j_..

o ·

/..J11rf'3:z_ ~ ..

I

<;

REPORT
u.s.c.
OF THE

LIBRARY AND . ARCHIVES
.dee. Jfo,'

.

AND G. SURVEY;

S0-3G-..s1

·

SUPERINTENDENT
.d_
OF THE

,:;
I;)

3

c~~

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
FOR THE

1/3
FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1893,

IN ':(WO

PARTS.'

PART II.

LI BAA RY

APPENDICES REL.A.TING TO THE METRO DS, DISCUSSIONS, .A.ND RESULTS OF 'fHE COAS'r AND GE~ fl)ETIC SURVEY.

uS
WASHINGTON:

N.0.A.A. Dept of Commerce

-

GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIOE,

18 95.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey
ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library, the Office of Coast Survey and the National Geodetic Survey. To view the original document please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or www.reference@nodc.noaa.gov.

LASON Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387 March 22, 2005

Blank page retained for pagination

U, 8. COAST AND GEODETIC St:RVEY REPORT FOR 1893.-PART II,
PREFATORY NOTE.

. Tho text of this Report for the fiscal yenr 1892 has been arranged for publication in;wo pa~ts, like that for t11e fiscal year preceding. n~t I, in quarto form, contains tllO historical portion, presenting reports of progress in the field and office operations of the S1uvey; estimates for future progress, a~d statements of expenditures during the fiscal year. Maps of general progress, and ~ etches showing locnlitios of field work, exhibit graphically the advance of the urvey to June 30, 1893, r rn~t II, it will be obser,·cd, is in octnvo, and includes the professional papers e ntmg to the met.hods, discussions, and results of the Survey which have been approved for publication duriug the year. Such illustrations as arc needed aooomPnny them.

t~pers, while tho quarto form appears to be domunde1l for the statistical matter and
~~ the ~uture distribution of tho Report, Part
. e progress skotehos.

The octavo form is more convenient and suitable for the scientific antl professional

Since the latter are of less general iuterest than tho former, II only will be sent, as it is believed at this Will inchulc nll that is generally desired, nntl in a much more compact and 00 nvcnic t f I n orm tlnu that of the old quarto. n special cases, where both parts are clesirnble, tl1ey will be sont. T. C. lllm·rnE:-<IIALL, Superintendent.
Ill

U. S. COAST AND GEODKTIC SURVEY RKPOUT FOR 1893.-PAl!T II.

TITLES OF APPENDICES.
Page.

No. 1.-State Jaws authorizi11g entrance upon lands within State limits for the purposes of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey.... 1-18 ~o. 2.-Heights from geodetic leveling between St. Louis and Jefferson City, Mo., 1882 and 1888 .·· ... ... ... ·..· ·. .... ... .. . .. . . .. .. ··. . 19-36 No. 3.-Phototopography us practiced in Italy and in tho Dominion of Can. a.du, with a brief historical review of other photographic surveys and publications on tho subject................................. 37-116 No. 4.-Photographic determinations of longitude by lunar distances ..·.· 117-124 No. 5.-0n tho measurement of base lines with steel tapes and with steel and brass wires ................................................ 125-164 No. 6.-Fundamontal standards of length and mass ....................... 165-172 No. 7.-Units of electrical measure ....................................... 173-176 No. 8.-.An historical account of the boundary lino between tho States of Pennsylvania and Delaware .................................... 177-222 No. 9.-ProceoJingR of tho Geodetic Conference held at Washington, D. C., January 9 to February 28, 1894 ................................. 223-424 No. 10.-Tho preparation and arrangement of the· exhibit of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey at the World's Columbian :Exposition, 1893 ..................................................... 425-439 No. 11.-0n tho variation of latitude at San Francisco, Cal., from observations ma.do in concert with tho International Geo.detic Association in 1891 and 1892 ................................................ 440-508 No. 12.-Doterminations of latitude, gravity, and the magnetic clements at stations in 1ho Hawaiian Islim(ls, including a result for tho mean density of tho earth . · . . . · · . .. . . .. . · · · .. .. · . . · · · . . .. . . . . . . .. · . . . 509-638
IV

U, S,

COAST A~D GEODt:TIC SURVEY RF:PORT 1-'0R 1893.-PART

II.

ILLUSTRATIONS.
Page.

No. 1.-Route line of geodetic le·eling between St. Louis and J eft'erson City, Mo.............................................................. No. 2.-Italian photogrammetrio apparatus................................. Canadian surveying camera....................... ...... ...... .... Caundian camera box 11ncl leveling tmpport.... ... ... .. .... ... . .. . .. No. 3.-Frouch photo-theodolite, t"·o vie"·s... ... .. .... .. .... .. . . . .. . ... ... . No. 4.-Spring balance for adjusting tension of wire during measurement... No. 5.-Profilo of old base at Stockholm, and connection of the old with the new............................................................. No. 6.-Warrnnt of William Penn for the surveys of 1701 .... .... .. .. . ...·.. No. 7.-PJat of the surveys of 1701.. .... .. .... ... ... .. .. ... ... .. . ... ....... No, 8.-Report of tho surve;1ors of 1701........ ... ...... ... .. . .. .... .... .... No. 9.-Plato illustrating tho surveys of Mason and Dixon and their immediate predecessors .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . No.10.-Sketch of the triangulation for the survey of tho new linens laid out in 1892.. · · · · . · · · · · .. · .. · .. · · · · . · · · .. .. · · · · .. · · · · · · .. · · · .. .. · · .. .. No.11.-Stat.e of the triangulation of the Gnited States...................... No.12.-Distribution of the principal aBtronomio stations occupied by the Unite<l States Coast and Geodetic Survey to January, 1894........ No.13.-Geuerul scheme of standard levelB for the United States............. No.14.-Arcs measured or projected within the limits of tho United States or close to its borders............................................... No.15.-Unitocl States poudnlum stations.................................... No.16.-Penclulum stations in Alaska........................................ No.17.-Pendulum stations in Europe....................................... ~o. 18.-Section qf observing tripod.... .. . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . · . . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .. No.19.-Improved appliances for precise leveling............................ No. 20.-Vnriation of latitude nt Sau Francisco, Cal., according to observation, No.

36 48 98
99

115 132
151

186
186 186

192 222 293 304 330 363 370 370 370 408 422 503 508

21.-Co~~~::;o;; -~f si;;;it~~~~~~· ~·;;i~tl~~; ·;~ i~ti t~d~ -~t. th;;~.~t~ti~~;,
1891-92...... . · · .. · .. · . .. .. · .. · .. · · · · .. .. .. .. · · · · . .. . .. . .. . . . . .. . .

0

v

APPENDIX No. 1-1898.

8TA1'E LAWS AUTHORIZING OFFICERS OF THE UNITED STATES COAST AJ:':lD GEODETIC SURVEY TO ENTER UPON LANDS WITIIIN ST.A.TE LIMITS FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE SL'HVEY.

LETTER OP TRANSMISSION. UN11·1m ST.A.TES Co.A.ST .A.ND GEODE'l.'IC SURVEY,

Washington, IJ. O., December 29, 1893. Sr'R: In accordance with your suggestion that it is desirable to have Published, as au ap11endix to the report for 18!l3, the laws of several of the States enacted for the protection of Coast Survey parties working therein, I have had the accompanying typewritten copies made, for the printer's use, of all such laws that we have auy record of in this ?filce. According to tbis record, laws l1ave been passed in the following nineteen States: California, Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, New Hamp. shire, New Jersey, Ohio, Orego11, Soi1th Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, 'Virginia, and "\\7 est Yirginia. In order to insure the accuracy of the manuscript copies of the laws on file in this oflicc, I took them over to the l1aw Library of Congress and comparcu them with the printed laws on file there. Finuing that they were incomplete and full of inaccuracies, I carefully corrected them, and from tlw corrected text Miss Hein then niaue typewritten copies. These I lia.ve carefully compared, and now E!ublllit them ('55 pages) as exact copies, following strictly the p_unctuation and capitalization of the priuted laws. Respectfully, yours, GEORGE A. F.AIRFIELD, Assistant in Clrn.r{le of Sta.te Surveys.

Dr. T. C.

llENDENIIALL,

Superintendent Coast and, Oeodetic S1irvey.
S. Ex. 19, pt. 2-1

STATE J,AWS
JIUJt. TJIH.

PROTECTION OF COAST SURVEY PAHTIES.

CALIFORNIA.
CiIAl'TEU

LXXY.

An .Act to authorizo 11orsone engaged ln tho Unito<l Slatoe Const 8ur\'oy, upon tho Const ot' Cnlifornin, to enter on lands within thle Stato, for tho purpose of eaitl Sur\'Uy i to protect tho opt·ratlrm· of tho
eomo from injury null 1nolostntio11; to
ruu:t~rtain

tho rnodo of osHessini;: damages cnused t.o ouy 11rop·

crty ln. tho progress of tho sumo, an<l to pro\·ido for tho punishment of olfondo1·s against tho pro·
visions of this Act, aud fur other pnrJJ08cH.

Tito People of the State of Califor11ia, rcprcsentr:d i11 Senate a11d Assembiy, do c11act as follows: SI>C. 1. That from nml after tho passing of thie Act, any and every i1crson cm1iloyed uudcr and by Yirtuo of nu A ct of Cougresa of tho United States, p!lliijCd tho tenth

day of Fobrunry, one thousand eight hundred nnd seven, nn<l tho eupplemcnts tliereto concerning the United States Con.et Sun·ey, may enter npon Lands und clear nm\ cut the timber, within thi8 State, upon tho sumo, and ruuy erect uny works, lrniidings, or appendages requisite for tho purpoHo of oxploring, Hnn'eying, triangu· lation, leveling, or doing any other act re<111isito to effect the object of said Act of Congress, without being considered us a trespnsser: 1'1·ovirled, 110 unnecessary injury be done thereto. SEC. 2. That if tho parties interested-namely, pnrt.y or parties roprcsoJJting t.he Government of tho United States Const Survey on tho Const o'f California, and the owm·rs or possessors, of tho Land so entere<l u11011, 1111d to which damngc may l.111vo been dono-cm1not agree togetlwr upon the amount to be paid for the dumagos caused by doing uny of tho nets aforceaid, either of them 11Jay compruin, in ii snm· niary manner, to the nearest Justice of the Peace for the District of tho County where the damages may have been committed, who shall ussociate with himself two dieintorestcd freeholders of tho suid County, ono to IJe unmed by ouch party iut.er· (·f!tc1l, who shall, upon hearing the purtios, nud with or without view of tho premises, us they may determine, i1rocced to usses8 and nwurd any damngei; which ml\y have nccrnctl to the ownors or posse.ssorH of tho Land so ontcrotl upon: l'ro1·i11cd, uevcr· t lwlcss, that tho party eompluiniug ns, nforcsu.i1l, slrnll sorvo upon the oppo11itc pu.rt.Y intcrnstctl, ten days notico, in writing, of the time nml pluc!l whore said compluiut is to bu heard, nml the name of tho frochold<·r hy him solocted. 8gc, 3. Thnt tho said magistrate and frooholclurs shall, without unreasonable delny, filo in the Office of the Clerk of tho County Court of the Conn ty where the saitl complaint may have been heart!, n roport of their 11roccetli11gs, which report shall ho conclusive against tho parties, uncl ho c\·idonce of their assent to the same; unless either of them shall, within ten days after filing of the said report, file a general or special objection to tho Baine in tho office of tho suid Clerk, of which tho other party 2

REPOHT FOR 1893-PART II.

3

~nll havo notico; wh.,ronpon nu issue shall be made up a.nil a triul liad nt tho next i·m of tho County Court of saiil County, in tho sumo mn.unor iu which civil casos nre t 101 · l ' · tl ~ ; cxropt that tho j1ulgmo11t shall bo rondorml and the <lamages assessed at. 10 1lrst term. 81·:c. 4. That nny porHon so entering upon Land, U8 ufurosn.i<l, for .tho purposes aforesaid, may tendor to tho party injured Hnfflciont nmonds for uny damages dono 1 ; 11on snid Lan<l; and if, upon examination boforo tho .Justice of tho Poace and freololtlere us aforosnitl, or upon trial lrnfore the County Court, tho danmgos finally ~~essed shall not oxceod tho amount so temlorod, tho porson who has so entered and enileretl tho amount, shrill rocov11r his co8tB. Si~c. &. That tho Justices of tho l'ouco and l'reoholdors aforesaid, upon compht.iut ~~clo to them ns nforosaid, nnd decision given, shall rocoiYo tho sn.mo costs to wl1ieh, ~ lu.w, .lust ices of tho Peaco nro ontitlo1l in a. ciYil cu so from s11111mons to .i udgmont; ~~d upon tlrn trial in tho County Court tho costs shall' 110 taxe<l by analogy to tho 1 11 of Costs i 11 liai<l Conrt, ostablishml by l!Lw. 81 ·:c. G. That if any ]Hlrson or persons shnll wilfully or wantonly inJuro, 1lofnce, or remove any instrument, Rigual, monnmcut; building, or nny appe111lnge thereto, usocl 0 ; constructed in tho State of California, under nud l1y virtue of tllo Act of Congross ~ orosnid, 110 lltHl thoy shall bo liablo to indictment for tho same, under this Statute, tor oach nnd every ofi'once, uucl upon conviction, shall bo sontonced t.o pay 1t fino of dwo hnn<lrod clollurs, one-half of wllich shall go to tho prosecutor, nncl tho romain;r shall bo npproprintecl according to tho Laws of this State rogulnting tho disposal 0 snch fincH, or shnll ho imprisoned not more thnn 0110 mouth, or both, at tho dls~· ion of tho Court liofore which Ruch couviction sl1all t:iko 11lu.ce, nud ho aud they 81 111 11 also bo liuhlo for ull clnmu·,os sust·iincd h\· tho Unitticl Stato8 of Amerion, bv ~u a · ~ ti son of nu~· such injury, dofn.cemont, or romovnl; to be reco\·orod by action on IO C!IHO in U C f · · 1' · S ny ourt o competnut .1nns1 1ct1011. llU. 7. This Act shall take effect fro111 and uftor it8 }>UBSUl.\'O Approved April 2, 1852.

.

CONNECTICUT.
CllAl'Tlrn XI.
An Acc. re luting to tho Survoy of the Coast of Gounootiout.

Ucmtwal .tlssen1bly eonnoned: p r.:c. 1. Persons employccl under nn act of tho Congress of the United States, 11.ssed tho t.cnt.11 tlrw of Fobrnur·· in tho yonr oi"hfocn hundred uud sovcn, nud the supple " "' · "' ll mouts thereto, mity enter uponlnnds within this stnto, for uuy ]lllrl!Oso whirh bla'yl ~o neccxsury to offoct tho objects of sai1l net, anll may oroct works, 11tntious, u1 . . . S.dmgs ' or appcn d ngos for thnt purposo, d omg 110 unnccossary lllJlll'Y· a EC. 2· If tho partiet1 interostoil cannot agroo npon tho amount to bo }mid for <lame ges ca~ised therohy, oithor of them may petition tho county commissiouor" of tho bonut.y 111 Which tl10 l11n111ics, who 1:1hal1 appoint a timo for a houring, ns soon ns may '\V~~~nd ord?r 1tt loust fonrtocn tlay8' uotico to all perso11:i interested, and, with or b·~t out a Ylow of tho promises, as they may detorminc, hoar the parties nnd their nl llessos a.nil nsset18 tho da111a.gos. 8 co ICC. 3. Tho county co111111issio11ors Hlrnll liln i11 t.ho oflltio of tho clerk of the 1mperior sh~; \0 f the eo1~uty iu which tho l!mcl is situntml, n rqiort of thnir doings, which of .~e conolus1vo, unless 0110 of tho purtios 11hall, witllin thirty tlays nfter tho filing riosuc report, filo u i>otition to said court for i111ow hoariug to lie hn1l in such supetb r co~rt; iu which case, after sncl.J uotice ofsuoh J>etitiou to tho opposite party ns th: saiu sup~rior court, if in session, or, if in vacation, ns any jmlgo thereof or of supremo court, or any county commissioner of tho county in which such 11etition

~e it enaotecl l1y tlto Senate ancl Jfouso of Rep1·esr.ntati1ic8 in

1

4

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

is pending, shall direct, n. trial shall be had in said court, in tho sanw mnunor as other civil action!! are tried, and such hen.ring shall take precedence of all other civil actions. S1~c. 4. The person so entering upon lancl may tender to tho pnrty injured amends therefor; aml if the damn.gos finally assessed do not exceo<l tho amount tondorocl, tho person entering shall recover col!ts; otherwise, tho Jlreviiiliug party shnll recover costs. SEC. 5. Tho costs to bo tn.xecl and allowed in nil such cases, eithnr bllforo t.he county commissioners or the superior court, !!hall be tho same us uro ordinarily taxed, according to tho rules au<l pructico in tho superior court. Sxc. 6. 'Vhoovor wilfully injures, defaces or removes any Aignul, monument, building or app1111dago thereto, eroctocl, used or constructed, under said n.cts of CongresR, shall forfeit tho sum of fiftv dollars for each offense; uncl shall be linhlo for dumagcll sustained by the United Stutes, to be recovered in an action of tort. Approved June 5th, 1861.

GEORGIA.
[From "The Co<l11of the State of GeorgiB, 1882."]

l'ai·t I-Title I-Chaptel' I.

ARTICLE Ill. COAST
SlJHVEY.

[Act of 1847, Code, p. 155.
~ 23. (23.) (25.) Co<L11t surveyol'B.-;Any person employed under the Act of the Congress of the United States, providing for a survey of the coust11, mny outer upon lands o.n<l clear or cut timber within this Sta.to upou the same, for nny purpose legit.imately connected with, nnd roq11isite to effect, the ~aid object: J'l"Ovided, no unnecessary injury be done thereby, au cl. all daruugoll to the owner of tho land be 1>roruptly pa ill.

[Act of 1847, Cude, p. 155.]

. ~ 24. (24.) (26.) Damage to land-ownors.-If the parties representing the Government of tho United States, and tho owner or possessor of the land so entered. upon, cannot agree upon the amount to be paid for so.id damages, either pnrty mny complain in a summary manner to tho nearest .Justice of tho Ponce of tho county in which the land lies, who Rhall associate with him two disiutereskd freeholders of the county-one to be named by each 11arty interested-who shall, upon Iieariug the parties, and with or without view of the premiReR, us thoy may determine, proceed to assess and a.ward tho damages, if nny: l'ruvidc<l, the 1mrty complaining llhall gh·e tho opposite 1mrty ten days' notice, in writing, of tho time and place when and where said complaint is to be ]ward, aml tho name of tho froehol<lor by him ·rnleeted.
[A<·.t of 1847, C<~h·, JI· 15U.J

~ 25. (25.) (27.) A.wal'd and ubjcctio11s thel'etu.-Tho snito. assessors, witho11t unreusonablo delay, shall file tlwir award in tho office of t!Jo Onli1mry of tho county, which shall bo concln!!h·o upon both parties, unless objections aro filoil to the su.mo within ten do.yR ofter tho filing of tho award. If objections. nro lllotl, tho otbor party slmll have written notice; whereupon an iRsue sh nil ho mndo anil tried at the 1in1t terUl thereafter of au.id Court, under the snmo rule!! U.I! other ci vii cnses.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
(Act of 1847, Code, p. 156.]

5

§ 26. (26.) (28.) DamageB, tender of.-Tho person so mitering upon lands may tender

such amount a!I ho chooses for tho damage dono, and if the damages finally ussossed ehuU uot exceed the sum tendered, the party complaining shall puy all costs.
[Act of 1847, Code, p. 156.)

: 27. (~7.) (29.) CoBtB.-The costs before an Ordinary shall be the samo as arc a1 owed in civil cases iu said Court!!.

Part IV-Titlo 1-DiviBion XII.
[(a) Acts of 1865-ll, l" 233.)

f ~ 4619. (4529.) (-1483.) I11j1wicB to coaBt Bu1·t·ey jixtui·eB.-Any person who shall willnlly or wantonly injure, defoco or remove nny signal, monument, building, or any other appendage thereto, erected within this State by virtue of any Act of Congress ~Uthorizing a coast survey, shall bo guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction, shall be punished as prescribed in section 4310 of this Code.] (a)

Part IV-Title 1-DiviB-ion Ill. 4 f § 310. (4245.) (4209.) Pu11ishme11t of acccBB01·ies aftc1· thcfact.-Aocessoriee atter the act, except where it is otherwise ordered in this Code, shall be punishetl by a tine ~ot to exceed one thousand dollars, imprisonment not to excee<l six months, to work ~~tho chain-gang on tho public works, or on suoh other works ILS tho county authori~~s may employ tho chain-gang, not to exceed twelve mouths, and any one or more 0 these }lunishmonts may be ordered in the discretion of tho Judge: Pro1·ided, that nothing herein contaiuecl slmll authorize tho giving tho control of convicts to l>riVato ~crsons, or their employment by tho county nuthoritioe in snch meohauiOal PfUI'l!uits as will bring tho products of their labor into competition with the products 0 free labor.

ILLINOIS.
SUHVEY.
UNIT·:D
STATl~B

COAST A.Sl> lllWDETIC SUltYRY ·

.A.n Act relating to tho operation& of tho Uultod Statos coast anrl geo1letlo survey. SECTION 1. Be it enaoted by the Peoplo of tho StatO of Illi11ois 1 1·ep1·esented in the Gen-

:a! Assembly, ·rhat any person employed under o.ncl by virtue ot' 0.11 not of congress dr ho United Stntos, approved tho tent.h day of :February, 0110 thousand eight hunl' eel and seven, and of the supplements t.bereto, for tho survey of tho coasts of the b ~ited States,~ or, uucler tho dirootion of congress, to form a geodetic connection e ween the Atlantic o.nd Pacilio co1Lets, u.ud to fnTnish triangnlntiou points for state su;ve~s, Inay enter upou lan1ls within this state, for tho purpose of exploring, triaufi ating, leveling, sun·oyiug, o.nd of doinO' o.ny other a.ct which may be necessary 0 a: ~urry out the object of said laws, 1mcl rnay erect any works, stations, buildings ~ nppendn.ges roqnisito for that purpose, doing no unnocossary injury thereby. 2 · If the parties interested cannot agree upon tho amount to be paid for do.ma a~es ca~ised thereby the Uuito<l States of Amorico. may proceed to condemn snid laud, o.pprovided by'' An act to provide for tho exercise of the right of eminent domam," proved AP ri·1 10 , 1872, 111 · force ,July · 1, 1872. ~ 3 bu ld' 1f any person shall wilfully deface, injure or remove any signal, monument, et~ or other property of the United States coast and geodetic survey, cone d or used undor or by virtue of tile u.ct of congress Qforesuid, he shall forfoit

:g,

6

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

a sum not exceeding fifty dollars for oach offense, and shall bo liable for dumnges sustained by tho Umte<l Stute1:1, in au action 01i the cnso in uuy court of compettmt jurisdiction. Approved April 21, 1881.

INDIANA.
C11AI'Tlm XCV.
An .A.ct relating to tho oporationH of tho United Stutes CouRt and fiuoclotlc Hun·uy in tho 8tato ot' I1ulin.un, ancl dcclu.ring- uu cmer.L{cucy.

SECTION 1. Be it enact"d by the Ge11e1·al Assembly of the Sta to of lndia11a, That any person employed under and by virtue of nu act ot' Cougress of the l:uited States, pa.seed the tenth day of February, ono thonsancl eight hundred and Hevon, and of the supplements thereto, for the survey of tho coaots of tho United States, or nuder the direction of Congress, to form a geodetic connection between tho Atlantic and Pacific coasts, and to furnish t.riaugulation points for State surve.vs, may outer upon lands within this State for tho purposo of exploring, trlaugulnting, leveling, surveying and tloiug any otller act whi'ch may bo ucccssury to c1trry out tho objects of said laws, und may erect any works, stations, 1mildi11g>1 and a11peudagos requisite for thnt pur11oso, doing 110 unuccesM1.ry injury thereby. SEC. 2. If tho parties interei;tod can not ngreo upou the amount to be paid for damages causell thereby, eit.her of tllllm may petition tho Circuit Court in the county in which tho land is situated, which Court·shull uppo~nt a time for a hearing ns soon as may bo, a1Hl orden1.t least fourteen days uotico to be given to all parties interested and with or without a view of tho premises, as tho Court may clctermino, hear the parties nud their witnesses and usscss damagoij, SEC. 3. The person so entering upon lnn<l, muy tender to tho party injured, nmonds therefor, nrnl if, in ease of appcel to tho Circuit Court, tho damages finally assessed do not exceed tl10 amount tendered, the porsou entering shall recover costs, otherwise the prevailing party shall recover costs. SEC. 4. Tho costs to be alloweU: in all such cases Hhnll lie· tho same ns allowed according to rules by tho Court. SEC. 5. If nuy person shall wilfully dofnco, injure, or remove, nny signal, monument, building, or other property of tho Unlfocl States eoai;t survey, constructed, or usod under or by virtue of tho acts of Cougross, aforesaid, ho shall forfeit a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, for oach offense, and shall he liable for damages snstninod by tho United Stutes in consequence of such defacing, injury, or removal, to be recovered in an action on tile cuse in any Court of oom!Jotcnt jurisdiction. SEC. 6. Whereas un omorgoncy exists fol' the immediate taking effect of this act, therefore, the same,shnll take effect and bo in foroo from and after its passage. Approved April 9, 1891.

STATE OP MAINE. CIIAPTim 181.
An .A.ct rolatlng to tho enncy of tho coast of Maino.

Be it e11acted b]I the Senato and House of Rcp1·obc11tatives in Legislat1o·c assembled, as follows: SECTION 1. Any person employed under and by virtue of nu net of tile congress of the United States, puasecl tho ton th day of February, one thousn111l eight lmndred aud seven, and the supplements thereto, may outer upon lands within thill stnte for

REPOR'T FOR 1803-PART It.
tho purpose of exploring, sun·o~·ing, triangulating, leveling nnd cloing nny other act which mnr bo necossury to effect the objccfa of said uct, nnd may erect nny works, stations, buildings or nppcnclages, re<1ui~ite for thnt purpose, doing no unnecessary injury thereby. SECT. 2. If tho parties interested cannot agree n11on tho amount to bo i1aid for tho damages caused by doing uny of the nets nforosai<l, either of them muy p'ctition the commissioners of tho county in which tho land ontoreil npon is Nituatod, to hour the parties nn<l assess nny damage.~, which in the opinion of tho commissioners has nccruml to tho ownor or possessor of tho land so entered upon. SECT, 3. Tho commissionorA as soon as may ho, Ahn.Il hear tho parties either with or without a view of the promises, us tho commissioners shall determine, and before auy hearing shull 1Hl had, shall order notice to bo given to all persons intorosted, at least fonrteon days heforo the timo of hearing. Sl(CT. 4. Tllo commissioners shall filo in tho office of the clork of tl10 district court for snid county, a report of these doings, which report shall 110 conclusive upon the Jinrtfos unless one of them t1hnll lilo within thirty days nftcr tho term of said court, Which Hhn.lJ bo ho]u noxt aftor saiu report tshull lrn filo<l, 11. petition to tho sniu court that a trinl t1hnll bo h:ul in tho cnse in said court, uud nfter notice to the opposite }1arty n t.rial shall bo hnd in said court in tho sumo mn.nnc1· in which other ()ivll cases are tbero trie<l. SF.CT. 5. Tho person so entering upon lmul as uforosnid, may tender to the party inJured sufllciont n11101Hls therefor, und if tho dmnngcH finally nsHossotl shall not exce~il tho mnonnt RO tonclored, the person so ontering ~hall rocovor his costs, 11ncl in all other cases tho prey1iilin~ pnrty shall recover his costs. S1~cT. G. In tho taxation and allowance of costs in tho district court upon n trial of tho cnso, tho proceo11ings of tho so.ill court shall hold tho snmo relation to the report of tl10 commi!!sioners, ns procoo<liug-s of the samo court hold to j llllgmonts of justices of tho pence, in cases of nppoul from snid jn<lgmonts, and tho costs shall be taxed nccordingly. S&c·r. 7. If any 11orson sha11 wilfully injure, <lofnco, or removo n.ny signal, moun1ne11t., building, or nny a11pondngo thereto, usod urnl constructed under nnd by virtuo of tho net of congress aforosnitl, 110 shall forfeit 11 snm not oxcooding fifty dol111rs for ench olfonso, to bo recovered by indictment for tho nso of tho person prosecuting, Dnd shall also bo liable for all uamni.:os Hnstnino<l by the United States of Aruericn., to bo reoovero<l in nu uction on tho cnRo in nny conrt of compot.ont jurieiliotion. S1r.cT. 8. This net shall tako effect from antl after its approval by tho Govcmor· .Approvetl Juno rn, 1846.
AMENDMENT.

CHAl'Tmt 125.
A,n .A.ct to Bm11u1l tho sooo111\ ohu\lt"r of tho rovleou ·tntutos, rolntlng tu tho ounet eurvey.

Bo it enaote.1l by the Senate an<l House of Ropre.sontativcs, in Legislatu1·e assemble1l, a8 follows:

S1~cpo:-. 1. Tho second chap tor of tho roviRod statutes is hereby amomlod by striking out tho eight.h section thereof, nrnl inserting instead the following, viz: S:reci'. 8. Tho person so entering upon lnntl, may tender to tho party injured snfficieut anumds therefor, and if tho damages finally nssessotl do not oxcectl tho tender, judgment shull be ron<lerocl ng-ninst the ownor for costs. Tho costs l'CCO\"tll'ed by tho Prevniling party ijhull bo tnxoll ns in cnso of appo1il from tho judgment of B justice of the pouco, SRCT. 2. This act shall t11ko offeot whon approved by tho govoruor. Approved J11n111iry 27, 1860.,

8

U. S. COAS'r .A.ND G'EODE'rIC SURVEY.
MARYLAND .
.A.n Act conc<>l'nlng the Su:rvoy of the Const of MRryl1md.

SECTION 1. Bv it enacted by the Gcnctal ABBcmlJTy of llfaryland, Tbut it shall and may bo lawful for nny person or persons. employed under aud by virtue of :m net of tho Congi·css of the United States, passed the tenth of February in the year eighteen hunclred ancl se,·eu, aucl of the supplement thereto, ut any time hereafter to enter upon lands within this Sta.to for tho pm-pose of exploring, surveying, triangulating or levelling or doing any other mutter or thing which may bo necessary to affect the objects of said act, and to erect any works, stations, buildings or appendages requisite for that purpose, doing no unuecossaYy itijury to private or other property. SEC. 2. Ancl be it enacted, That in case the per~on or persons employed under the act of congress aforesaid, cannot agree with the owners or possessors of tho land so entered upon and used as to tho amount of damage done thereto by reason of the removal of fences, cutting of trees or injury to tho crop or crops growing on the same, it shall and may be lawful for tho said parties or either of them to apply to tho chief justice for tho timo being or ouo of the associrito judges of tho jndiciul district in which such land may be situated, who shall thereupon appoint three tlisintereeted and judicious freeholders, residents of tho 11amo judicial district, to proceed with us much despatch ns 1>ossible to tho examination of the nuittor in question, and the faithful aseessmm1t of tho damages snstainetl by tho owners or po11ses11or!! aforesaid, and the said freeholders or 11 wajority of them, having first takou and subscribed an oath or n.ffirmation before tho chief or associuto just.ice aforesaid or other iier11ou dnly authorized to administer tho same, that t11ey woll nnd truly examine an1l assess as aforesaid, and having given five days notice to both parties of tho time of their meeting, shall proceed to tho spot, and then nnd there upon their own view nnd if required upon tho evitlenco of wit!lcdses, (to be by them sworn or 11ffirn1od 1uul examined) 11hall assess the sl\hl \lan\ages, :i-ml sh:\ll afterwatds make -report tlrnreof nnd of their proceedings in writing under their hauds and seals and filo tho same within five days thereafter in tho ofilce of the clerk of tho county in which the land aforesaid is situated, subject to an 11ppeal by either party to tho county c011rt of tho 1mid county within ten <lays after filing as 11fore·said, arnl the suid report so mo.do as aforesaid, if no appeal as aforesaid be taken, shall be held to bo final and conclnsivo n.s between the saicl. parties, and the amount so nssosso1l alill reported shall be paid to the suid owners or possessors of t.ho 111.nd so do.magetl within twenty cl:iys after tho .filing of said report, aud tho said chief or associate justice us aforcMaid, Hhall have authority to tax and allow upon the tiling of said report, suoh costs, fees and expenses to the said freeholdeTB for tho peTfo1·m1mce of their duty as he shall think equitable and jm1t, which a!Iowaneo shall be paid by tho poraon or persons employed under tho net of congress aforesaid, within tho timo lust above limited, but if an appeal as aforesaid be takeu, tho caso shall bo set down for hearing at tho first term of county court aforesaid, ensuing u11ou and aftor said appeal, and it shall be lawful for either party immediately after tho entry of such appeal, to take ont summons for such witneS!!eB as may be necessary to bo examined upon tho hearing aforesaid, and the said court shall ho.vo power in its discretion to award costs 11gnin11t wliich ever the frnal judgment shall ho ent.orod, and such appeal ut tho option of either party may anu shall be hearu boforo and tho clamage11 assesse1l hy 11 jury of twelve niou to bo taken from tho regnlnr pannel am1 elecbid as in otho-r cases. Sic. 3· .111id be it enacted, That if any person or -persons shnll wilfully injure or deface or rewove any signal, roomuneut or buildiug or any appoudago thereto, erected, used or constructed uncler and by virtue of tho act of congress nforosuiil, such !>Creon or pereoue eo offending sho.ll severally forfeit 11.ml pt\y the sum of fifty dollars, with costs of suit to bo sued for and recovered by any person who sho.U first prosecute tho same boforo uuy justice of the peace of tlie county where tho person so

wm

REPORT FOR 1893-PA.R'l' JI.

9

Offend' mg· may reside, and shall also be liable to pay tho amount of damages thereby sustained, to be recovered with costs of suit in an notion on the case, in t~e nnme a~d for tho use of tho United States of Amol'ica in any court of competent jurisictiou. ·

d

Passed March 9, 1842.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
CIIAPTElt

192.

Au Act relating to the Survey of tho Const of Mnssnohusetts.

air~ebit 6tlacted

hy the Senate and House of Rep1·esentatit1es, in General Cou1·t astembled,

S Y the authority of the same, as follows: lJ _F:cT, 1. Any person employed under and by virtue of an act of the Congress of tho lllted States, passed the tenth day of February, in the year eighteen hundred and 8 peven, and the supplement thereto, may onter upon lands within this Sta.to, for the. ,::pose of exploring, surveying, triuugulating, levelling, or doing any other net st ~?h may be necessary to effect the objoets of said act, and'ruay erect any works, iu~ Ions, buildings or appendages, requisite for that purpose, doing no unnecessary Jury thereby daSF.cT. 2. Iftbe purties interest-0d cannot agree upon the amount to be paid for the th inages caused by doing auy of tho acts aforesaid, either of thelll mny petition the comi~iiHsioners of the county in which the land entered upon is situated, to bear 6 ac parties and assess any damages which, in tho opinion of the commissioners, hns ~rued to the owner or possessor of tho land so entered upon. or F:~T, 3. The commissiou~rs, us soon as may be, shall henr the parties either with an W~tho'.it a view of .tho promises, as the commissioners shall determine, and before lei! enrmg shall be bun, shull order notice to be given to all persons interested, at St fourteen clays before the time of hearing. lllo ~:c·r. 4. The corumissiouors shall file in the office of tho clerk of'. the court of com11 up pleas for said county, a report of their doings, which report shnU be conclusive Bai~n the purtios, unless one of thorn shall file, within thirty du.ye after the term of said 0011 rt, which shall bo held next after said report shall be filed, a petition to tho opp c_ourt, that n trial be hnd in th.i ouso in said oonrt; and after notice to the civ·~site party, a trial shall lie had in suid court, in tho same mnnuer in which other 1 c. cases aro there tried. ·~ll:CT 5 Th . iuj · · o person so entermg 11pon land as aforesaid, may tell(ler to the party Urod suffl ciont ' · the damages tmally · eitcee<l, amends therefor, and 1f assessed shall _not in au be nmonnt so tondtired, the 1wrson so entering shall recover his costs; an1l, SF. other cases, the prevailing party shall recover his costs. a tr:cr 6· In the taxutiou and allowance of costs in tho court of common pleas, upon the ~a of the c'asc, the proceedings of tho said court shall hold tho same relntion to of juop_ort of the commissioners, as proceedings of the same court hold to judgments bet stices of the peace, in cases of appeal from said judgments, and the costs shall SF.axed accordingly. !Dente~:: I_f any person shall wilfully in,iuro, deface or remove any slgna.l, monuVirt ' iltling, or any nppendnge thereto erected, used or constructed under and by eacbue ~f tho uct of Congress nforesaid, ho shall forfeit the sum of fifty dollars for and 8 ~ l~nco, to bo recovered by indictment, to tho use of the person prosecuting; to be a. also be liable for all damages sustnine1l by the United States of Amerioa, Sl!:c~e~overo_d in an action on tho case, in nny court of competent jurisdiction . .A. · · This act shall tn.ke effect from and after its paHRage. PProved by tho Governor, ,March 25, 1845.

t

10

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
MINNESOTA. CllAPTE!t 60.
[S. I<'. No. 210.]

An Act to pro,·i<lo for surveys nnthorlzct! hy Congre·s of the "C'11lto1l Stnt,,s In the 8tnto of MinnrRota.

SECTION

Be it enacted by the Legislatitrc of the State of llliimesota: 1. Any person ewployOll in the execution of any snrvry authorized by

the congress of tho Unitotl Stutes may outer npou lands within this state for the purpose of exploring, tri11ugul11tiug 1 leveling, sun·eying, arnl of cloi11g any work which may be ncceHsury to carry out the objects of then existing lllwR relative to surveys, and may establish permanent station JU arks, and erect the necessary signals and temporary observatories, doing no unueccssary injury the1;eby. SEC. 2. If tho parties interested cannot agree upon the amonnt to be paid for daurnges caused thereby, either of them may petition the district conrt in the county in which the lnml is situated, which court shall a11point a tirno for IL hearing as soon as may be, and order at least twenty (20) clay11 1 notice to be given to all parties interested, ancl, with or without a view of the premises, as the court may determine, hear the purties and their witnesses and assess damages. Site. 3. 'l'he person so entering upon Janel may tender to the injured party damages therefor, and if, in case of petition or complaint to the court, the clnmuges finally aKsesscd do not exceccl tho mnonnt tendorecl, thll person ontering shall recover costs; oth11rwiso 1 tho provailing party shall recover costs. SEC. 4. The costs to lJc allowed in all snch cuses shall be the sumo as allowocl according to the rules of tho court, and provisions of law relating thereto. SRC. 5. If any person shall wilfully defaco, injure or remove any signal, monument, building or othor property of tho U. 8. coust nncl gcocletic Bltr\·ey, eonstructecl or used under or by virtno of tho act of congress aforesaid, ho shall forfeit u sum not exceccling fifty (50) clollarH for oach offon~o, anti shn.Jl be liable for clnmagcs sustaiaecl by the. Unitocl Stutes in conse<Jucmce of BllCJh tlofociug,· injury or removal, to be recovered in IL civil actiou in any CJourt. of competent jnristliction, S1~c. 6. This net shall tuko offect from and after it8 passage. Approved April 21 1889.

MISSOURI.
GEODJo:'flC SlJltVEY.

An Act to pro.,.iclo for tho prowction of cltlzcnH of tho St11to of MIBRourl, tho intorosts of the "C'nlted St.ates, nllll porenn!i ongagccl in tho trluugulntion of tho Stuto ot' l\1iHH011rt un<lor nn not of Cou;,rrcas to form n goo1letlc connoc tiuu hotweon tho Atlnntic n111l Pnclflc Const·.
1

Be itenactecl by the Gc11eral AsRonibly of the State of MiBBom·i, asfo/1011·8: 1. Persons emplo~·ed under an Act of Congre~s of the United Stutes, passocl tlJtJ tenth day of February, 1807, and the supplement thereto, mny, upon muk·
SECTION

ing satisfactory arnonds, enter upon la11dt1 within this State for any purpo!!o which may be necessary to effect tho object of saill act, uud may 'or«ct works, stations, buildings or appo11daget1 for that purpoRe, tloing no uunecessnry injury. SECTION 2. If the parties interested cunuot agree upon the nmouut to be paid for damages cnnsed thereby, either of them may petition the County Conrt iu the countY in which the land is situated, which court shall appoint a time for a hearing as sooll as may be, and orcler at least fourteen days' notice to be given to all prrsons inter· ested, untl, with or without u view of t;bo premises, as the Court may determine, heat the p!l,rties nntl their witnesses und us11ess clanmges.

REPORT l!'OR 1893-PART II.

11

SECTION 3. Tho person so 1,1itering upon land may tender to the party injurc<l amends therefor, nrnl ii~ in. en.so o{ uppenl to t110 county court, tho dam11gos 1innlly llSHessed do not exceed the amouO:t tendered, tho iierson ontoring shall recover costs; otherwise tho provniling purty shall recover emits. SECTION -1. The cost~ to lie allowed in all such easel! Hhall ho tho Ramo !lB nllowod according to tho rules l.Jy the circuit court. SECTION 5. Whosoever wilfi1lly injures, defaces or removes any signal, monument, l.Juilding or appeudagn thereto, orectod, used or constructed under said nets of Congress, Rhall forfeit n s111n not oxcootliug fifty dollars for each such offence, and shall he linhlo for damngcs sust1Lined hy the United States in consoquenco of such injuring, defacing or removing, to lie recovered in an action before the circuit court of tho county in which 11nch offense is committed. SECTION 6. Any p1Lrty to tho iiroceoding urnlor the provisions of this act, who may feel aggrieved liy tho decision of any county court, may take an nppenl to tho circuit court, in tho same torm, in tho same manner, and with liko effect, ns in other Pror.oedings in tho county courts of this Sta.to; l'rovidcd, thnt no appeal herein provided for 11hal11>revent the continuation of the work referred to in this aot. Sxcnox 7. This act to take effect allll bo in force from and after itt1 p!LBsage . .Approved March 9, 1872.

STATE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
CnAl'Tltlt

3H7.

.An Act. rt-latiug to tho Hun·uy of the coaKt·of New lla.mpshiro.

tho purpose of 11xploriug, ~urvoying, trinngnlating, levelling, or doing 1111y other act Which may bo 11,ocessary to effect the ob,iocts of sai<l acts, awl mu~· orect any '" 0 rks, buildings, stations or nppcutlagcs roq uisito for that purpose, dging 110 unnecessary llnmago thereby. d S1~c. 2. If tho parties interested cannot agree upon the amount to bo 1>aid for tho amagos caused by tloi11g u11y of tho aots aforesaid, either of them nm~' petition tho ~ourt of common pleas for the county in which tho Inud ontoretl upon is 11ituated, ~r au m1sessmt·nt 1·f saill damages, who shall refer tho same· to tho road commi11810ners for su~h county, who shall hear the parties und mako report, as in the co.so of nsseseing dnmngee for lnud taken for highwnys, upon which the court shall rondor Judgment as in other cnses: l'roi:idcd, that either of the pnrtios <lis1mtMled with the ~mount of damages 1m assessed mny appeal to the court of common pleas 11ext to be d Olden in said county and 11ot o.fterwurds, nnd thereupon said eourt shall assoes the nmnge11 of encl1 party by 1t jury . . ~Ee, 3. Tho person so entering upon lnnd as aforesnicl may tender to the.party lll,Jnred euftioio11t ameuds thorofor; and if tho damages li11allv assessed shall not ~ltceed the amount so tendered, tho person so entering slmll re~ovor his costs, and n u.11 cu.sos tho purty prevailing sh1tll rocovcr his costll. n:i:v.c. 4. _If_nny }lOrs?n shall wilfully defnel·, injure or remove any signals, monuof nts, bu1ldmgR, or any appendage thereto, usetl or construoted under an1l by virtue ott the nets of congress aforesaid, ho shall forfeit tho sum of fifty dollars for enoh al encc, to be recovere1l hy indiotmout to tlio use of the party 11rosecuting, and shall ersol 0 liable for ull dam11ges sustained by the Cnited States of A morion, to lie reoov;~ in nu notion on tho onso in any court of competent jurisdiction. c. 5. This act shall take effect from anti nfter its p&.11sage . .At>proved, June 30, 1846.

SF:CTIO~ 1. Bo -it 1maotctl by t/w Senate a1Hl House of llep1·esc11tativcs in Genei·al Court conve11e1/, '!'hat any person employed under nnd liy virtue of au act of the congress Of the United Stutes, passed the 10th uo,v of l·'c-liruary, one thousand eight hun<lre<l nnu seven, anti tho ~upplomcuts thereto, may outer upon lauds within this state for

?

12

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC RURVEY.
CHA1'1'ER XXIX.

An Act lu co-operation with tho Uuiwd State· Const

~urvoy,

In ll10 tri1111gulutio11 of the Stnte.

Be it enacted by Ille Senate anrl Ho11se of llep1·eaentatives ii~ General Court convened: SECTION' 1. 'The acting assistant, in charge of tho triangulation uow being carried

on in this state by the Unite<l States coa8t survey, is hero by authorized to sot such signals as may be necessary to render this survey complete, anll of tho greatest service and benefit for future use in tho construction of a mup of the state, at an expense not exceecling twenty dollars in any town or city of the state, and to clraw upon the state treasurer for the 11ums so t<xpcntletl. SECT. 2. Tho state treasurer is hernhy clirectecl to pay out of any mouey in the treasury such expensc,s as may bo i11currod in carr)· ing out tho object named in the preceding section, the bills for tho same having been previously approved by the governor. SECT. 3. This n.ct shall take effect on its passage. Approvecl July 3, 1872.

NEW JERSEY.
ACTS

OF

TJm

SIXTY-PIFTH

GESJo:l!Af, ASSK;\l!ILY 01"

'flrn

STATE OF NJ·:W .rn11sEY.
Jt~rRcy.

Au Act concerning tho euivey of tho coatit of Now

SECTIOX 1. Be it enaclecl by the Counci.l and General Assembly of tlliB State, and it is he1·eby enacted by tlto authority of tho same, Thu t it shall nn<l may bo lawful for any person or persons, omployoll n!Hler and by virtue of the act of the Congress of the Unite<l States entitled, "An act .to prcivido for surveying the coasts of tho United States," passed the tenth day nf Fflbruary, in tho yoar of our Lortl eighteen huntlro'<l and seven, at :iny ti mo. hereafter to outt1r upon nny lands within this state, for the purpose of exploring, sm·voyiug, or levelling, or doing auy other matter or thing which may bo 11ec<'ssary to effect the objects of the said.act, and to erect any works, stations, buildings, and uppondagOB necessary for thut purpose, doing no unnecessary injury to private or other property. SECTION 2 . .And be it c11acted, That in case the person or persons so employed undor the said act cannot agree with tho owners or possessors of tho isai<l land so ontoroll upon, for the use of tho same, or Upon the amount of tho <lamage done thereto, it shall and may bo J:i.wfnl for tho person or persona so employed, or the owners or possessors of the 1111.id lauds, to apply to one of the justices of tho euprowe court of this state, wlw shall thereupon appoint throe disinterested allll judicious f'reeholtler<1 resident in tho county wherein tho said lands do lie, which said freeholders, having first severally taken anu subscribou an oath or affirmatiou, heforo some person U.uly authorized to administer tho snme, faithfully to examine the matt01· in question, and assess the dumages s11stnined by the ow11ers or possessors of tho lands so occupied, by renson of such occupation thereol~ according to tho best of their skill and understanding; and tho said freeholders, or a majority of them, ha\·ing given to the owners or possessors of the ·said lands, au<l to tho person or perHons so employed, fivo days' notice of the time and place of meeting, shall pi·oceod upon tho testimony of witnesses, to be by them sworn or affirmed and examined, or upon thoir own view,. or both, to assess tho said damages; nud shall mako report thoroof in writing, under thei.J.o hands and suals, an<l lilo the samo within five d11ys thoreo.fter in the office of the clerk of the county in which the snid Janus U.o lie; which report, as between the said pnrties, shall I.Jo finnl and couclusive, and the amount so assessed and reported bo paid to the said ow uors or possessors of tho Bllid lands within ten days after the filing of the aaid report; and upon dofanlt of such payment, any person or persons so entering upon thu said lands shall forfeit all his or their right of entry given by this .Act, and shall be taken and con11iderod as guilty of trespass, in like

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

13

manner us if this act·liacl not been passed; and the saicl justice of the said supreme court shall, on application of either party, tux ancl allow such costs, foes, and expenses, to any person or persons performing any of the duties prescribed in this net, ns ho sliall think equitable and just, which shall be paid by the person or persons employed under tho said act, within tho time nbovo limited. SECTION 3. And be it enacted, That, if any person or persons shall wilfully in,iure, deface, or remove any signal, station, monument, or building, or any appendage thereto orected, used, or constrncted nuder the said act of the Congress of the United States, or under this net, such person or persons so offoncling shall se,·ernlly forfeit aucl p11y the smn.of one hnnclrod dollars, with costs of snit, to be snecl for and recovered by any person who shall tirst sno for the same in nuy court having cognizance thereof; one half thereof for the use of tho said prosocntor, ancl the other h11lf thereof to be paid to the overseers of the 1ioor of the township in which the offence 'IVns committocl, for tho uso of tho poor of sahl township, and shall bo also liable to Pn.y tho amount of damages thereby sustained, to bo recoverecl, with costs of suit, in an action on the case, in tho name and for tho use of tho United States of America, in any court of compotent,iuriscliction. SECTION 4. And be it enacted, '!'hat this 11ct shall go into offect immediately after the passage thereof. Pa11Sed March 11, 1841.

OHIO.
An Act relating to eurveye authorized by tho congroee of the t:nlted Statei!, In the et.ate of Ohio.

SF.cnoN 1. Be it enacted by the Gone1·al Assembly of the State of Ohio, That any person employed in the execution of auy survey authorized by the congress of the United States, may enter upon lands within this state for the purposo of exploring, triangulating, leveling, surveying, and of doing uny work wl1ich m11y be necessary to carry out the objects of existing 111ws, and may estnbllsh pormanont stations, mu.rka, ~ncl eroctthe neccssnry signals and tempornr~· observatories, doing no unnecessu.ry lnjury thereby. S~:c. 2. If tho parties interested cannot agree upon the amount to be paid fordamagos caused thereby, either of them may petition the probate court in the county in Which the luntl is situntecl, which court sh1Lll 11ppoint a time for a hearing Ill! soon ae lnay be, and order at loast fourteen days' notice to be given to all partieR interested, and with or without a view of the premises, ns the court may determine, hear the llnrties nncl their witnesses, nncl assess clumuges. SEc. 3. The person so entering upon larnl nmy tender to ~he injured parties damages therefor, nncl if, in oalle of appeal to tho probate court, tho tlu.ruu.gos finally lllll!essecl do not exceed the amount tendered, the versonti entering shall reco\·er costs; 0 therwiso tho prevailiuir party shnll recovt1r costs. SRc, 4. Tho costs to bo allowed in all such cases shall bo the same as allowed according to the rules of the court. b ~E~. 5. If any person shall wilfully deface, injure, or remO\'Cl any signal, monument, uild1ng, or ot.her property of the United Stutes coast survey constructed or nHed ~Uder or by virtue of the acts of congress aforesaid, he shall forfeit u snm not exceed: ~g. fifty dollars for eu.oh offonee, o.ncl sh1ill lie liable for damages sustained by the inlllted States in consequence of such defacing, injur~·, or removal, to be recovered au action in the c11110 in any con rt of competent .i uriscliotion. S1tc. 6. This act shall tako otfeot from antl uftur it~ 1ia~sago . ·JAMES E. NEAL,
Speaker of the JJouso of Rep1·esm1tat.foua..
·lAMF:I'!

,v.

OWltN>',

Pussetl April 14, 1879.

1'1·esid1tt1t 11ro te111. of t/w Se11ate.

14

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

OREGON.
An A.ct relating to Surveys .Authorized hy tlw Co11grcttH of tho 1J11ite1l Stnt.c:-1 iu the Stuto of Oregon.

Be it cnactecl by the LeyiBlatii'e AsBcmbly of tlio State of Ureyo11: SI,C'l'lON 1. Auy person employetl iu the execntion of a11y surve~· n.uthorize<l by the congress of tho Cuitotl Stufos may cuter upon lund11 within thi~ State for the purpose of exploring, triangulating, leveling, sur,·eying, arnl of tloing nny work which muy bo necessary to curry out the oujects of existing laws, nrnl may establish permanent station marks und erect the necessary 11ignals aml temporary observatories, <loing no unnecessary injury thereby, having iir8t puitl or tendered to the owner thereof the compensation or damages hereinafter prescribed. SECTIO:-< 2. If tho parties intorestctl c1111not agrco upon tho amount to ho paid for damages cnu11ed thereby, either of them may petition tho county court iu tho county in which tho land i>1 situated, which court shall appoint n time for n licariug 1111 soon us rnny ho, und or<ler at least fourteen <lays' notice to ho given to nil parties intcrcstctl and, with or without a Yiow of tho iircmises, us the court may detorrniue, hour the parties and their witneHses and assess clumuges. SECTION 3. Tho person so entering upon lau1l 111ay tonder tu tho injured l>Urty damages therefor, un<l if iu case of appeal to tho connt~'court tho dumnges finally asHessod do not cxcec<l the amount tenclorod, tho person entering shall recover costs; othorwi11e the prevailing party shall recover costs. SECTION 4. The costs to be allowed in ull such ca.11011 sbull ho t.lw HIJ.11111 nH ullowod according to tlie r11lc11 of tho court. SECTION 5. If any person shall wilfully dofaco, inj nro or remove nuy signal monument, building or other property of the U.S. coaHt survo~·, constructed or URed under or by virtue or the Acts of congreHs aforesaid, ho shall forfoit n Rum not excoo1ling fifty clollurs for each citfenso, and shall ho linblo for damages sustainotl l1y tho United States in consequence of such defacing, injury or removal, to lie recovered in an action on the cnso in n.ny court of competent jurisdiction. Sl~CTION 6. Inasmueh us there is 110 la\\· Oil this suuject, this Act shall bu in force from ancl after its approval by ilrn Gornrnor. Approved February 25, 1889.

SOUTH CAROLINA.
An Act rclutlng to the Survey of tho Coaat of South Cnrolina undur the nuthorlt~· of the United 8tatel!. No. 3021.

I. Be it c1iactcd, by t/ie. Se11ate and House of Reprosenttttives, now met a11d Bitting in Ge11cral ABBembly, and by the authority of tho same, That uny person employed nuder and by Yirtno of nn Act of tho Congress of the United States, pns11od tho tenth day of February, in the year of our Lord 0110 tbonsuncl eight huutlred nud 1:1evon, und the supplemcntR thereto, may outer upon lautls within this Stut<l, for tho purpose of exploring, surveying, triangulation, leveling, or doing any other net which may be necessary to effect the object of the so.id Act of <..:ougress, doing 110 nnnocossnry iujury t.boreby, so thut tho dwolliug house, yard, garden, graveyard, or ornamental trees, of any person be not invaded without his conRent: A11dprovicled, thut before snoh entry, the person so omployecl as uforesuitl, shall enter into bou<l, with suflioieut security, in such sum us may be agreed upon by and between the said persons so employed us aforesaid, a.ml tho owner of tho saicl lauds, conilitioned to pay whato1·e1· dn.mnges may be done nftcr trnch entry; and in case of disagr<'cment of tho purtios us to tho amount of tho ponalt,\' of the hornl, the same may he <lcterminctl by uny .Tu<lgo of the Court of ()Qmmon Ploas of this St.ate in chnmbors or opr.n court, upon applicution to him, uftcr ten days' not.ice to tho opposite party; which u.pplicution muy be eupoorted or nn~woretl by uftldavit.

REPORT FOR 18!J3-PART II.

15

II. If tho pnrticH iutoreste<l c11.1111ot ngrne upon tho 11mo1111t to be pni1l for the d1LU1· uges cn11He1l b~· doing any of the nets aforesaid, either of them rna,v }llltit.iou the Court of Commou PlenH for 1lrn tlistrict in which tho damage has been done for the nppointInent of five commissioners, a mu,iority of whom shull value uud fix tho amount of the said dnnmgo, eithor upou view or upon competent teHtimony, us the saitl couuuisHiouers may deem hcst. Arnl tho said commissioners, before they act, shall sl\vernlly take an oath before some rnngistrato, foi thfnlly untl impartiu.lly to discharge tho duty nssignecl them, and Hlrnll retm11 their proceedings, with a full description of the damugo done, uudor tho )1u1uls and seal of a majority of them, to tho Court from wl1ieh th11 con11nissio11 isHuod, thorn to remain of rucord. III._ In caHe either part~· shull apJleal from tho vnluntion of the damage so fixed by the said couunisHioners, or a mu,iority of them, to tho Court at it8 next sitting thereafter, and give fifteen days' not-ice to tho opposite pnrt~·, of such nJlpeal, the Court Shall order n iicw n1luntion to be 111a11e by a jury, who shnll l>o chnrgod therewith in t~c same term or us soon as 11racticablo, null tlwir l'l'mlict Rhall be fluul and conolusivo between the iiartios, unless a now trial shall ho gmntc<I. IV. If any person shall wilfully an<l nmliciouHly ckstroy, or in :my m111111er hnrt, dnn1nge, or obstruct, or shall wilfully nncl maliciously cause, or aid, or assist, or eounSel, or ad vise any other person or 11orsons to <lostroy or in any manner to lmrt, damngc, injure or obstruct any i;ignal, mo11111111mt, lrnil<liug, or 11uy appendage thereto, ~sci~ or construct.e1l un<lor and by virtne of tho Act of Con gross nforesai<l, he shall 0 liable to be iu<lictorl ·thorcfor, and 011 co11victio11 shall he imprisoned not moro thau ~no Jnonth, or pay a fine not excoo1ling fifty dollnr8, or both, at the discrotiou of tho ourt before which such conviction shall take jllaco, null shall ho further liable to }lay nil expcnseH ol'ropniring tho sumo, nn<l it shall not ho competont for any person : :offending, to dcfoud hims1ilf, by Jllcading or givi11g in e\'idoneo that he waH the lier, or agent, or servant of tho owner of tho Jund whern suoh d:unnge Willi doue or cnused at tho time the sn1.110 was ca.1111011 or <lone. In the Senato Honse, tho seven toe nth day of December, in the year of our Lord ~Ile thousand, 11igl1t hundred and forty-oight, 1 ancl iu the so\·ent~'-Hecoml year of t.he <>vereignty mul Imlopendence of the Unito<l StatuH of Amurica.
H. F. \V. ALI.HTON,

l'1·cside11t of tho S011ato pl'O. tem.
\V. F. COJ.COCIC, Spc1tkc1· uf the HuuBe of llopresentatitoeB.

TENNESSEE.
CllAP'flm XXIV.
An A~t- rol11li11~ tu tho Unlte1l 8t.11tt·.H Con·t· Snr\"oy In tho State of' '.l'onneseco.

Be it enacted b!f the Gc11c1·al Asscm;b/y of the State of Te1111e~B1°c, Thnt nny :Pill!son eniployecl under anu by \'irtue of nu Act of Congress of the United States,

}le~nCTJON 1.
St~
'(l

......_ ..

01 nonts theroto, or under tho diruct.ion of Congress to form n Geoclotio connoobetween the Atlantic and Pncifi('. eoa~ts, null to furnish triaugnlntion points for hig e ~llrvcys, lllay enter llllOJJ such lnnu8 with it~ this Sta to fo1· tho purpose of oxplutllf)c' triangulating, ll'voling, Hnrvoying and of doing nny other 11ct which mny be bui~~nry to cnrr,v ont tlrn objocts of ~aid laws, nml ma~· erect an~· works, stations, 1 t]i,., nss uud uppendugo11 rcqui8ite f11r that pm11oi1e1 doing uo unuccessary iujury I!· 1 I\' tio

eupll~cl. tho tent.h dny of ~'ubruary, ouc tlHmH11111l eight hundred and soven and of the

---- ·---- -

-- --

1

Sovuu.

16

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

SEC. 2 .. lJe it further enacted, That if tho l>erHon or persons, over whose lauds tho survey has been made, or upon whose lands monuments, stations or buildiugs have been erected, or who has in any way sustained clamago by such survey, cannot agree with the officer of tho Const Survey as to the damage snRtaincd, the amount of such damage may be ascertainecl in tho rnauner provided hy Chapter II, of Title 8, Code of Tennessee, providing for taking private property for public uses. SEC. 3. Be it fm·tlier enagted, That if any person shall wilfully deface, injure or remove any signals, monuments, buildings or other property of the l:nited States Coast Sm·vey, constructed or used under or by virtue of the Acts of Congress aforesn.id1 he shall forfeit n sum not exceecling fifty dollars for each offense, and shall be liable for damages sustained by the United States in consequence of each defacing, injury or removal, In an action on the case in any Court of competent jurisdiction. SEC. 4. Be it further enacted, That this Act shall take effect from and after its passage, the public welfare requiring it. Passed March 17, 1877. Ruan M. McADoo, Speaker of the Senate. EDWIN T. TAUAFEimo, Speak111· of tlto House of Representatives. Approvecl March 21, 1877. .JA::\IES D. PonTIJ:Jt, Governor.

VERMONT.
No. 251. An Act relating to tho Survey of Lnke Champlain, and to the 011orations uonnect-0d thore· with, in tho State of V~m1ont.

It is h111·eby enacterl by the Gcn111·al Assembly of the State of Vermont: SEC. 1. Any 1>erson employed under nnd by virtue of an act of the Congress of the United States, passecl "the tenth day of February, one thousand eight hundred und seven, and the supJ>lomonts thereto, ma~· enter upon lands ·within this state for the purpose of exploring, surveying, triangulating, Ievolling, and doing nny other act which may be necessary to effect the object of eaicl uct, or of the act of Congress passed the fifteenth da~· of Jnl.v; one t.housaud eight hundred nnd Heventy, and ma~· erect any works, Htations, buildings, and appendages requisite for that purpose, doing no unnecessary injury thereby. SEC. 2. If the parties interested cannot agree upon the amount to be paid for the damages caused by doiug any of the acts aforesaid, either of them may petition 9 judge of the county court of the county where such lnnd is situated for the appointment of commissioners to appraise such damages; ancl such juclgo shall give renson· able notice to the parties interestcil of the time when and place where he will he11r the parties in such petition; a.nd such judge may appoint three judicious aucl diij· ii1terestecl persons commissioners to a8certaiu tho damages to such lund-ownct· And such commissionors shall noti(y the parties interested, and shall proceed to ascertain nncl appraise the damages to tho land-owner, nnd shall make a report thereof to the county court then next to ho held in tho snme county; and said court may, for sufficient reasons, accept or reject said report, in whole or in part, aud.mBY render judgment in favor of the person interested in the land for such damages as it shall appear ho has sustained, nnd may tax costs as said court sliall judge just and equital>le, aml shall issue execution therefor. S.1tc. S'. The person so entering upon the land and doing nny of the nets aforesaid, may tender to the 1>nrties injured sufficient amends therefor, and if the dama.geS finally assessed shall not exceed the amount so tendered, the person so entering sh11ll recover hill costs.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAH'l' II.

17

S1<:c. 4. If uny iiers1111 lllrn.11 wilfull,1· dofuco, injure, or remove any signals, monuments, buildings, or 1my appondago thereto, used nnd constructed mulor and by Virtue of the nets of Congrollll aforesaid, ho shall forfeit a sum not exceeding fifty dollurs for each offo11Hc, 'to be rocovorotl hy indictment for tho nso of tho party Prosocutiug, and shull also be liable for nil damages suRtaine1l b~· tho United States of America, to be recovered i 11 an action on tho CU.HO in uny <'ourt of competent jurisdiction. SEc. 5. This act llhall take otfoct from and after itt1 approval by tho governor. Approved November 8, 1870.

VIRGINIA.
LAWS OJ" V11tGJNIA l'Ass1m DI
lS.13-1-PAG~:

65.

CHAl'Tim 85.

\\ 1 of Title I, Chap. 2. reforll to "Places purchased by tho United States for forts and other buildings." . \\ 2. Any person employed under the u..ct of congress providing for a survey of the coasts of tho United Stat1·a approved the tenth of February, eighteen hundred and sov-on, or under any net snpplomental thereto, muy, for tho purpose of exploring, surveying, triangulating or leveling, to effect the objects of tho first mentioned act, enter upon any land!! within thill state, remove tho fences, cut down trees, or do any Other matter or thing necessary to effect those objects. ~ 3. Tho damugos snstainot.1 by removal of the fences, cutting of trees, injury to tho cro1ls, or otherwise, if tho same be not ugreod npon, shall be ascertuinocl either on the application of tho person so employed, or of the owner or possessor of tho Jamel, II.II follows, that is to say: notice shall be given by one of them to tho other for ton days that at a certain time and place ho will up11ly to a justice to appoint persons to assess tho damages. U1ion its bning shewn to the Justice at such time and place tha.t such notice has boon given, the justice !!hall appoint throe intelligent, disinterestscl and impartfo,I freeholders to m1tke such assessment. They shall bo cluly sworn, and after giving five clays' notice of tho time of their mooting, both to the applicant a?d the other party, shall go upon the promiRos, antl then and there, upon their own View and tho ovhlenco of such witnesses n.s may be adduced, to be by them sworn llnd examined, shall asMoss tho damages. . ~ 4. They shall make a report of their proceedings, under their hands, nnd file tho Bame within five dnys thereafter in the office of the clork of the court of the county wherein tho lau1l ii! situated. ~ 5. 'Vithin ton days n.ftor tho s1tme be filed, either party may file with tho clerk a Written notice stating thnt ho appeals from tho assessment to the county court. ~ 6. If no such notice be filed, tho county court 11hall at tho first torm thereafter confirm tho report, make 11 rc:isomtble nllowanco to tho frooholclcirs for their services, and order payment to be maclo of the amount so assessed, of such nllowance, of tho oftl.cers' foes and of what tho wi tnessm1 may be entitled to for their attendance. ~ 7. If such notice be filed, either pnrty may thereupon tu.kc out subp0An11.S for \Vltne.~scs; a.ml nt the lirst term at which the s1uno can eouvcnioutly be done, the ~ 1180 shnll bo hoard. If either p:trty desire it, a jury mn.y be impanelled to assess he <lam ages; but if this bo not asked, tho court shall itself hear tho witnesses and :ake such assessment ns may ~com to it lll"opor. And tho court slrnll give such irections iu regard t.o tho costs as it may deem rlght. or~ 8. If any pt1rson shall ,\·ilfully in,iure, clofaco or remove nny sigrnil, monument building or any appendage thereof, oroctod, used or constructed under the act of COngross aforesaid, snch l'erson shall forfeit fifty dollars to nny parson who shall sue for the 1um10, and shall also be liable to the U11itecl Statea for t.he damup;es thereby Sllstained. '
Code of Virginia., publi~l.Jod in 1849, pp. GO, 61. S. Ex. 19, pt. 2 - 2

18

l;, S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
WEST VIRGINIA.
CHAl'TEH

LXXXIY.

Au Act. <·011ccrni11g the l;nitcd StatcH Coast and Gr.odetic Survt'Y in this Htnto.

Be it c11actecl by the LegiBlaturn of WeBt Vfrginia: 1. That it shall :md may ho lawful for any pcrHon or porsons employed under and by Yirtuc of 1m act of tho Cougrcss of tho Cnited States, llllssed February tho tenth, oue thous:md eight hundred aml seven, aud all nct11 supplemental thereto, at any timo hereafter to enter upon lands within t.Jti11. state for tho purpose of exploring, 1;nrvcying, triangulating or leveling, or doing any other matter or thing which may be necessary to effect tho objects of 1mid act; :tllll to cred any works, stations, building!! or appcmlages re<Jllisito fort.hat purpo11.,, tloing no uunocossar,Y iu,iury to private or other property. 2. That in caso tho person or persons cmplo~·otl under tho act of Congrest1 aforesaid, or arts supplemental thereto, l'lmnot agree wiLh the ownor11 or pos8essors of the land so entered upon and used, as to the amount of damages done thereto hy reason of the removal of fonces, cutting of trcm1, or injury to tho crop or t·.rops growing on the same, it 11hall and may l>e lawful for the i;aid parties, or either of them, to apply to the circuit <011rt of the county to hnve the snuw condcmne<l, arnl such application shall ho prococdeil in, trit~d 1111d determined, in all ret1pects, aH provided in chapter forty two of the code of "'est Virginia. 3. That if any person or per11011s shall wilfully iujuro or tlofacc or remove any signal, monument, or lrniltling, or a.11~· appendage thereto, erected, usotl or constructed un<ler and by Yirtuo of tho act of congrnss aforesaid, or any act or actssupplomentnl themto, such 1icrso11s HO uffm1<ling shall sevomlly forfeit and pay tho sum of fifty dollars with tl10 costs of snit, to bo sued for and rocovorecl hy uny person who shall firat prosecute the BUil,JC before auy j us ti cc of the pea co of tho county whom the 1rnrson so offcntling may reside, and shall also he Jiahlo to lHlY the amount of damages thereby t11111taiued, to he rot·o\·ered with cost8 of snit in au action.on the cnse, in tho name nn<l for the use of the Uuitc<l States of America, iu any court of competent jurisdiction. Paa11ctl March 14. 11'!81. ApprovC<l l\lareh lG, 1881.
0

[ Xoto L.Y tho Clerk of Urn llou·u of Dclegutc·.]

The foregoing act take>1 effect from its passage, two-thirds of tho memlJcrs elected tu each Ho11t1e, b~· a vote taken hy ~·cas aud nap1, haviug so directed.

APPENDIX No. 2-1898.

ON THE RESULTING HEIGHTS FROM GEODETIC LEVELING ALONG THE TRANSCONTINENTAL LI:\'E OF LEVELS BETWEEN ST. LOUIS AND .JEFFERSON CITY, l\10., EXECUTED IN THE YEAHS 1882 AND 18$8, llY ANDHEW BRAID AND GEHSIIOM llRADFOHD, ASSISTA::STS, AND ISAAC WINSTON, SUDASSISTANT.
Discussion nud report by C11Am.1~s A. Sc1rnrr, Assistant anll Chief of tho Computing Division. Submitted for publication August 29, :893.

The report which I have the honor to submit herewith gives the resultiug 11eights from geodetic leveli11g along the trarnmoutiuental line of levels between St. Louis an<l ,Jefferson City, l\fo., executed in the years 1882 and 1888 by Assistants Andrew Braid and Gershom Bradford. In Appendix No. 11, Heport for 1880, Assistant Bra.id explain~ the Inethod of leveling then in use, viz: 'l'wo parallel lines were run simultaneously and in the same direction, one using (say) Staff E, the other Staff F, the rods being placed at slightly different distances from the intrument; alternate parts of the double line were run in opposite directions. On level gTou11d or where the slope <lid not interfere, the averag·e distance between the staves was 220 metres, the instruDlent being as near as may be nudway between them. This method '\Vas afterwar1ls found unsatisfactory aud was superseded in 1885 and 1886 by the better one of rmmiug two independent lines, one forward, the other backward. The latter method was employed in 1888 by .A.ssistaut Bradford, who usually took the forward and Subassistant "\\'inston the' backward measures. Route of levels.-The hne starts from the Coast and Oeodetic Survey bench mark J 3 , as marked by a bronze plate on the western land pier of the Great Bridge across the l\Iississippi at St. I1ouis, and identical in l~vel with uench mark K 3 , known as the St. J,ouis D'irectrix,. which is Used by city surveyors and Ui11ted States engiueers. (For description see Appeud1x No. 11, C. and G. Survey H.eport for 1882, p. 556.) The line of' 1882 follows the Missouri Pacific Hailroad track to New Haven and a few nules beyond to .Etlah, at which point it was taken up and 19

20

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

carried, in 1888, along the same road to Moreau Creek (secondary beuch mark XXV), a few miles east of Jefferson City. Total development of line of levels from St. Louis mark K 3 to temporary mark XXV, 194·5 kilometres, or 120·86 statute miles. (See illustration No. 1.) Observers and dates of leveling.-Assistant A. Braid carried the line from St. Louis to ¥tlah between October 15 and December G, 1882, and Assistant G-. Bradford, aided by Subassistant I. Winston, ext.ended it to the vicinity of Jefferson City between April 19 and June 30, 1888. Instruments and rods.-Geodetic spirit level No. 1 was used by Assistant Braid; it is described and illustrated in Appendix No. 11, Report for 1880. The metric rods E and F are of the P!tttern shown on plate 23, Coast and Geodetic Survey Heport for 1879, Appendix No. 15. Assistant Bradford used almost exclusively spirit level No. 2 and No. 3 on only four days; the rods A (A1), B, C, D were used at one time or another. 1 Both instruments are described in Appendix No.15, Ueport for 1879. The instrm;nental constants are as follows:
1 A1 and ll from April 19 to :May 18; thou C and D until May 28; then ll and D until June 7; after that elate A, and ll, but from June 23 to June 30 C and D were again used, their IJroken thermometers having been replaced by new ones.

Gcoa'el/c .MicrQ111dcr Level M . .r.

Aperture of telescope, Focal length of telescope, Magnifying power of telescope, Value of
l

3·5<m 40·7cm 261 l:sed with low-power eyepiece,
5"·29

I

GcQ.:ictzi: .lf.ficr(}q/dcr Level M. z.
41 ·QCIU

Gc(}(/cf1i: .llficr(}mc/cr Lrod .A0. .J·

div. of striiiing level,

Determir.ed by A. Braid, Apr. 25, 1879. Collar inequality, object-end large,* 2 11 ·74 Determined by A. Braid, Dec. 9, 1882. Telemeter diaphragm of 3 horizontal spider lines. Upper to middle thread, 161 5211 ·i Lower " " " J6' 35 11·3 Value of l turn=IOO divisions of microm., 443 11 ·1 and 442" ·9. determined by

4·3<·· 41·QCD1 25·6 Used with low-power eyepiece, 25·6 Value of striding leYel, 4''·48 3"·37 { " 11 " chambered level,t 2 ·73 D t · db {I. Winston, Apr. 2 ancl 17, 1888. Determined by J.B. Weir, Apr. 2, 1887. e ernunc Y Office determinat:on, 1888. Object.end large, 0 11 ·25 and <>''·24. Object-end small, o'1 ·03 and o''·41. Determined by I. Winston, Apr. 18, July 10, 1888. Determ'<l by I.Winston,Apr.18, 19, July 10,1888. Three equidistant telemeter threads. Three e(1uidistant telemeter threads. Angular distance, 14' 00 11 ·7 16' 3911 ·3 Angular distance,

4·3=

~ t.tj

Value adoptcd,t determined b)\

2 57 11 "5

Value adopted,t determined hy Tittmann} Winston in 1879-'80-'87. McGrath

2

57 11 "5

0

'"Cl

~
>'rj

0. II. Tittmann, Aug. and Sept., 1877, and A. Braid, , :McGrath} in i88 . 7 Winston hlay 21. 23. 1879. Weight of instrument and stand, 10·4 kg. 20·4 kg. Increasing.l's and d's of microm. correspond to de- 'I Increasing turns depress object-end of telescope. pressing object-end of telescope. Rods E and Fare each 3m long. l Rods A 1, B, C, Dare each 3m long (see App. No. 9, Rep. for 1887). The graduation of these rocls is of standard length at I The graduation of A 1 is st.'lnclard at 67°·0 Fah. or 19°·4 C. 62°.1 and 66°·1 Fah. or 16°7 and 18°·9 C. I Ji " " " 71 ·7 " " 22 · 1 " c" u " 68 ·4 " " 20 ·3 u

I

0

20·4 kg.

...

t:O

00
<O

'"'°

~

D" " " 58 ·1 " " 14 ·4 " . . { Fahrenheit sc:tle 0·000010 Coefli1c1ent of expansion of brass for C en t"1graae . " ' 0·00001 8 64·omm Index corr. of E (Oct., 1883), 6i·otuu1 Index corr. of A 1 (in Apr, and July, 1888), 77·2mm F ( " ), B ('' " " " " ), 77·omm C (" May " July, " ), 6o·4mm
1

i

"'3 ...... ....

~

J;} ("

"

"

"

"

), 6o·omm

·It ·vas but 111 .01 in the period April, 1881, to June, 1882, as computed by H. Farquhar from records by A. Braid. t Used when determining collar inequality in July, 1888, the tube of striding level broken. t For particulars, see Appendix No. 14, Report for 1887, p. 276. N. ll.-This difference between the terminal point of the rods and the zero of the" brass scale" does not ordinarily come into consideration. None of these rods ha\"e undergone any change since their construction except that due to an acciden.. to rod A in Angust.1881,and that due to wear of supporting surface. Comparisons for lengths of rods C and D were made by J. J. Clark, September 21, 188o, and August 30, 1882, and computed by H. Farquhar.

~

....

22

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

11fetiiod of obsenJing.-As already stated, the method employed for tb~ part of the line between St. Louis and Etlah was that of running sinmltaneously two parallel Hues, but this was changed for the remainder of the line to the better practice of running two in<lepenclent lines-one forward, the other backward. In the latter work, before taking the micrometer reading for "horizon," the bubble of the level was always brought to the center of the scale. Computations.-The field computation was made by the observer, and the office computation of tho 1882 work by Subassistant .T. P. Pratt and Mr. H. Farquhar, with results drawn up by Mr. A. 8. Christ1e. 1 Tho observations of' 1888 were reduced by the observers, and tho office computation was ma<le by l\fr. F. l\I. Little in November, 1888, and completed by Subassh1tant J. Nelson, in April, 1803. The usual corrections were made for micrometric difference when pointing to horizon and to target of staff; for effect of collar inequality; for curvature and refraction; for leugth of staff at various temperatures, and for index error where necessary. Results.-Tbey are given here in the usual tabular form, but instead of starting from the sea. level the results are given differentially with respect to the St. Louis bench mark lC3. Its height above the ocean is at present not known with precision, but the value given in the Annual Report for 188~, page 5ti4, appears too high, to judge from tho two inde· pendent liues of levels now extending to the Gulf. Cutil the fieldwork is completed, and if temporarily approximate results of the bench marks west of St. J,ouis be required, we may take for the heig·ht of this marlc 126 metres, or 413·4 feet, nearly.
--------------------------1

Hesults reporte<l by me, Augu11i 25, 1883.

Date, 1882.

I ..
22 22 25

Re8ulta/rom geodetic l'pirit ler:eling i1I Mi88011ri-First part from St. Louis to Xe10 Ha1:e1t (a11d Btlah), 1882.

~~·

Distance between successive bench marks.

Distance from / initial n1ark Ks- :

I

I

i __

k_11_1_--·-·--;,:- .-· ·- "'~-- -2·059 0·885 1·339 2·562 2·849 3·954 0·952. 2·101 2·012 1 ·153 2·336 0·928 2'196 3·634 1·102 1·680 2·134 2·217 1·907 2·o63 1·979 2·141 1 ·827

I

Difference of height b-.,-;c;:arks. H . h f · e1g to - - -· - - - - - - - - - - - - 1· - - - - --- mark above . . . 1 _ . I Partial Total accu- . St. Louis bench E '1f brsl line. , F or second hne. )lean. , E-I' :d mark K 1· I I . mu 1a1c . 1

bet·~een

rn:Orci:n~

!
1

I

!---~I.--

- I-

-,,-:-1- ~"'I~ - ,:".-·1--11-1-.-+;-:3 -6·9 -0·7 -4·3 -1·4 +1·8 i 0·3 -3"2 -0·9 +n ,o·6 __; yo -1·3 + - 6·6 - 7·3 -11·6 --13·0 --11·2 --10·9 -14·1 -15·0

Oct.

15

K3

181 187 188 189 190 19r 192 193

1871 188 189 I 190 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 HJ8 204

1~; I ~-:37;

~:~

2·431 3·316 4·655

- 3·1293 +18·9172 -1n988

+-13-.5~64

+-1·3-·s;;6i -- 3·1224 +18·9179 -15·7945

i +~:i-:5~;
I

- 3·1259 +18·9175 -15·7966

~:~

I i
·
1

+1~:~

10·38o3 29·2978 13·5012

;:::i

t:::: ....,

25
:l\O\'.

2 2

II

3 3

1·211 10·066 14·020 14·972 17·073

+ 9·7236 -10·9293 + 7·1345
- 5·7505 +17·1256 +15·2657 --!..10·8348 +10·5820 - 0·4905 -17·8612 --29·1377 - 9·14o3 ·-- 6·8468 + 0·1142 -- 0·1627
I 1·1323 + 3·1798 2·4040 ' 1·2115 0·96go

+ 9·12so + 9·7243 -10·9311 i -10·9302 7·1342 ' + 7"1344 - 5·7473 ' - 5·7489 +17·1265 t +17·1260

i

I

+

t

23·2255 12·2953 19·4297 13·68o8 30·8o68 46·o688 56·9033 67·4838 66·9940 49·1303 19·9913 10·8530 4·0074 4·1236 3"9588 5·0932 8·2709 5·8697 7·0829 8·0527

:::d 8
0

0

'>::
;:::i
<::>
00

....

3 '94 3 195 41196 4 197 9 198 9 7 7 7 7 13 13 13 13 14 204 203 202 201
200

I

I
I
J

~

i
' I

j

19·085 20·238 22·574 23 ·502 2s ·698 29·332 30·434 32·114 34·248 36·465 38·372 40·435 42·414 44·555 46·382

+15·2582 +10·8342 +10·5790 - 0·4892 -17·8662 -29·1404 - 9·1363 - 6·8444 + o·n81 -- 0·1669 1·1364 + 3·1756 - 2·3983 + 1·2148 0·9705

+15·2620 +10·8345 +10·58o5 - 0·4898 -17·8637 -29·1390 - 9·1383 - 6·8456 + 0·1162 - 0·1648

-7"5
6·9 3·9 5·2 0·2 2·5 1·5
3-~
t

i >
;:;l

-i-S'O
+2·7
-4·0 -2·4 -3·9 +4"2 -4·1 +4·2

8

_,

203 202 201 . 200 ! 199 I 20s 206

I

+
-

:;-t

-

7"8 3·6

I

199 205 206 x 207

I
I

+

207· 208

xi

+

+

+ 1·1344 + 3·1777 - 2·4012 + 1·2132

-n
- 3·5
- 9·2 -12·5
-14·0

-5"7
-3·3 -1·5

-+- 0·9698

~

Nl

RcrnltB f1·om geodetic Bpfrit lereling iir Mi88011ri-1''irBt part fl"Om St. Lo11i8 to Neto Hai:e11 (a11d Etlah), 1882-Continueil.
I

~ ~

Bench mark. Date,
1882.

From-

To-

Distance between Distance from successi\·e initial mark K1 . bench marks.

Difference of height between bench marks. E or first line.

Discrepancy. Partial E-1''.

-I

I

I F or second line.
I

lllean.

!

Height of mark above Louis bench Totalaccu- St. mark K 3· mulated.

Nov.

14 1208 14 209 18 210 18 215 18 216 18 18 21 21 21 20 20 20 20 16

i 209 '
210 215 216 XI 217 218 224 223 222 221 220 219 214 213 212 211 225 226 227 XII 228 229

k111.

1·830 1·712 2·177 2·325 0·925 2·655 0·640 2·428 1 ·573. 2·045

i I

km.

fll.
I

I XI

!

48·212 49·924 52·101 54·426 55·351 58·oo6 58·646 61 ·074 62·647 64·692 64·909 67·96o 69·850 71 "]78 73·347

+ + + + -

3"9695 3·4154 5·4122 6·0574 6·7483

I I I I
I

Ill.

+ + + + -

3·9629 3·4143 5·4089 6·0593 6·7480

I+ +

m. 3·9662 3·4148 + 5·4105 + 6·0583 - 6·7482

111111.

111111.

+6·6 +1·1

I -0·3 ~n
I
!

-

7·4 G·3 3·0 4·9 5·2

~
~·

a
0
a:i

>

217 218 224 223 222 221 220 219 214

- 47312 i - 0·8689 + 1·1732 +11 ·7666 I +14·6175 + 1·5192 +23·9667 -14·3620 -15·4343 -·12·93S8 + ·.3·2351 0·4045 1·5481 0·5850 0·8756 0·1652 1·1348

I

+

4·7287 o·868o 1·1719 +11·7637 +14·6112

- 4·7299 - 0·86!.\5 + 1·1725 +I 1"7652 +14.6144 + 1·5188 +23·9670 -14·3631 -15·4348 -12·9400

-2·5 -0·9 i +1·3

-t-2 ·9
+6·3 +0·7 -0·6
+2·I

-7"7 - 8·6 -7"3 - 4·4 + 1·9
+ + + + + + + -

>-:3

11>t)

z

0 0

I

I

0·217 3·051 I ·890 1·928 1·569

i
;
i
; I

t;:l

I
I
I
I

+ 1 ·5185 +23"9673 -14·3641 -15 ·4353 -12·9412 + + 3·2341 0·3990 1·5503 0·5792 0·8736

!

I
I

+1·0 ·-2·4 -1·0

2·6 2·0 4·1 5·1 7·5 6·5 1·0 1·2 7·0 5·0 87 3·5 7·0

M
>-:3

t)

a

U2

c:::
t:z:! ~
~

1"5 213 151212 22 211 22 225 22 i 226 23 231 XII 23 228 25

I I 227

2·476 3 ·309 ' 2·329 i 2·450 ' 1·943 [ 0·861 2·026 1·305 0·451
I

75·823 79·132 J 81·461 83·911 85·854 86·715 88·741 90·046

l

+

3·2346 i - 0·4017 i + 1·5492 - 0·5821 + 0·8746 + 0·2377 - 0·1678 1·1365

: -

::0

-5"5

-2·2 -5·8 +2"0 +5·2

i

i

-

+ 0·2358
+

I

i

+ 0·2395 - 0·1704 + I ·1383 +15·9332

-3"7 -3"5

go

229

L3

I

~-497

+15·9322

·--1--1-\ +15·9327 -1·0 8·o
1 ----·----·----

+

'4

29 229 :z9 237 29 236 28 235 28 234 28 27 27 233 232 231 230 238

237 236 235 234 233 232 231 230 238 M3

r265 2·416 2·057 1·869 2·079 2·025 2·485 3·095 2·040 1·103

I

91·311 93-;27 95·784 91·653 99·732

-·:r-2030 + 1"4947 - 0·4924 + 1·4992 I + 1·0356 I

I

+ 1·4987 + 1·4967 - 0·4go8 - 0·4891 + 1·496o + 1·4976 + 1·0373 + 1·0365
+ +
- 0·4763 + 0.9834 0·4674 - 0·3330. 1·9015 -

-

1°2052

-

l"204l

+2"2 -4·0 -3·3 +3"2 -1·7

4·81 -- 8·8 -12·1 - 8·9 -10·6 -

23·o636 24·56o3 24·0695 :z5·567r 26·6o36

Lee.

4 4 41 M, 4 XIII
6 6 239 240

757 104·242 107·337 109·377 110·48o
IOI

- 0·4750 + 0·9905 I 0·468o - 0·3351 1·9052

+ +

I

+ 0·9869 + 1·9034
0·8889 0·1273 o·o666 -

0·4756 0·3341

+ 0·4677

+1·3 +P +o·6 -2·1 +3"7 -0·3 -2·1 +1·0 -1·5

9·3 2·2 1·6 3·7 o·o
O"]

26·128o 27·1149 2ns26 27·2485 29·1519 28·2630 28·888o 29·0153 29·o819
~
t:j

XIII 239 240 XIV I

0·129 1·o8o 2·126 2·347

110·609 I I I ·689 113·815 116·162

-

--------

I

+ 0·6239 + 0·1278 + o·o659

o·88go

+ o·o674

+ 0·626o + 0·1268

0·8887

I+ + ""''"

I

-

2·4 1·4 2·9

0

"d

>-3
l'%j

~

0

~

00
C.:>

....

co

! >
1-3
!""'
~

.....

I.-.:)

01

26

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Deeci·iption of primai-y and secondary benclt n1a1·ke between St. Louie, Jfo., and Etlah, Mo.

K 3.-This m:11k is known at St. Louis as the "City Directrix." It has been in.use for many years in connection with the levels oft.he city. It was origim1lly the top surface of a pedestal of a monument which stood on Front street, near .Market. The mormme11t shaft was destroyed at the time of the great fire in thatlocality, but the pedestal remained. It is i1ow (1882) level with the curbsto11e and forms a part thereof'; A T mark has smce been cut to indicate the point used for a bench mark. The large bronze-plate bench marks 13 , on south face of the eastern land pier of the Great Bridge at East St. Louis, III., a]J(l .T:1, on the westem land pier of the bridge, were placed, as near as possible, on the same level with the City Directrix mark K 3 · (See C. and G. Survey Report for 18ts2, p. 554; also report of the Miss. River Commission for 1883.)

B. o M.
u.s.c.&:o.s.

L3
1882
FIG. l.

Secondary B. M. X.-Is cut on the upper surface of the middle top stone of the south side of the east abutment of railroad bridge (Missouri Pacific) at St. Paul, Mo. It is marked thus: B. o J\f. Secondary B. JI. X I.-Is cut on top of the south side of the west abut· ment of the Missouri Pacific Hailroad bridge at Allenton, Mo. It is marked thus: Bo :U.

u.s.c.&.c.s.

B.i::lFM.
M3
1882
1·'10. 2.

Secondary B. jJf. XII.-Is a cross on the head of a copper bolt inserted in the face of a perpeudicnlar rocky bluff about three-eighths of a. mile west of South Point Station (Mo. Pac. It R). The bolt was inserted hy the United States englueers at work on improvement of Missouri Hiver. Pr-imary B. 11f. L:1.-Is cut on the horizontal surface of the stone ledge under the windows of the east face of the German Catholic churcb at Washington, Mo. It is marked as shown in iig. I. Primary B. M. l\h-Is cut on the northeast comer of the building occupied. by the ''New Haven .Merchandise Company," at NeW Haven, l\Io. The building stands a short dh'ltance south of thO Missouri Pacific Hailroarl track and west of the railroad station· The B ..M. 1s marked. as shown in fig. 2.

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

27

Secondary B. Jl[ XIII.-Is cut on the north side of the east abutment of railroad culvert (Mo. Pac.RR.) about onc-eigllth mile west of New Haven, Mo. It i.s marked tlms: B. o M. Seconda1·y B. Jlf. XIV.-Is cut on the top surface of the north end of the east abutment of a small railroad bridge or culvert (Mo. Pac. R. R) about one-fourth mile east of Etlah Station, Mo. lt is marketl thus: B. o l\f. XIV. (See route diagram.)

u. s.

Results fm111 geodetic spirit le"Celillg in Jlisso10-i-Seco11d part from Neto Haven to vicinity of Jefferson City, 1888.
·-·

ti:)

---·
Difference of height between bench marks. Distance between Distance from successive initial mark Ks. To- bench marks. Forward measure. Backward measure. Mean. Discrepancy. Partial
F-B.

00
Height of markabO\·e St. Louis mark Total accuKsmu lated.

Date, 1888.

I I

Bench mark.

From-

··----- - - - - - - -------

-

---- ---111.

1882. Dec. 4 4 6 6 1888. Dec. 4 4 6 6
May 2
I I I
I

:'.\13

xm

M, XIII

km. -- --

239 240
M3
I

XIV
l

239 240
M3

0·129 1·080 2·126 2·347

-

km.

111.

110·48o 11o·<X>9 111 ·689 113·815 116·162 110·48o "001 111 ·957 112·788 113·293
l ll

m.

mm.

mm.

-0·8890 +0·6239 +0·1278 +o·o659 --0·6548 +0·3198 +0·2576 -0·0502 --0·8910 +0·4366 +0·0287 +0·0275 +0·4901 -0·0784 -0·16oo +0·1742 --0·6261 +0·4952 +0·4874 --0·3931 -o·o657

--0·8887 +0·626o +0·1268 +o·o674 --0·6541 +0·3169 +0·2548 --0·0528 -0·8885 + 0 ·4375 +0·0227} +0·0283 +0·4891 -0·0746 -0·16o7 +0·1779 -0·6286 +0·4950 +0·4837 --0·3926 -o·o664

-0·8889 +0·6250 +0·1273 +0·0666 -0·6544 +0·3184 +0·2562 -0·0515 -0·8898 +0·4370 +0·0268 +0.4896

---------

---

-- ------o·o - 0·7 + 2·2 + 5·0 + 7·6

-- -

~

.o

f'fJ
Q

Apr. 19 19 19 20
20 20 Apr. 21 .May 2 Apr. 21

-- -- -

I2
I 3
I I

2 3 4 6

0·521 0·956 0·831 0·505

---0·7
+2·9 +2·8 +2·6 -2·5 --0·9
I

~
9 21 o6

>

0

t:l
0

~

t::j

I

Apr. JO} May 2 Apr. JO
Mean Apr. 30 30 30 28 ,

4 5 6 7

5

7

XIV XIV
8 9
IO

{

-----;

0·724 0·830 0·759} 0·766 0·490

114·017 114·847 115·609 I 16·099 116·131 116·875 117·537 118·395 119·177 12o·o88 120·906 121 ·842 122·624

+ 5·1

{

+ 4·2

8 8
.6
2 ,0

0

~ t;:j
~ ......

Apr. 21 23 23 24
24 25 25 26

XIV
8 9 10

----0·744
0·662 0·858 0·782

----·----3·8 +07 -37 +2 5 + + + + + 7·8 4·0 4·7 l'O 3·5

+2·61 +1·0

+ 6·8 + 7·8

Q

~

I --0·0765 --0·16o4 -j-o·176o
-0·6274

5
7
8
6 6
4

:<

~ < l'<-'

ll

28 I 11 28 I 12 27 j 13 27 14

12 13
14

15

0·911 0·818 0·936 0·782

+0·4951 +0·2 +0·4856 I +3·7 -0·3928 --0·5 -o·o66o i +0·7

i

I
I

+3'7 + 7'4 + 6·9 + 7·6

26 May 3
IO

2

May

rdf;I

tl( r5
16 17 18 19

Apr. 26
May 4 4 4

Apr. 26 ( 16
May 91 9 9 9}!
9

:tJ:J lf 457 ({ ~.:J;; ( -0·1229 ~-::fJ}/ -0·1254 -0·1232 X\'" l __o~)--12n;-f +1·0344 1--~~1 +1·~342
16

/

f(
1

IZJ

0·835

/

-4·5 ('

+ 3·1
+ + + + 3·4 5·3 3·1 1·8 0·7

(

287912

1

!_±0·5
' +0·3 +1·9 -2·2 -1··
.)

/~~----29·8254
I

s IO s s s
7 7 7 7
7
JI

IO i

17 i 18 19 20 { 21 22 23
24

i 20
21 22 23 24

0·927 0·91>5 0·982 o·693} 0·692 0·8o5 1 ·028 1·1o6 1·038 1·o62 0·852

1

124·384 125·369 126·351 127·043 127·848 128·876 129·g82 131·020 132·o82 132·934

!

'1{ !

l

;

+0·3828 +0·3205 -0·2762 +0·7521 +0·7564 --0·1655

II

! I

+0·3825 +0·3186 --0·274e +0·7561} +0·7549 -0·1630 +0·4515 -0·0196 +0·1210 +0·4536 -0·08o2 +q632 -0·1209 +0·9081 +0·318o +0·1769

II

I --0·1642
I

+0·3826 +0·3196 -0·2751 J-0·7548

29·1738 29·4934 29·2183 29·9731 29·8o8g 30·2599 30·2412 30·3626 30·8139 30·7341

-2·5

8
8

8

I
I
:

8

5

25

25 26

+0·4504 --0·0178 +0·1218 I +0·4491 I --0·0794 I

I

+0·4510 --0·0187 +0·1214 +0·4513 -0·0798

I -1 ·1 +1·8 I -4·5 +0·81
(

+o·8

1 ·8 o·o + o·8 - 3·7 -- 2·9

~
0
><.::
~

'"d 0

~

7 r 26

Jl\31·
27 28 29 30 JI

I2j 26 12 27
12 12 12 14 14 15 15 25} June 8 May 23} 25 28 29
'0 .)

/ : - - - -,
0·677 0·968 o·Sg6 0·934 { :::: } 1·052 0·998

0·052

I

132·986 133·61 l 134·579 135·475 136·409 137·475 138·527 139·525 140·469 141 ·653 142·863 143·863 144·519

. ·--+1·4628 1 -{)·1193 +0·9055 +0·3169 +0·1725 {

' ----:' ---. I 1

i
. '
I

I

i

+q63o 1---=;.:;-1---::--_-;3-;-32·1 97 1 ,

.I I
JI II

14
11,

t~:~~

t~:~~!t} !

-0·1201 +o·go68 +0·3174 +0·1747 +0·5628 +0·6470 +0·3748 ·-0·2589 __]__0·8822 ;

I -2·6 + ·6
l

---30·6140 31·52o8 31·8382 32·0129 32"5757

00

.....
c.:>

I

-

I -5·1

-1·1 -4·4

I ·3 -- 3·9 - 5·0 - 9·4

cc

-14·5

14 14

31 XVI 32 33

XVI 32
33 { 34 { 351 36 XVII

June 8 May 16 25
16 16 25 16

0·944} 0·944
1·184} 1·184

{
{
I

+0·6489 +0·3731 -0·2549 --0·2593 +0·8881 +0·8815 -0·6930 +0·0598 +0·0670 --0·1385

+0·6450 +0·3766 --0·2633}1 --0·2581 +0·8744}' +0·8849 . -0·6888· I +o·o6g3}' +o·o661 I --0·1373 '

I

I

+n -3·5 +3·6 +5·2 -4·2 -4·3 -1·2

I

-10·6 -14"I -10·5

I

s ....
!:"'

~

33·2227 33·5975 33·3386 34·22o8 33·5299 33·5955 33·4576
~ c.o ..

-n
- 9·5 -13·8 -15·0

23134 35 23 36

~D

j{

1·210 0·995} 1·004 0·656

-o·Egog
+o·o656 -0·1379

!{
I

Reau/ls from geodetic spirit lcveli119 in .llisso11ri-Seco11d 1>art from Xew Haun to t'ici11ity of Jejferso11 City, 1888-Continued.
Hench mark.

bate, 1888.
FromTo-

Difference of height between bench marks. Distance between Distance from successh·c j initial mark K3 · bench marks. Forward mcasure. \Rackw: measure. Mean.
1

I

---- ------- -- --- -·-- --- - - - - - · -

-- - - - - - - - - - Discrepancy. Partial F-R.

0
Height of
mark above

~

Total accu-1 St. Louis marl< mu lated. K,.

1SS8.
May 16, 18 :'.\lay 22, 231 XVII XVIII 18 22, 23 XVIII 37

km.

km.

0·583 I ·144

145·102 146·246 147740 149·305 150·858 152·136 i53·oo6 153·919 154·893 156·104 157·468 158·550 159·511 16o·359 161 ·259 162·298 163·359

m. +0·9390 -0·8794

m.

+0·9389 -0·8799 -0·1331} -0·1383 +0·5816} +0·5786 i +0·5763 I +0·2436 I -r-0·3275 -0·1991 -0·2522} -0·2565 -0·2534 -f-1'00<)0 +1·1437 +0·0455 -1·0948

m. +0·9390 -0·8796

mm. +0·1 +0·5

111m.

111.

-14·9 -14·4 -15·3 --18·1 -24·2 --23·9 -25·8 -3o·7 -33·7 -35·8 -34'3 -30·9
-31·1

34·3966 33·5170 33·38o8 33·9582 34·1988 34·5264 34·3264 34·0700 35·0775 36·2201 36·2663 35·1732 35 ·5989 35·3933 36·8291 36·5026 36·4498

~ ill
Q

18 31 June 2 37 nlav 18 May 22}1 · 31;\lay 31,June J 38 June 4 June 4

22}1 2

38 39 40
XIX

I{

!{

1·492} 1·495 I ·566} 1·564 I ·564 ·553 I ·278 0·870 i 0·914}' 0·914 0·911
I

1{
I{
!

-·0·1412 -0·1321 -:-0·5681 l-0·5775 -j-0·5824 +0·2375 -;-0·3278 -0·2010 -0·2624 - 0 · 2595 -0·2547 +1·oo6o -1-1 ·1416 -1-0·0470

-0·1362 +0·5774 1-0·2406 +0·3276 -0·2000 -0·2564 +1·0075 +1·1426 +0·0462 -1·0931 +0·4257 -0·2056 +1·4358 -0·3265 -0·0528

-0·9 --2·8 -6·1 +0·3 -1·9 -4·9
-3·0 -2·1 +1·5

r:r>

~
'"-3

:>z
ti
ti:l 0 tl ti:l
~ Q

May 18

18, 19 19
I]

:'.\fay 21

39 21 40 21 I XIX

I

0

2

24 June 4
May 19

June

41
I

~1f\ 41

:: I{
43 44 45 46 47

{

....
::e
~

19, 24 l'llay 24 24{ 26 June I
May 26

May 21 June I :May 29}

42 43 44

June I 45 May 29) 6 June 1 f 4
May 29147

0·974 1·211 1·364 I ·082

ril ~

I

I{
i

0·96o} 0·962
o·8.i8 0·900 1·039 1·o61

i{

! I

-1·0914
+0·4~25

+3"4 -0·2 -4·2 +2·6 +1·4 +2"0

< ti:l

+0·4287 -0·2077 +1 ·4371 -0·3258 -0·0518

+0·4284} I +0·4233 -0-2035 +1·4345 --0·3272 -0·0538

26 26 26

28 28 :;:8

l

48 49 50

48 49. 50

51 I

-35·3 -32·7 -31·3 - 2 9·3

:z8

June 5 May 28 7une 5 5
2.Z

281- 51
May 28152 June 11 52

's2[(
03 /

0·726} 0·812 0"0<)2 0·820 0·832} 0·834 0·928 0·986
0·905 0·820 o·S17 0·942 0·870 0·314 o·739 I '223
1·002

.

-

(

-·-----·

-ro·5040 +0·2664

J

' -

.,.,- -,

/

+o·so27 { +2·o
I

5

s

22 ; 53 11 I 54 11 55

II}'

I

i

531 54 i { 55 I 56 !

{

i

-0·0465 -0·3289 -o·3304 -0·2724 +0·8934 -0·3543 +0·7511 -0·1016 +o·o6oo -0·0732 +0·4994 -0·0079

--

+0·2661

+o"] i
-2·6 j -2·61 o·o

I

j

-27"3 /

36·9525

--_;7-:-o_T_ --37-:2187 -30·0 i -32·6 -32·6 -37·1 -41·3 -40·7 -41·7 -40·1 -39·2 -39·1 -40·4 -45·4 --45·0 -40·8 -43·0 -44·7 -46·5 -45·3 36·5778 36·3067 37·2001 36·8481 37·6o13 37·4994 37"5599 37·4859 37·9849 37·9769 37·8169 38·6890 39·1051 39·0852 38·3150 40·0428 40·48o8 39·6353 38·8887 39' 1593 39·5121 39·6740 42·0705 39·5395 39·7478 39·8972
~ t?:j

-0·0464 -0·3239} -0·3301 -0·26g8 +0·8934

-0·0464 -0·3283 -0·2711 +0·8934 -0·3520 +07532 -0·1019 +o·o605 -0·0740 +0·4990 -o·oo8o -0·16oo +0·8721 +0·4161 -0·0199 -0·7702 +1·7278 +0·438o -0·8455 -0·7466 +0·27o6 _;_0-3528

-~--:-;-r-=;N-l--36-°9oo1

6 6 6 6

7
7

11 i 1 II 9 ! 9 ! 9.

7 7 7,
12

12

12 12 12 12, 13 13 13

9: 9: 9' 18 : 18 : I 18 I 18 i 18 ' 16, 18 1 16 ;

!

56 57 58 59 6o 61

57 : 58 i 59 i 6o ! 61 I
!

-0·3498 +0·7553 I -0·1022 i ; -+-0-0610 I -0-0748 I +0·4985 -o·oo8o ................... +0·4159 -0·0220 -0·7691 +1·7287 +0·4389 -0·8461 -o-7454 +0·2710 +0·3590} + 0 ·3556 +0·3495 +0·1612 +2·3966 -2·5302 +0·2078 +0·1513
I

I

'

-4'5

-4"2 +0·61· -1·0 +1·6 '
..l-0·9 1-0-1

i
i

62 XXI 63 64 65 XXII 66 67

xx

62 XXI 63 64 65 XXII 66 · 67 68
6g

xx

~ t-3
0
~

'ti

........

~

1·084 0·896 0786 0·844 1·039 l ·078 o·8o6 0·842 0·836} 0·838 0·837 1 ·192 0·097 0·656 0·778 0·838

176·41 I in·307 178·093 178·937 179·976 181 ·054 181·86o 182·702 183·539 184 ·731 184 ·828 185 ·484 186·262 187·100

+0·4163 -0·0178 -0·77 13 +1 ·7270 +0·4371 -0·8449 -0·7478 +0·2703 +0·3512 +0·3518 +0·3493 +0·1626 +2·3964 -2·5319 -f-0·2088 +0·1475

-s·o
+0·4 -t-4·2 -2·2 --1 ·7 -1·8 +1·2 -2·4 -0·7 -3·9 +1·4 -0·2 -1·7 +1·0 -3·8

__:_,.3

~

~ ~

~
.... :-<
t-3
~

lJ

13 21 21 14 14 14 14 14

~I}

16 : 68 16 j 69 6'
jO
I

I

70
jr

-47"7
-48·4 -52·3 -50·9 -51·1 -52·8 -51·8

21 ' 16 ; 7I i5 I 72 15 P3 15 ; 73 15 i 74

{

;{
I

72 P,
73 74 75

I

+0·1619 +2·3965 -2·5310 +0·2083 +0·1494

-55"6

~

,_.

.B011u1'1 fr0111 grodelic apirit letJeling in Miaaouri-Second part from New Haven to vicinity oJ Jefferson City, 1888-Continued. -·- -·---·-· ---·---. -------------,----------,----------Benchmark. Date, 1888. FromDiscrepancy. Difference of height between b· nch marks. Height of I markabo,·e Distance from - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i successil"'e initial mark K,. St. Louis mark Partial Total accuTo- bench marks. Forward measure. Backward measur Mean. K,. F-H. mutated. Distance between

~

t.:I

I

I

·------ - - - - - 1888. June 14, 19 June 19 19 19 25 26 28 25 25 26 26 25 27 30 27 27 29 20 20 20

!75

m,~J[ '' 26 79
28 '

76 77

76 77 78 79 XXIII

{
{
{

km. 0·911 o·go6 0·832 0·789 0·640} 0·638 0·643

km. 188·011 188·917 189·749 190·538

111.

11l.

11l.

1/llll.

11l11l.

111.

191·178 191 ·599 191 ·072 191 ·453 191·754 191 ·676

{
{

+0·1597 +0·5809 +0·5384 --0·0681 -0·3141 -0·3101 -0·3072 -0·3978 -4·8475 -0·226o -0·2239 +4·3750 +4·0272 +4·0194 -0·0624 -1 ·5940 +0·816o

+o· +o· +o· -o· -o· -o· -o·

+0·1584 +0·5796 +0·5397 -o·o674 -0·3094 :
I

+2·5 +2·7 -2·6 -1·3

-53·1 --50·4 -53·o -54"3 --56·6 -58·0 -51"7 -43·3 -43·3

40·0556 40·6352 41 ·1749 41 ·1075 40·7981

~

!Ji
Cj

I -2·3

~ C1'J

1-'3
Ii>-

23 20,23 26} 26 23

XXIII XXIV 8o 79 8o 81 81 XXIV

0·421 0·534 0·381} 0·381 0·301 0·938} 0·948 0·882 I ·214 0·191

Mean XXIV 28 82 } XXIV 30 28 82

I

192·619

30183 30 84

xxv

~1

193·501 iI 194 ·715 194 ·9o6 I

l{
I

------ - . - - - - +4· +4' -o·
-I'

-o· -4· -o· -o· +4·

l I

-0·3971 I -1 ·4 -4·8488 +2·6 -0·2292 +8·4 +4·3750 o·o

l

I
I
)

40·4010 36·2587 36·0295 40·4045

~
t:<1

0 t:l

C'l ti::

-5o~j--40·4028

+o·

+4"0222 -0·0613 -1·5942 +0·8152

+2"1 -2·2 +0·4

+1"7

-48·5 ·- 50·7 -50·3 -48·6

!

c

~

44·4250 44·3637 42·7695 43·5847

~ <
:<
t'j

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

33

DesC1·iptio11 of 111·imai·11 and secoudal'JJ bench markH beltt·dt'll Etlah, Mo., a11d vicinity of .Teff1:no11 Cit11, .llo.

Secondary B. 11[~ XV.-Berger, li'ranklin Uouuty, Mo. A limestone post 1·7 feet long, rough a·t the bottom aud dressed to 6 by G inches at the top to a depth of Ginches, was used as this B. M. It is buried 1·5 feet in the ground. It is situated on the west side of Mrs. M. M. Schaub's house, close to the wall of the foundation and 3·3 feet from the southwest corner of tbc house. 'l'his l1ouse is quite close to the track of the l\Iissouri"Pacitic Railroad (:'JO feet),just north of' the point where the main street of the village crosses it. Both comers of the stone 011 the south side are chippe<l off, a11d the stone appears to be rather soft. P1·imary B. llf. :N":,.-Hermann, Gasconade County, Mo. .A cross cut on the northeast corner (east side) of the stone f~uudation of the ''White House" hotel, A. C. Leisuel', proprietor, at Hermann, Gasconade County, l\Io., a11d the center of this cross was used as the bench mark. The cross is 1·24 feet south of the corner and 1·26 feet above the surface of the ground. This bench was marked as

u. s.
follows: B.
1888.

+l\L

N:1·

Secondary B. M. xvr.....:....Gasconade County, Mo. This bench' is the bottom of a square hole cut in the top of the stone abutment to the iron bridge on the Missouri Pacific Railroad across Coles Creek. 'l'he bridge rests on a poitio11 of the abutment which is about 4 feet lower tha11 that portion wher.e the bench is cut. Near the corner of the stone a cross is cut with the letters B. + M. B. M. XVI is 0·71)0 metre east of this, on the same stone. It is on the east side of the creek au<l. is north of the railroad. Mr. Eaffner lives near the creek, on the west side. The bench is marked as
l$

o .B. M. econda1·y B. M. XVII.-Gascoua1l<' County, Mo. This bench is the bottom of a i;;quare holll cut in the top of the middle stone pier of the .M:issouri Pacific Railroad bridge over the Gasconade River. It is south of the track and marked as follows:

follows:

u. s.

o {)' B. M. econdary B. JI[. X VIII.-Gasconade County, Mo. 'l'bis bench is the bottom of a square hole cut in tho center of the top of a limestone Post which was set in the grou11d in the yard of Mr. J, Wolter's dwelling and storehouse at Gasconade Station. The post is about 0·7 inetre from the southea8t corner of the 110use, which is situated abollt 100 feet south of the Missouri Pacific Railroa1l and about
!:l. ;Ex. l!l, pt. 2-3

u. s.

34

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

200 feet west of the railroad station house. The post is dressed to 6 by 6 inches at the top and is 18 inches long,· buried 15 inches in o B. M. Secondary B. Af. XIX,--'.Gasconade County, Mo. This bench is the bottom of a small square hole cut in the top of the sto11c fonnda· tion to H. Binkholter & Co.'s grain elevator at Morrison Station, Missouri Pacific Railroad. The building is about 6 inches insitlo the outer face of the foundation, and the bench is on this ledge, near the northeast corner of the building, which is situated quite near the track, on the south side. The.-stoue is so1t aud the letters aro roughly cnt; the bottom of the hole is smooth. This bench is o B. M. Primary B. Jlf. 0:1.-Cl1amois, Osage County, Mo. This bench is the bottom of a square hole cut in the top of the stone across the bot· tom of the side door to the saloon on the northwest corner of Maill and Pacific streets. Thif; door iH 011 the Paci.fie street side and faces the railroad. 'l'he building is a two-story brick, with imita· tion stone foundation. The bench is uear the west side of the door o B. 111. 03. 1888. Secondary B. M. XX.-St. .Aubert, Osage County, Mo. 'fhis heuch is the bottom of a square hole cut in the top of the stouc abutment of the Missouri Pacific Railroad bridge across - - - Creelc, opposiW the village of St . .Aubert. The bench is on the cast abutment, and is south of the track. The letters are very roughly cut. The bridge is about one-fourth mile west of the depot. The bench is marked o B. M. Secondary R. 111~ XXL-Near St. .Aubert, Osage County, Mo. Is 011 tb 0 north side of east abutment of the first trestle west of mile pos~ 106 on the l\iissouri Pacific Railroad, and i8 about 1 mile west ~ St. .Aubert Station and between it and Isbell Station. The B. l'tf. 18 a spot surrouuded by a square trench (about a.n inch square), witb the letters as follows: and is marked as follows: marked as ·follows: the .ground. It is marked on top:

u. s.

u. s.

u. s.

u. s.

TJ

Secondary B. M. XXII.-lsbell, Osage County, Mo. This bench is tb~ bottom of i~ square hole' cut in the top of the stone abutment~ the Missouri Pacific Uailroad bridge over J. . oose Creek. It 18 on the east abutment, aud is north of t4e track, It ii:! s~t~~ted. on

B M

o

s

rudely and slightly cut.

.

REPORl' FOR. 1893-P.ART II.

35

the step in the abutment on which the bridge rest.s, and is about 5 feet below the track. Near the corner of the stone a cross is cut, with the letters B. M., thus: B. + M. This bench is about one-half a mile east of Isbell Station. Marked as follows:

u s

o B M

''fhe stone is a soft sandstone and the letters are roughly cut. Primary B . .k P3.-At Bonnot's Mill, Osage Oouuty, Mo. It is oil the northwest corner of a brick bnilding used as a store and owned by Mrs. I~. Bonnot, arnl is ou the limestone block forming the corner stoue, which is about 8 inches square at t.he end all(l projects some 4 inches. The mark is a square cavity in center of projection, and has on upper surface U. S. o B. M. and on western face ·p~· 1888. The stone is 35 paces south of railroad. The exact B. M. is the bottom of the square cavity. Secondary B. M. XXIIL-'1'l11s B. M. is the surface of the stone inside a squar~ (o) cut on top of the fourth pier (from east bank) of the Missouri Pacific Railroad bridge over. the Osage River at Osage, Mo. The B. M. i8 under the center of the track and about the center of the top of the pier. Secondary B. 111:titXXIV.-This B. M. is the bottom of a square cavity cut in the top of a stone post set in the southwest corner of Mrs. Rm1sler's boardilig house yard at; Osage, Mo. The stone ];l\ist (limestone) is dressed to G by IJ inche:-> at the top and <i inches below; it is about 2 feet long and is set 23 inches in the ground. The top of th'e post is lettered as follows:

1°: SI B
J\1

Secondary B. M. XXY.-This is the bottom of a square cavity cut in the capstone on south end of west abutment of first trestle west of mile post 119 on the Missouri Pacific H.ailroad, between the Osage

us
a

.

l{iver and the Moreau Creek.

The letters

are. placed thus,

B M.

and roughly cut. (See route diagram, illustration No. 1.)
A.couracy of the 1n·ecedi'flg resultB fo1· 11eigMB.

The temporary marks of the line between St. Louis and New Haven a:e fairly regulai:Iy distributed, with au average distance apart of 1·9 kilometres; hence we may assume the weights for these partial liu~s to be equal and the probable error of a difterence of height of 1 kilometre from a. double measure (here two sim.ultaneous measures) becomes

·

r 11 =

· · /UlaJ o·67oy fTsJ

36

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

and the probable error for height of a terminal point at the distance S=[s] will be

r=O·G75JJ?f1
'l'hese expressions suppose the two measures to be independent one another; this, however, is not the case with simultaneous lines, the condition of the atmosphere at the time being the same for both, au.d this is also partially true of tlle co1Hlition of the instrument, so that the weight of results from two simultaneous lines is but little better than that for one line. Bxperimwe showed that in case of two simultaneous lines the above probable error Hhould be increased by its one-fourth part in order to approximate to a more correct Yalue. We have [ddj=69;"}·1 and fsJ=llfl·2; hence r 11 = :l- 0·83111111 and a1I<ling one-fourth, the corrected value· = ::!:: l·04mm, also r= :I: 1.1·2111111 · In the line between New Haven a11d vicinity of Jeff~rson the tem· porary marks are also regularly distributed, but only 0·9 kilometre apart on the avern,ge; here we havl~ [dd)=719·!1 and [11)=84·4; hence r 11 = d: 0·98mm and r= :-!: !!·06111111 · Also for first part of line leveling of
011e

of

/[ddJ, or the mea11 error of a single Y.:![sJ · kilometre, after increasing the r by its fourth part

m,=

m,= ±
aud for i-;ecowl part

!!·Hi 111111

m, = :I: 2·0fl

The probable error of the di1forence of height between 8t. J,onis (K3) aud vicinity of Jefferson (XXV)

+_

11 ·2 :1 9·1 = ,L 14·4111111

U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II.

No. 1.

Jef°feT'SOTL

City

0

Moreau Cree le. OsageCif;11

XIX XVIII XVII XVI

R

I

-------+'-~

5

Sou.th, Point.

U.S.C:oast and Geodetic Surwy

Rou.te L ui.e

or Geod.et.i.c Level..Ur:9
l>et.wt.¥."n

St.Louis and Jefferson, City Missouri
JBBZ and JBBB

x

Scale · Statute .Miles
!f5

Mera.m..oc

K" St-. Louis Ea.n. St-.Louis

J·
I,

APPENDIX No. 3-1893.

PiiOTOTOPOGRAPHY AS PHACTICED IN ITALY UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE ROYAL .MILITARY GEOGRAPIIICAL INSTITUTE, AND AS PRACTICED IN THE DOMINION OF CANADA UNDim THE AUSPICES OF THE DEPAHT:\-IENT OF THE INTERIOR. ALSO A SHOHT HISTORICAL REVIEW OF OTHER PHOTOGRAPHIC SUHVEYS AND PUBLWATIO:>;S ON THE SUB.rncT. Suhmittetl for
pnbli:~ation

December !l, 1893, by .J. A. 1-'u:mm, AHsistu.nt.

PREFACE.

.A topographic imrvey of a large area or of au entire country has been a~d still is a very laborious, time-absorbing, and expensive undertaking. Nearly all the European countries have such surveys of a more 0 r less elaborate and detailed nature, which are the fruits of ceaseless Work, begun many years ago, and in most instances the topographic 'Work is continued to this day, in order to maintain the value of the ?naps, particularly for milit~ry purposes, by making frequent resurveys, covering all changes subsequent to the time at which the original sur· '1eys had been completed. '.rhe ~ompletion of a topographic survey of the United States, executed on a i;ca.le t-0 be useful for general purposes, if undertaken 11ow, could not be witnessed by many of the present generation. \\Tith a l)ractical people like the Americans such au undertaking would prob· ably be looked upon with more favor if the generation that beg'ins this "'ork would also reap some of the beuefits thereof. 'l'he topography of this country is so diversified and the population is so Unevenly distributed over the same that the methods to be employed fo1· such a survey should also be diversified; the character n 11d value of the different sections should govern tl.Jc i~ccuracy and amounts of detail of the survey, in order to reach the quickest yet practically u~eful and "aluable results. b 11Iinute and detailed methods, with ensuing accurate results, should .,/'applied to cities and nll closely settled regions, to the coast, larger blVers, and lakes, and the work should be platted on a large scale. Arid, arreu, and mountainous regions, as well as prairies and swamp lands,
37

38

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEOD:Wl'IC SURVl<:Y.

should be more generalized in their cartogTapllic repre~mntatious and platted 011 a small scale. The new survey of Italy demonstrates this fully, and it is there that phototopography, the subject t-0 be considered in this paper, bas reached a high state of pel'fection undei· the auspices of the Military Geographical l11stitnte of that country. Photogrwmnetry proper (or metropltotography) sl1ould be applied to the art of taking 1>erspective views of buildings with a photographic camera for the purpose of constrnctiug therefrom the elevations and ground plans of buil<li11g;;. It is ui,;ed chietly for architectural purposes (remodeling, i11ustrati11g, copyi11g, etc.). The tenn JJ!wtotopography ;;J1011ld be generally adopted for all topographic surveyi,; based on perspective views of the tcrrm1e obtained by means of the camera. J>hotographie snrne,11, finally, could then be applied to all surveys based on photographic data. which do uot ilwludc the delineation of the terrene (uonhypsometric i;urveys). We have endeavored to give in the following pages a short review of the more important photogrnphic surveys, and of some of the publica· tions on photogrammet1·y and phototopognqihy, as well as a concise description of the general methods and principles of phototopography as practiced in Enrope and in tlte Domiuion of Canada, fo order that this branch of surveyiug may !Jecome more generally known, tested, and amplified also in thiH country.
SIIOR'l' REVIEW OF PIIO'l'OGRAl'lllC SUJtVEYS AND PUBLIC.A.'.I.'IONS.

In Europe the possibility of applying lJhotogrnpby for constructive and surveying purposes was r~cognized many years ago. Photographs obtained by aid of lense;; ground specially with a view toward reducing astigmatic aberration as much as possible aud giving a uniform extension of definition :tnd depth over a strictly flat field will represent geometrically trnc verspecti ves. Pbotogrnmmetry, or metropl10togrnphy, iH the art of ascertaining graphically the true dimensions of objects from their perspectives, in which the relative 1li1111msions of the objcctio; are changed and distort.ed (chiefly forcRhortened) and can not be ascertained by direct linear meas· urements in consequence of being represented in perspective view on it plane surface. The study of constructing geo1m~tl'ical dews and ground plans o( objects represented in perspective can be divi1lei:I into two groups or chapters. 1. To construct geometl'ical pla11H from perspectives, composed of regular figures and taken from points of view close to the objects thus represented, for i11sta11c1\, to construct. the elevations and ground plaus of buil,dings, machines, a11d tlie like from photographs tnk~u fro1ll stations sufficiently close t-0 the 1:1ame to delineate all detaili;. Tllii; art

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

39

may properly be termed photogrammetry Qt' metrophotography; it is of interest only to constructors, architects, paleolog·itsts, artists, etc. 2. The objects represeutcd in perspective are of inegular shape and at var10us distances from the stations or points of view, like distant landscapes, and it is desired to construct therefror'n, graphically, a. topographic map of the terrene, projected in horizontal plan. This art may be termed phototopograplly and it interests topographers, geographers, geologists, explorers, hydrographers, etc. Descriptive geometry teaches the laws which are to be followed when representing· objects by drawings on plane surfaces. The eye receives the natural i111age or the view of a~i object by aid of the rays of light-termed visual rays-which emanate from the illuminated parts of an object facing the spectator. If we regard the eye as a fixell point and imagine the rays of light; emanating from ditlereut points of the o~jeet in view, intercepted by a vertical plane, we will obtain a central projection ot· a perspective view of the object in the vertical plane. The greater. the distance of the object from the eye, the less great Will be the deviation of the extreme visual rays from the directi.on of the central ray; for au iufinite leugtll of tlle ceutral ray all the rays Will become parallel. If the picture or image of the o~ject is given us as a true perspective in a plane, we can~ inversely, construct therefrom a geometrical Projection of the olJject in a plane placed at right angles to the picture Plane, if we lmow the distance and relative position of tlle point of View with reference to the picture plane, and if we have views taken from a sufficient numlJer of stations in space to envelop the irregularly formed object in question. Regartling a photograph as a geometrically true perspective, photogrammetry will be the art of reconstructing· geometrical horizontal Projections from given perspective views. The theore.tical fundament · · lL which such reconstruc· tio11i. rest were known t Lambert in 17 ~Tiut"tlio fi~;t;···practi'caT !l.llJllicatiou of the same ie celebrated Freuch savant ~lld hy~rographer, eantemps-Beaupr , Idle on a s~ie~t~!lc ~~pedi- .. bion durm~ the yea s 17!11 to 17fla. A., ougli"tlie camera had not yet een invented, it is said-tlmt-Beautemps·Bcaupre was an expert sketcher, and he made perspective drawings and sketches of coast :regions while 011 that exped1tiou, from which, at a later period, he ;on1:1truct.ed topographic maps of it part of Van Diemen's Laud (now teUstnania) a1al of the island of Santa Cruz. Notwithstanding Beauuip1:1.Beaupr<i's fre<1uent alh1s1011s to the feasibility of this method of :.akiug reconnmssanc~s'1.1f\-ey~ topograpluc maps, nothing more Stas accomphshed nn~.Laussedat, 1 11;1or in the Freuch army, took the thUdy of this imlJject pin 18:iO siug, however, the camera to obtain e Per11pect1ves.

40

U. 8. COAST AND GEODE'l'IC SURVEY.

In 1839, shortly after Da8uerre had presented his memorial upon photography to the Academy of Sciences in Paris· through Arago, the latter called attention to the possibilities of photography in the Chamber of Deputies, where he said:
· · · Nous po11rrio11H, pnr exemple, 111irler <lo quolqnes i<lees qn'on n en Hur Jes moye11H rapideH 1l'i11veAtigatio11, 1111e le t.opograplw pom'l'a emprnnter :\ Ju photogra1ihie.
Gay-Luss~w similarly called attention to the prolmble adaptability of photography to topographic surveys. In 18;)8 Chevallier luul an instrument. patented which 110 called a "planchette photographique.'' 'l'his photographic plane table is mentioned and described by Alophe (1861), d'Abbadie, Bate (18U2), Jouart (186G), Tronquoy, etc. Jouart, Wigauowski, Bate, and others also made practical tests aud topographfo surveys with Chevallier's photographic plane table. Captain Cannette used the sextant a11d photographic camera to make topographic surveys, chietly of fortiticatiomi. In 1851 J,aussedat constructed a "< .amera. clara," which in 181)8 was superseded by the "camera obscnra" with additional improvements for surveying purposes, by Reyuault. Laussedat, as" chef du genie corps," made numerous experime11tal surveys and studies with Reynault's improved "camera obscura," partly on his own behalf and partly under the direction of the French ministry of war. He also was the first to make topographical surveys with the aid of hal10011 photography. During the years 1863 to 1870 he had the assistance of Captain, now Commandant, Javary, :who improved the French pllototheodolite and made experimental surveyi-; in the mountains of the Dauphine and Savoie, in the Yosges, a11d i11 Alsatia. 'l'he first practical survey of a more extended character made with the aid of photography in France was made by Laussedat in 18Gl, when lie mapped a portion of Paris and also the town of nrc1100Je under the auspices of the ministry of war. The area covered by this survey was 0·4 square mile; the fieldwork consumed sixty hours, aud the office work was accomplished in two months. OJ Pujo and Fourc~e published au article i11 Les .l\fondes, 1865, on "Goniometric photographique." Other publications in French are: Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences, Paris, XLIX.1859; L, 1860; LI, 1860; LIX, 1864; 1885 and III, p. 729-732, 1890. Magasin Pittoresque; XXIX, 1861. AnnaJes du Conservatoite Natioual des Arts et Metiers, 2° serie, IV, 1892. Comptes l{endus du Congres de Pan et Uevue Scientifique de 1892. "£lements de Photogramm(!trie," in Bulletin de la Soc. d'£ditions ~cient., Paris, 1891, by V. Legros. Application de la l'hotographie i't la 'ropogTaphie Militaire, par E. Pate. 1862.
0

REPORT FOR 1893-P.ART II.

'41

Memorial de l'Officier du Genie, No.
1874.

rn, J8:>4;

No. 17, 1864; No. 22,

Bulletin de la Societe de Geographic de Paris, Dec. 18(:12. Application de la Photographie aux Levers .iliilitaires, par A .·louart,
1866.

La Photogt·itpltit\ Appliquee aux i·:twles Geographiques, par .Jules Girard, 1872. D~ la .PhotogTaphie et. ses Applie~tt,ions aux Besoins de l'Armt~e, par Fl. Dumas, 187!!. La Photogra1>hie AppliqtHJe an J,evllr clPs Plans, par .J. Bornecque,
1886.

La Photograpllie cla1~s les Armees, pm· Alfred Hirnot, 18ia.. La Photograpltio sans Ob,iect.it~ iiar R Colson, 1887. La Nature (Paris). La l~evuc d'Artillerie (Paris). Bulletin de la SocilJLl! Frau~~aise de Photographio (Paris). Ll·s Levers Photographiqum; et; ht Photogrnphie en Voyage, par le l>r. <:ustave Le Bon, 188!1. Atmalm; du Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers. Edouard Monet: Pl'incipes Fondamentaux de la Photogrammetrie, published by La Soei1!te d'~ditions Scientifiqum1, No. 4 Rue Antoine-Dubois, Paris. In recent years the French ministry of war has had numerous experilllents made with balloon surveying (using both the. captive and free balloon), balloon photography being better adapted for military and secret surveys. France had an exhibit at the Wol'ld's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, 18D3, sl10wing photographic instruments and specimens in illustl'ation of topographic and astronomical results; gained chiefly under ~he direction of Ool. A. Laussedat and talrnu from the collection of the °nservatoire National des Arts et Metiers, in Paris, of which Bureau 0 0 1. A. Laussedat is tbe director. . ~he first German publication bearing on t\1is subject · . _bly .the . ~ticle in Horn's Photographisclte Mittheilungen, AiH'il, 18()' eing a erruan translation of A. Laussedat's explanations < escriptions, as given by him on .January 9, 18<>3, in a meeting of the French Photographic Society. ed'f!~· A. l\1eydeubaur's fir;;t publication on this subj<>ct. is in t h e @ th itiou of the Photographische Mittheilungen of 18<>3, where he uses ,, eh term '.'_n.h.otometrogra11)J.y," which was subsequently changed into ~'?.&:ramw~_try~,-;-- a ogel published, in the March number of the same magazine for 1866, ~\article on the use of .Johnson's photographic instrument for making "el~o~raphic surveys, showing the method of obtaining horizontal and ltical angles from the perspectives. heEver since Dr. Meydenbaur first became interested in this method endeavored t.o interest Gel'm<lin pl'ivate and Government surveyors

42

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

iu photogrammetry. He has been recently appointed director of the Photogrammetrical Institute in Berlin, founded by the Prussian Government as a brnnch bureau or the ministry of culture.. May 4, 1893, Dr. Meydenbaur (royal counsilor), gave a lectnrn 0·11 metrophotography, or photogrammetry, in the ministerial lmilding, under the auspices of Mr. Bosse, minii>ter of culture. Although this photogramrnetrical institute was founded several year1:1 ago, no official publications or reports have been issuell yet to the public. Professor Jordan, Dr, Doergens, Dr. Stolze, Dr. Vogel, and Dr. Hauck have done much toward popnlari:t.iug the photographic methods of surveying in Germany and Austria. Profossor Jordan published a trcati1:1e upon "'l'bc application of photography for geometrical represeu tatious" in the ~ei tschri ft filr Vermessungswesen, 1876, Heft !.l, Hd. V, and he voints out the future importance of photogrammetry in his closing remark: '' Photogrammetry can be applied with Uie greatest advantage in certain cases, e. g., for the survey of inaccessible mouutain groups and ranges, on scientific expeditions," etc. The first attempt at a pl10togrn1111netric survey in Germany was made under the direction of the Prussian ministry of war anu commerce iu 1867, when a survey of the town of Freiburg an<l also an architectural survey of the cathedral in Freiburg were made. The fiel<lwork was continued through four days and the area surveyed comprised about 0·04 square mile. 'l'b'e office work for the construction of the map consumed three weeks, while it took one week to draw the ground plan, one side, an<l one front elevation of the cathedral. Duriug the Franco-Prnssiau war phototopography was called into service by the German army, and a detachment of the engineer corps, under Dr. Doergens (later professor of geodesy in Berlin), was formed to obtain certain distances about the city of Strasburg with tue aid of a camera, during the siege of that city.. This detachment made· a m~ip on the scale of 1 tq 25,ooo of the besieged front of the city. However, the result was not utilized by the army, the city h;tving· capitulated before the map was fully platted. Professor .Jorclan, as member of Rohlf's African exploring ex1ledition in 187:~-74, made a phototopog-rnphic survey of the Oasis Gassr Dachel in the Libyan desert. In 1874 Dr. Stolze usecl a l\foydeubaur camera-theodolite to make a survey of the ruins of Persepolis, aud also a11 architectuml survey of tl1e moeque of D,iumfrht, in Shirai-:, Persia. In 1885 tlle students of the technical high school in Berlin, undel' direction of Professor Pietsch, used two instrnments specially con· structed to obtain views also under an inclined position of the optical axis of' the camera. '.l.'hey obtained satisfactory results from va.rio.uS ascensions made in a free balloo11, as well as from views taken on the ground for. ttrchitcctural purposes.

REPORT FOR 1893-P.ART II.

43

~r. ~· .M:eydenbaur: Das photographische Aufnehmen zu wissen8 ..:) afthcl.ten Zwecken, ins besondere <las 1\fessbildverfahren. Unte's ~lags-A11stalt, Berlin, 1892. Ii h ustav l~ritsch, iu Dr. G. Neumayer's Anleitung zu wissenschaftcFen Beobachtungen anf Iieisen. Hobert Oppenheim, Berlin, 1888. irn '~ Schi:6ner: U eber die photogrammetrische .A.ufnahme einer Kiiste 1 orbe1fahre11. l\fittheilung·en am1 dem Gebiete des Seewesens, 890 'I>ages 412-417. iis~.: ;:Iatferl : U eb~r Phot:ogrammetrie. Vortra~. W ochenscllrift des \T llg.- u. Arch1t.-Vcrems, 1890, pages l!l!l-'..!03. hirg~ Pol!oek: Ueber Anw('lnduug der J>hotogmmmetrie im Hochgel>ag " "\ ortrag. \-Y ochemmhrift d. iistr. Ing.- n. Archit.-Vereins, 1890,
es 207-!W!I.
-

Photography has al!:lo not quly found practical application in topographical surveys of Austria, principally in Steiermark and Karnten, but the art of phototopography has made rapid strides in gaining public favor iiJ that country, owing to the treatises and works published on this subject by Pollack, Ho:tferl, Steiner, and others, as well as to recent improvements in the instruments. The following are the principal publications in German 011 photographw surveying: Photogra.phisches Archiv, Septr., 18ti5. Zeitschr. fiir Bauwesen, 18G7. Archiv fiir die Ofliziere desk. preusK. Artillerie- und Ingenieur-Corps, Bd. G:3, 18ti8. Deutsche Bauzeituug, 187!!. Zeitschr. f. Vermessnngswm-1e11, Heft 23 and 2·.i, 1ss·1. Journal fiir die rei11e und nuge,vandte Mathematik, Bd. 9ti. Das Licht. S. G. Stein. Heft ri, 1887. (Photogramrnetrie, von V. Stolze.) Lechner's Mittheilungen aus dem Oebiete der J>hotograpbie und l\:artographie. lt Lechner, Graben 31, Wien. Dr. C. Koppe: Die Photogramruetrie, oder Bildmesskunst. \-Veimar, 1889. V. i:>ollock: Die photographischen 'ferrainaufnahmen mit Beriicksichtigung· der Al'beit in Steiermark. R Lechner, Wien, 1891. V · Pollock: Photogrammetrie nnd Phototopographie. Mittheilungeu der k. k. geogr. Gesellsch., 18!ll (pages 175-195), Wien. :Fr. Steiner: Das Problem der fiinf Punkte, eine Anfgabe der Pho. 1:ogra1umetrie, 1891. Wocheuscbr. d. ostr. Ing.- und Archt.-Vereins (Pages 214.-217). L Fr. Steiner: Die Photogmphie im Dienste des Ingenieurs. Ein ehrbuch der Photogrannnetric.. R J.,ecJmcr, vYieu, 1891. Fr, Scbift'nor: Die pbotographische l\:Iesskunst, oder Pbotogram· llletrie, Bildnrnsskunst und Phototopographie. Wilhelm Knapp, Halle a. S., 1892.

44

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Volkmer: Das W esen der Photogrammetrie. W ochenschrift des ostr. Ing.· u. Archit.-Vereins, Vol. XIV, page 157. Jordan: Vermessungskunde. II. Feld-La11dmessen. ]\fotzler'Rche Verlagsl.mchhan<llu11g, Stuttgart, 1893. In Italy we find, as previously rnentio11ed, tlmt phototopography has been brong-ht to a high state of perfection in recent years. Porro spent much time, labor, and e11ergy iu ·perfecting photography as applied to tachymetry and topography. 'l'hc result8 of his labors wer_e published in II Politecuico, Vols. X. aml XI, under ': Applicazione della Fotografia alla Geodesia,'' 1853, Saldiui, Milano. Porro's instruments have all been preserved by Sahnairaghi, director of the l'olyteclmic Institute at Milan, of which Porro was a member. In 1875 Manzi Michele, officer of the Military Geographical Institute of Italy, utilized some photographic views of the "Abruzzi ~'to supplement liis plane-table survey of the "Gran Sasso." l 11 187!i the same officer continued the practical application of photogr:tphy for the topographical survey of "1\1o11t Cenis" (Bart Glacier). The l\Iilitary Geographical Institute then decided to suspend :ill photographic work indefinitely, as many maintained that photographical data for topographic purposes were unreliable. In 1878 General Ferrero, chief of the geodetL:i department of the institute, called the attention of the directory of the institute to the desirability ofresuming the studies iu photogrammetry; and in the same year Jj, P. Paganini, engineer geograplier of the institute, was commissioned to proceed to the Alps, uear A1ma, to resume the studies in photography applied to topographic surveys, with a view to ascertain whether phototopography was economical and expe1licnt for practical work. During Paganini':dirst seasoH he obtuiued 17 cycloramic views, composed of 110 perspectives. A number of these perspectives were used to construct a map, in I<'lorence, on a scale of l to 25,000, of the marble quarries at Colonuata (Carrara), with bypsometric contours in intervals of 5 metres. In 1879 Paganini (using bromo-gelatin plates instead of wet plates, as heretofore, also having improved the camera theodolite) surveyed the Serra dell' Argentera, which"was platted on a scale of 1 to 25,000, with contours in 10 metres intervals. This survey was based upon panoramic views obtained from fifteen stations, on elevated points, comprised 113 1ierspective8, mid was the result of a field season of t'vo months and a half. Also, this map was constructed in Florence during the following winter, and it represents an area of 28 square miles. The contours were controlled by 490 points, the elevations of which had been ascertamed. In 1880 the same officer commenced the survey of the area bounded by the valleys of the Oreo, the Valsoana, the Cogne, and the Valsuva· ranche, representing an area of about 38u square miles. The survey of this area was finislu~d in 1885.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART 11.

45

However, since 1884 Paganini used au improved instrument, made by Galileo for tlle institute after plans submitted by Paganini. He also invented three instrnments which greatly facilitate aud accelerate the otherwise tedious graphic operations of the map construction from the perspectives, and which will be described later on. Paganini's results pr(!ved the efficiency ofphototopography for Alpine work, to be platted on a scale of 1 to 25,000 or l to 50,000, and the technical solution of the problem has been fully ei;,tablished. Owing to the untiriug efforts of the ofticers oftlle Military Geographical Institute, and the good results ,\,hich they obtained, phototopography has been adopted as an auxiliary to the plaue table for the new survey of Italy. In a more recent report ou phototopographic work by Paganini to' the first geographical congress iu Italy, he described his .latest improvements to the camera theodolite. An extract front this report, made by Fenner, can be found in the Zeitsehr. f: Yerrn., 189:3. A German tram;latio11, by A. Schepp, of Paganini's ''La fototopografia in Italia" can he fouutl in the imme peri?-~lie11.~. · 8!91 and 1892. 0. \V. Verner," Notes on military topogra1~y," 18!H. )A.Iso, Mechanics, Vol. II, p. 168, ''Application of photogra1)lry-tt1·-stli:veyiug." A short article on photogrmnmetry lias also been puulished by Henry 4-. Ueed, lieutenant, U 11ite1l States Army, "Topographical drawing and photography applied to surveying." Another work in English has been issued uy Allen, in Loudon. Civil aud Military Photogrammetl'y (read before the American Phillosophical Society, l\fay H, 1892), by R. Meade Bache, assistant, Uniwd States Coast and Geodetic Suryey. The following works are Yery explicit, and full of ~etails':',..~·... , Photography Applied to Surveying, hy Lieut. ll<fory .A. Heed, nited States Army. John ·wney & Sons, 15 ,Astor pl.a~, 1889. Photographic Surveying, uy .E. De\'ille, surveyOr~al, Canada. ?ttawa, 1889. This work, unfortunately, is out of print. Only a lim~ted number of copies had be' printed, chietly to supply the Dominion and surveyors. .. f ' ,

a ((· (· "'\
(

i' r- ~·t-A/ef l) ':> c'·"~ c; s

A....

INTRODUCTION.

Topography (clescriptiou of localit;y) :,;erves to represent a11d describe, in horizontal plau, limited areas of the earth's surface, showing vertical and horizontal distances (the relief) between poiuts of the area thus represented. 011 every topographic map, therefore, tbc characteristic lines and forms of the terrene, including natural objects which appear on the earth's surface, must be recognizable with more or less mi11ntc detail, according to the scale and purpose of the map. Generally speaking, the scales of topographic maps vary from 1 to 10,000 to 1 to 200,000. On a larger scale than 1 to 1O,O<JO such maps are chiefly used for constructive (engineering) purposes; they show all artificial as well as natural objects on the earth's surface, and they are the result of special surveys for special purposes. Maps on a smaller scale than 1 to 200,000 are designated as geo· graphic maps. Tlieir topography is generalized t-0 show only pronii· nent and characteristic features (mountain ra11ges, valleys, plateaus, seas, lakes, rivers, etc.). The topographer inspects tbe area to be mapped and intuitively sep·, arates characteristic foatnreR from minor detail. He immediately, 011 inspection, recognizes what is to be shown on the map, and consequently embodies only such topographic features of the terrene as will bat· monize with the power of representation of, the adopted scale for the work. It is useless to locate features during the in~trumental surveY which are too small to be represented on the scale of the map. .All. expert topographer will make a topographic map of a given area ill the least time necessary, yet Rhow all characteristic features that call be drawn and represented in harmony with the scale of the map . .After a system of triangulation has been extended over a countr1 and tl1e topograv4ic details of the same area llave been gathered b~ a series of photob"I'apbic panorama views, taken from these trigono· metric stations, aud supplemented, where needed, by views taken froJll other points (the latter to be subsequeutly connected with the triangll· lation by resecting or otherwise), an experienced topographic drafts· man mtu select all characteristic topographic featmes from sucb photographs, for mapping purpose s, with the same goocl result as iM 46

REPORT FOR 1893-PAUT II.

47

topogr&pher would select them iu nature from the same area, as shown in the photographs, were he to draw tlrn map in the field (plane-table method). If by a simple graphic method such selected characteristic points on the photographs can be platted upon the map, a great deal would be gained -in the survey of certain regions and nuder certain conditions toward a saving of time and money, compared with the instrumental methods of topographic st~rveying· as generally practiced. At present phototopography can not replace instrumental topogmphy; still, experi~ encc in Italy, France, Canada, Austria, and Germany has proven it to be a very valuable adjunct to the plane tablo a!ld transit for topographic surveys of rugged mountainous regions, if they are not too wooded. The followi11g· 1lescriptiou of photographic instruments and methorls is chiefly it condensed extract from the previously mentioned article priuted in the Hi vista di Topogratia e Catasto, 1889, by J;, r. Paganini, engineer of the Royal Italian l\iilitary Geographical Institute~ followerl by a description of instruments as used and methods as practiced in Canada, with a 1>hort reference to German, French, aud Austrian iustrumen ts.

CHAPTER

T.

THE l'HOTUGRA:\li\lE1'RlU APl'ARA'l'UH-PIU.NCl[>AL COMPONEN1' PARTS OP THE PERHPEC1'IVEH.

Figure A shows Paganini's Italian llhotogrnmmctric apparatm;. It bas a tripod· which can be dismembered into three "al pens tocks" A, A, and A, a. theodolite, a11d a camera 0. All thn·e parts can be firmly unite<l by means of spiral springs and screws. The three screws S, of the tripod head H (but two shown in draw· ing·) support the theodolitP, a111l the camera 0 i;; supported by a:nother set of three screws S,', 8/, and S:i', which arP connected with tlte hori· zontal limb of the theodolite in such a manuer tlmt the camera can be revolved about the vertical axis of the theodolite. A spirit level L and telescope '1' are 1mpportecJ by au upright piece U, placed at right angles to the 110ri:wntal li111b of the theodolitl~ and at one side of~ but close to, the camera. - The tele;;eope 'l' is provi<led with two cross ltail':'I (mm yertical and the other horizontal), in the mmal adjustable manner. The camera. bo" is made of l1arde11ed pasteboard:-;, which am stifl'e1wd hy a meta,l skeleton casi11g B. 'J'lrn camera is provided with a11 aplanatic objective (antiplanet), made by Steiuheil, the focal length of whieh is 244·5""" and the aperture in the diaphragm has a diameter of 5 1111 "Uegarding· the general arrangemeut of the camera, it may be said that1. The optical axis of tht~ photographic lens (objective) i~ vertical to the image plate I. 2. The intersection 0 of the optical axis and image plate I is marked on the latter by the point of interseetion of two very fine plati· num wires p 1 and p,, placed at right angles to each other and verY near the image plate I; when iu adjustment one p 1 of these fine wires is horizontal and the other Pz vertical. The optical axis of the camera can be adjusted in horizontal plane bY means of the three milled head screws 8 11, J:)z', and S/ which support the camera. The horizontal ·wire Pi is adjusted (after the instrument has been carefully leveled up) in horizontal plane by finding soll'.le easily identified point on the ground-glass plate I, which is bisected by this wire, and by gently revolving the camera about the vertica.1 axis of the instrument; if the wire Pi is in horizontal plane, tb~ observed point will be i>een to move along p 1 during the reYolving' motion of the camera. Should the bisected l>Oint upveal,' ~il)oYl,I or
.18

U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report fo; 1893.

Part II.

No. 2.

I

\
A
.

\
,

A
VI.

..,,.1

/\ .J\...
11:

\

Fi e,A
ITALIAN PHOTOGRAMMETRIC APPARATUS.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

49

below the wire p 1 at any time during the revolution of the camera, the same must be adjusted in horizontal plane by aid of the two forward screws S 11 and S/ which support the camera. The camera is provided with a short tangent screw t, by means of Which the same can be slightly moved in azimu~h, while the telescope and horizontal limb of the theodolite remain Rtationary. This will enable the observer to place the optical axis of the camera parallel to that of the telescope T, provide1l both are adjnst<'d in horizontal Plane. 'fhis correction is made b;r observiug some distant point in the intersection of the cross wires of the telescope and then clamping the theodolite. The camera is now moved by rne:ms of the tangent screw t to the right or left until tht~ same point appears in the intersection 0 of the two wires p 1 and p~, it being already bisel'.ted by the carnera wire p 1, as descl'ibed in the preceding adjustment. '.rhe points of the camera cross wires p 1 and Jh appear upon every Plate taken with the camera, and as these plates are vertical to the 0 Ptical axis of the camera, the perspectives obtaiue1l after the camera had been adjusteu, aR described in the preceding paragraphs,· are in \tertical plan and each shows t.he principal l>Oint of view O, as well as the two axes, p 1 and 11 2 , intersecting each 0 ther in O at right angles. The line ]>1 represents the horizon of the station wlience the Dicture was taken. Instead of the fixed platinum wires 1Ji and 2 ' some recent instruments (among otllCrs hose used in Canada) have a set of teeth ~tta-0hed to the camera, cfose to tlic plate I, ;s shown in figure 1. If solar prints are nse1l t~~ the map construction instead of the plates, J.'m. t. ~Fl arrangement is more desirable thuu that of the fixeq wires, as the ~l'llJ.ts will unuvoidubly be a little distorted. The lines p 1 and JJ2 are t teferably drawn in re<l ink on the prints after their positions in regard co the teeth have been experimentally ascertained or chcckeu. Great . aare nu1st be exercised in locating these lines properly, as they form is rectangular system of coordinates to which every point in the picture al referred during the process oft he subsequent map construction. They ~aso aid in ascertaining the value or the constant focal length of the lllera. l>hl!'igure 2 shows tl1e longitudinal section of 11 camera witli the diaOn;agm AB in position, tlle aperture of which is 5 111111 in diameter. · th e Y such rays of light, emanating from a point, N, in nature, will reach p . ..____ 0 111t n on plate I which form a cone around the central ray nON

!

..;,_----------.

the t ftcr a ]mrspoctivo hnH beci~ taken nucl it appoars uosirnble to obtain a view of lllellterr~uo immediately below (or above) tlrn aamo, tho conHtruction of tho instruab0,,. ;viH Per1111t a, dcprot1siou (or uu olevntion) of tho optical axis of 30° bolow for 0 the horizon. f:l. Ex. l!J, I>t. 2-·!

---

--·- --------- ---- -

---------·-

--- -

.

------------ ---- ------------

50

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

with apex inn and base in 0 of 5mm diameter. (In our diagram, figure 2, this base will be au ellipse with 5mm length for the short axis; the cone of rays emanating from a point, O, would be intercepted by the plane of diaphragm AB in a circle of 5111111 diameter.) The camera lenses are so focused that even for the largest diaphragm aperture used all

I
points from 10 metres to infinite distance from o, will be ciearly photo· graphed with a maximum error of li 111111 , as will readily be seen fro1JJ the following discm1sion: n=distance of object from 0 (10 metres to infinite distance). /=prindpal focal distance (240111111 ). b=focn.1 distance, variable for different lengthi-; of 11. From the well-known relation:
1 I 1

f=n+b
we find
aj'

b=11-f

(1)

By adopting 240 111111 as value for j~ a111l 1mhstitnting different values, from 1 metre to :rno metres, for a, in formnla (1), we ohtain the fol· lowing value:;.; for b:
(t

u (iu 111m.)

(i11 m.)

1
:nr,·8

10 :.!15·!1

~o

:!-1~.!l

:io 2-11·0

·lll :!'1'·l

50 :!.i1·1

,., 2-10·7

1uo 240·;,

200

aoo

2.io·2 240·02

The error, therefore, in maintaining the focal distance constant is 6'"~' if tlw object is 10111 distant from the image point; i~ J 111111 if the object ~s 50-lOOm distant from the image point; hi i11ap]lreciable if the OQject 15 300 111 or more distant from the imag·e point. The value ~ of the err~r (distortion), maintaining a constant focal diS· tance = 24Qmm in the photograph for points at clifferei1t distances, c1t be seen from the fo11owing: d Assuming again that the plafo I iH held in a fixed position fl11 t 2oomm <lista11t from the "image voint" (principal focus), it is evid 011
11

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

51

that the plane of image I will intersect some of the cones of rays (passing through aperture of diaphragm) in a circle (or in an ellipse) instead of intercepting their apex. From the foregoing table we see that this circle of diffused rays will increase in size with the decreasing
I

-:::-.-:-::..-:_:_:.:..::::,,~.!~·-~~diam.·
-00

a.

.

x

E
t!
~

t!

E

.,_)

u

Q)

~ C?

..c

L...............

0 . -·-··-a· .............. -.......L...........f- .. ···- .... __ j
Fm. :1.

~

I

di~tance of the object photographed. 'rhe leng·th of the diameter, x, of this circle (or ellipse) can be asccrtainecl from the following· relation
(fig. :i):
.1·:

<>=/:I(
(0

.I'=" II.

It' We assnme this apertlll'!~, V, in t.he 1liaplirag·m, to he :i 111111 in diameter, and assume the !'<a.me vahws for l a111l a. as find the rt'speeti vti values for .r as foll~ws:
a (ill Ill.) .,.... Ill x (il11nm.. ): ·O·I~
~"
l)'Ofi

i11

the preceding, we
.'ill!·
o·ooa

:10
o·o..t

.111
1H1::

;,o
11·02;,

"'
o·Olti

o·uJ~

IUO

~IHI
11·0t11i

:11111
o·oo.i

100
o·ou:c

700
O-<X.12

1000 0·001

~he di~meter, .1:, oft.he 1~ircle

----

(or ellipse) is 1widently qnite small, and e mamtainiug of a co11sta.11t. focal distanN1 can be well carried out for 1 Practical purpoRC8 without. appre1·.iable orrm·." a1

· 'I'! ··-.. - ··----.. e te 1 ~ apparatus descril1111l in thiH pap1ir is provi1lrnl with n metal grnduntion plnto, t le ndiug iu tho dirortion of th·· camera axis, :1111! hnaring- a Rcra'll\·.h to mark the t~:a.l length of the c1tmom when focnso1l 11po11 ohject.H at. inti1iito 11ist1Lnco. From 18 en scrntch, townril tho Re11Hitive pl a.to of thn cn111orn, a millimef.ro graduation is fo ~i·aveil upon thii plat<', l,_,. 111nam1 of whi··h tho ohsN\"l'r can 1lir··ctly mellsure tho oh~nl l~ngth of tlw enmom if the HILlll'l is changell at 1111,1· tinlll for any pictures. Tho sp~octive cylin1lor c::111 Lio 1110\·ml in the direction of tho 1·amora axis br mcnns of n ll'nl groove cut into a Rocollll eylindor which iR firm!~· nt.tncheil to tho cnmorn, and 118 fo One tnru of thiH scrnw is e<J11nl to an axial motion or l millimetro, the cha.ngo of thcue cuu rea.1lily ho ascert1t111tl1! to 011e-to11th of a mill11nof.r11, 11.1! will be clm1cribod in e following: gl~y revolving the external cyli111ler, thn metal ~trip or pluto ntt:i.cheil to the same, "'h ea a.round tlw outer surface of tho inucr cylil\!l11r (tirmly ntt.nchctl to tho cnmora), 1 iJ g ~~ bears 11 c1rcnlnr Rcrntch lying in a plnno v1n-t1eal to tho ea111tirn. axis n.nil pasRl>lllt ro11gh t.!1e constant focus (or through a pomt who·o d1·tnnco from tho image 6 equals tho 1irincipul focal length). This circular scratch is 1.hv1ded 1uto ten

1

52

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The distance of the point of view from the perspective plate, the principal point of view 011 the perspective, and the line of horizon can always be ascertai11e1l or rectified by iustrumeutal observations and computations, or graphically, ai:; haH beeu indicated, a.1111 as will be shown more fully .. We have described how tlw optical axeH of the telescope aud of the camera can he brought in.to two vertical parallel plaues. Both can be kept in this position aud yet be revolved about the vertical axiH of the instrnmeut. '.l'he horir.ontal limb of the theodolite is diviued into 3600, with subdivisions of 20', and by means of two verniers 30" can ho read. The vertical circle is proviued with tl1e same graduation. 'l'hus the meaus are given to ascertain the a;,,inmthal positions of the optical axis for each perspective; or, iu other words, the means for orie11tation are thus provided for. 'l'he magnetic a;,,imuth of the principal ray of the perspectives (i.e., direction of optical axis for each exposure), or the horizontal angle made wit.h any other line passi11g through the station and some lmowu poiut (e. g., trigonometrical point), can readily ho ascertained. All the perRpectives which are to be used for rnappi11g must be obtained from stations with known geographical positions. Generally trigonometrical points are 8electcd for photographic stations, but' if other pointH have to be occupied the elements needed (horizontal and vertical angles) to 1leiermine their positions with respect to 8nrrouucling triangulation points, can readily be observed by aid of the theodo· lite before leavi11g the camera station.
equal parts, and the metal scale, pasaing over this graduu.tCll ring when the objective tube is moved townnl tho sensitive plntc, will imlicutu by its positioi1 on this circll· Jar scale the number of tenths of millimetres it h118 movCtl beyo111l the number 0£ millimetres which nrc rcn<l off on the metal scale lirst rncntionccl. Thu focal length it1 a very important factor in nll phototopogrnphic work, aucl it ii; a<lvisahlo to vorify at; the beginning of operations tho reading of tho m.,t.al scale, and if the principal focal l<lngth .is cha11gcd, 1.ho 11ilfonmcc mnst lie en tercel iuto tbe notebook, so that tho proper correction cuu uo applied later on.

CnAP'l'EH

IT.

FUNDAMEN'I'AT. PRINCIPLES 01" J>HO'l'O'I'Ol'OGRAPIIY.

It was comparath·ely easy to obtain n, close con11ection between the Phototopographic stations a11d the uew triangulation of Italy, as the eo1111nittee who had charge of this tri:ingulation has provided Italy With a generous :tll(l harmonious disposition of triangulation points, Which have been very carefully located, their exact positions computed and perma11e11Uy marlrn<l in the tieid, irrespective of the cliaracter of the surrou11tling topogTaphy or of the order of triangulation to which tliey belong. 'I'his great number of tl'iangulatiou poiuts uot 011ly facilitates the allPlicatiou of the camera aud assnres the accurate determination of the panorama statio11s, uut it also simplifies the imbsequent map construetion, as the greater part of the per8pective contains oue, two, or niol'e tria11gulatio1t poiuts, altliough the im;trnmeut c~ommauds a field v·lew of but 420 horizontally . . . 'I'hus all cardinal poiub; of the perspectives can readily be a.djus~ed, the I>ictures arc easily orie11t.atc1l for the map construction, and the ;alie1tt topographical featurefl, 1lcduccd from the perspectives, can be req11ently checked. '.rue camera nsed for this work gavo pictures of 18·tl x 14··m (t.he plates \tete rn x 24·5''"'); the h~11s co11trollcd a field of 42° horizontally and 520 ;~rtically (21)0 above ai11l 2no helow the horizon). Hecently, however, ti e lcJH> of the camera has been exchanged for one with a principal roca1 length of 240111111 i11 order to nse plat.es of 18 x 24cm, which size is e~ily supplied by photograpliic dealers. it .' 0 r au exact deter111i11atio11 of the primary points of the perspectives ll 18 necessary to measure the "coordi11ates" of the points in question 11 the perspectives ns aummtely as possible. To insure good results Of es~ ~ueasurements should be made upon the negatives with a pair <le t~iv1ders made especially for this purpose, by means of which the ~ired distances are ohtai11e1l in millimetres and tenths. Qe econdary and t.crtiary points need not be obtained with the same f.:irigree of accuracy as the primary points (needed for the control prinll.i !tlly), and as tbc plates are not well ndapted for the making of direct 11 :a~uremc11ts tl>el'eou, uor for the marking of identical points with fornierals or other characters, it will be better to take all measurements <ih secon<la.ry and tertiary points from the prints, as the permanent anges which such prints undergo, compared with the negatives, a.re,

te?

!i3

54

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

when some care is exercised, haruly ever greater than tbe irregularities which can be discovered in any drawing on paper, 110 uuttter how carefully made. ·The perspectives (panoramic views) which are to subserve the map making, and some of w]1icl1 arc alf.;o to be reproduced as illue.tratio11s to accompany certain maps of the Alpine ranges, are obtained by ten successive exposures. After the camera lms been adjusted at a panorama station, it will have to be revolved about the vertical axis through an angle of 3G 0 after eacl1 exposure, and, as each plate subtends a horizontal angle of 420, the two euds of adjoining· plates will lap over by a vertical strip of the horizo11 of 3°, or each 011e of two adjoining plates will have a vertical 1nargi11 of 15111111 width reproduced on the neighbori11g plate. Figure 4- shows the horizontal projection of the positions of ten plates (1' 1 P 2 · · · · 1' 10 ) at a panorama station. YJ> 1 = Y P 2 =-= · · · · Y I' 10 =/=principal focal le11gth of camera= 24·h'i 111111 ·

- -·-·-b

s

F11;. 4.

The common margins of two i-uljoining plates serve principally to ascertain whether the adjustmc11tK of the instrument have been dis· turbcd during tl1c occnpaucy of a station. Should, for instance, the position of the horiw11tal thread lmv1~ been distnrbed by some cause, this wonltl be shown by different results whe11 measuriug tlie ordinates of identical points ol' two ad,ioi11i11g mm·gfo~:. These margins aJl:lO serve admirably fol' tl1c corre·:t t:rim111i11g- of the eclges of adjoinillg pictures jf they are to be 1itte·l togPtlwr for the panorama. The horizontal projectio11 of the ten plates exposed from oue pa110· rama station is a regular decagon (Ilg. 4 ), with a. radius of the inscribed cirele equal to the principal focal length ol' the camera. After the pm;itiou of one panoramic view has been found 011 the 1nHP · (i. e., after the angle figure 4, has been plotted from the station ]!to

w,

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

55

the triangulation point, shown in the figure), the orientation of all the other plates is accomplished by addiug 3Go, 720, 10so . to the angle 11.1; thus the en tire decagon ca11 be plotted after the horizontal projection of plate P 1 has l>een oriented with reference to the station V and the triangulation point plotted on the map. The orientation in horizoutal plan having been umde, it will be an oasy matter to draw lines of direction from the platted c:nnern station t-0 points photographed in the panorama. The plate m m' "n 1 n, iigure 5, may represent a vertical and oriented Perspective and 00' be the line of the horizon of said plate. Vis the Point of view; w' represents the angle of orientation for this plate in

v

o'
n
z
n·

reference to the sec011dary point A (i.e., the horizontal angle between the direction from v to a' and the vertical ray v p to priucipal point of '\'' iew P of the perspective). VP f is the princip;~l focal length. lf .A represents a point of the terrene in space and lt is the representation of the same on the plate, and if the vertical a a' haK been drawn from tt upon the line of 110r1zon Ooi, then Pa'=.v will be the abscit>sa. of tlie point a. 1''rom the rectangular triangle V I 'li 1 we find:
x =/tan w'

Figure 6 shows this triangle as V' .P' a' in the plane of the drawrng; PI h · th= 0 ~1zo11tal projection of thti principal point of view (I' in fig. 5) of h e horizontal projection O 0' of the plate (11i m' n' n in fig. 5) which bad been o~ientecl in the plane of the map uy the direction Y. S (or rather Y the horizontal au_gle UJ' fig. G) to the triang·ulation poiut S.

56

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In order to draw the harizontal projection of the ray from V to the point A (fig. 5) the distance I'' a', (fig. Ii) = J> <i' (fig. 5) = x is laid oft' upon 0 0' (fig. (i) from P', in the sense of direction to A (whether to the right or left of the vertical thread). '.l'his abscissa xis taken from the picture by means of a pair of dividers as the radius a p (fig. 5). After drawing a, line from V' through a' (fig. G), this line Y' a' will be the horizontal direction of the ray YA (fig. 5). The position of A' (horizontal pn~jectio11 of A plotted on the map) will he in the' intersection of two or more lines of direction, obtained, in a similar manner, from other pictures containiug a and taken from other stations. The same refers to all other points of the terrene, if their pictures can be i1le11tified upon plates taken from different panorama stations. Every perspective containing- the .picture of a triaug-ulation point will give cwidence of the gr~du of accuracy for the relative plotted posi-

0
I

--·
-·--

-· A.

0..

. o.·
5'

tions of the horizontal pr~jections of the point of view and of the per· spective, ns well as for the orientatiou of the plate, by laying off upon O 0' (fig. G) tlw abseissa ;r' of' the tri.:iugnlation point S and drawing the line V' S', which should uisect tl1e plotted llOint S. If the horizontal projection of a point, A, has been determined by the intersection of two rays from two statious, V 1 au<l Y 2 , a check is obtained if a third plate, taken from another camera station, V 3 , shows the same point, as all rays to tbe same object, A, must intersect each other in the same poi11t on the map. The hypsomctric 1leterminatio11s of the terrene can readily be accomplished after the selected points have lJeeu determined and plotted in horizontal plan in tl1e foregoing mam1er. If the elevation of' the sta· tion V (fig.()) is known, the elevation of the line of horizon 0 0' ou the plate mm' n' n can be easily obtained by adding the height of the instru· ment to tlie elevation of the Htation Y. The elevations of all the points

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.

57

on the plate which are bisected by the line 0 ()' have the same elevation as the optical axis of the iustrumeut at the statiou V, disregarding the effects of curvature and refraction. '.l'l1e apparent elevations of other secondary points, selected from the plate for the construction ot the map, are obtained by determining· their elevatious above or their depression below the liue 0 0'. If ]) =horizontal distance of a point .A from the station Y; =VA' (to be measured on the map) (fig-. 5); l~ =difference of elevation between point ..tl and i;tation Y; =A A' (A 'is the projection of A npou the horizontal plane through optical a.xis of instrument at station V); d =horizontal distanc() of the picture of A from V; Then we have from the similar tria.11gles I' a' a. and VA' A the relation:

J,: D=y: d

; 1)

/, = .l>y
d

(2)

From the rectangular triangle Y /'a.' we find:
d= __ /

cosw'

=/secw'

'"hence:

L

1>11 = !sec -.-----'--m'
GiJ'

ll.111]

Should the point A lw hiscctt>1l h~· tlw vertical thre:ul then sec w' =l, or:

= 0

.I~= !JY f
. (F9rmula. 3" would answer for :tl1 points of the perspective if the llage plate were a cylindrical xnrl':u·c 01' radius =/instead of being- it lllane, if the deea.gon were a. circle.) '.l'he differences of elevation, taken from the perspectives, are positive : llega~ive ~ccor~iug to the relatin1 position:-; of their points in respect t.Q the hue ot l10r1zo11 0 0', whether above or below the same. In order th ~btain the apparent elevatious of these points above mean sea level ei1· ordinates must be added to or subtracted from tlie elevation of the ~alllera station. Two grnpliical instruments have been constructed i ased Upon the formulas (1) and (2). 'l'he OIW scr\"0S to locate the points -~ horizontal plan by iutersect.ions after their abscissm (.r) have been ti ea.sured upon the perspectives. The other serves to ascertaiu the difa~nces of their elevations compared with the height of instrnment lli r the abscissm (.v) aud the ordinates (y) of the poi11ts have been ea.sured. upon tlie perspectives. ll l'he use of these auxiliary instruments euaules the d~·aftsman to <lis)'.):~.se ~ith the construction of the decagous (representing the horizontal th ~eetious of the panoramas about tlle plotted camera stations), and as al~e Polyg·ons must be very carefully drawn, the dispensing with them gether, especially if' the area to lw plotte1l is extl·nsive awl the sta11

58

U. S. COAS'.r AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

tious numerous, will save much time and labor. It is particularly desirable to avoid the drawing of these polygons if the plotting is to be done on 1 to 25,000 or 1 to 50,000 scales, as the numerous decagons will intermingle in such a maimer that great care and painstaking must be exercised to avoid ~onfusion in seleeting the proper lines from the intricate netwol'k of lines npon t.he face of the drawing. Au attempt has been made to overcome this <liflicnlty by drawing the di11erent polyg·ons in lines of <lifterent colors, but even this expedient failed when plotting on small scales. Also, the hypsometric determinatious of secondary points can be cl1ecked by comparing tl1e elevations obtained in the preceding manner with the results obtained in t1te same way from other stations a11d on other plates. Furthermore, any perspective contaii1i11g 011e or more triangulation points (the elevations of which arc determined by double zenith distances, or by any other instrumental method) will i-;erye to check the horizontal a<ljustme11 ts of the in:,;trument (luring the exposure of such plate, by comparing the elevation obtained from the pen;pective with the elevation of the trigonometrical point obtained by former instrumental measuremeut,i-;. Should the elevations of the tna11gulation points be unknowu, this <:heck ca11 still be made by usi11g· the vertical circle of the instrument arul mmii,;uring the vert.ical angles (a, Jig. :i) from the pauorama f>tatiou to the 8UlTOllllding triangulation }lOints. lly obserV· ing vertical angles from every camera i-;tation, a d1eck 011 the measured values of the onlinateH 011 the perspectives is obtained, i11as111uch as then these ordinates can be corn1mted and compared with those obtaiued by direct measurements on the perspectives. l·'rom the tria11gles V .il'A a11<l I' a/ 1i we litHl (fig..i):
. ta11 A. I· A' = tan
1r
/I =L D= d

Accor<liug· to formula (:!") we !tad
1l ''"' -- - -·
(

eos w'

therefore:

ta11 a

=

J<'.OH

rd

( 4)

where m' is the 11oriw11tal angle form(·d at l' hy the vertical plane containing the line of direction from the camera station Y to the triani,.rU· lation poi11t and the vertical plaue containing the li11e drawn from V 1:0 the principal point P of the perspective, which horizontal angle ca.n also be measured directly ou the l1orizon tal limb of the cam em theodolite ill the field before leaving the station. If these different values· are not in accord, the horizontal line on the perspective must be adjusted bY determining the value of tlte ordiuate v by aid of the following· formull' (5) derived from (4): 11 = f tau a · cos w'

REPORT l!'OR 1893-PART II.

59

From the preceding the necessity of the precise determiuation of the value for f is evident, and this value can readily he found if the area to be. surveyed is provided with a number of triang·ulation points, marked by signals, and if the secondary points are of such a character (for mstance, when surveying mountain ranges) that the differences of their elevations, compared with the elevation of the panorama station, arc sufficiently great to give their ordinates on the pt>r:-111~ct1 ves, lengths sutlicient to be readily measured. This will perinit the determination off by means of the line of horizon 0 0', the latter hci11g an element obtainable from the perspectives with a great degree of accuracy. The instrumeut is placed over any well-determined pui11t :tllll adjusted, then it is turned in azimuth until the vertical threa1l bisects a geodetic Point, which cau readily be identified upou the image plate (desirable also that the ordinate JI of such point be sufliciently long to assure a correct measurement). . 'fhen will be given: the difference of elevation of bisected poiltt and Panorama station = L; the horizontal distance between these two = n, an<l y = ordinate of bisected point; and from equation (3 11 ) we find for

.f -

.-

l>!f /,

·onnd.

a fairly accurate value, if the adjnstments for semiring the horizontal Position of the rnstrument were carefully made antl if tlte ordinate !J Was measured upon the negative plate correct within 0.1 11111 '. Tlte value for f can also be found, if the perspective contains several Other points (besides the one bisected l>y the ve1·tical thrcatl) which ea11 readily he identified, by measuring both the vertical and hori:wntal ang·les (l>y observing- all the point:>, including the 011e bisected). The Values for <I' and w thus obtained, including the values of the abscissru \x) and ordinates (:11), measured upo11 the imagl\ or negative plate, will enable ns to compute/ by means of e11uatio11s (1) and (4). By using the lneau of these different determiuations for f the computation, based ~Pon the 11ew values for .r· awl :11, ~:an h(l repeated 1111til au agreement is although the Italian picture:- COllllJHL!Hfod all a11g)c of lJut 'j,:_!O, the g.i·eater part of them co11tai11 one or more tria11gnlatio11 poiuts. In all ~I~ilar cases, simultaueously with the detenninatio11 of tho value f Prmcipal focal length), it can he ascertaiue1l whctlwr t lie picture of the ~~tersection of the cro:-;swires 1:oi11cidrn; with the pri11cipa I point of view npon the pel'SJ1ective (tig. 'i):
IS' ·u d S represc11t the pictures of two tria11gulat.io11 poiuts upou the ' 1

tr

_Pers1~ective m n;

IS' -, Rtat1on point or point of view; O .and 8 0 =vertical line~ from S' and S upo11 tho line of horizon 0 0' = ortlinates y' and y of these two poiut;s S' a1ul S.

60

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC 8URVEY.

It is desired to find VP (vertical to plane m n) and the position of m the point P m regard to ()and 0' or the abscissm :r and x' of s the two triangulation pomts 8 aJl(l 8 1· /, a))(l // repres~nt the differences of elevation betwc en the camera station ( Y) or tl1e horizo11 ( 00') and the triangulatio11 · points S and 8'. D and .I>' nre the liorizontal distances of Sand f:J' from the camera station (I'). L, T/, D, D', as well as y and if', arc known or can be measured v upon tl1e chart pr~jection a11d negative plate; therefore the ho1·· n izontal distances d and d' of tlie F1u. 7. picture<l triangulation points S and 8' from the point of view 1' can be computed from the following equation8 (iwe fig. :)) :
<l

= L

/)JI

11'

= /,;

J)'y'

The horizontal angle 0' Y 0 ( = w + w') being ohserverl in the field, i>, of the ]1orizontal triangle ()' r ()(fig. 7) can be compnbid as follcn':s:
the other two angles, rand

tan r-_·l
:!

=

d~_=-<l, cot 0' y 0 ,, + d' !!

By substituting·

Jl{

for i:-.+ '1 =
!!

no

0 -

Q' r 0
2

we will have:
r=Jlf+K

,) =

Jl{ -

_\'

From the two triang·Jes 0' P Y and 0 /> V (both are rectangular at P} we fh1d (fig. 7): f = <Z sin r = fl'sin ,; x =f cot r; x' =f cot,)

REPORT FOR 1893-PAHl' II.

61

also the angles of orientation
GU=

flOO cd= 900-

r o

The sum x + x' must be equal to the value 0 0' found by careful measurement upon the plate, aud it must also be equal to the value of 0 0' obtained from the following· formula: O'VO ( d + d') sin 2 00'= --·-----·.---<) - r cos :f-Shonld the horizontal angle 0 VO' not have been measured in the field, then the angles rand o can be compnt~d by carefully measuring 0 0 ou the negative plate and using the following well-known formulas:
1

tan

? - .J<P-=-d,i) (p ~--(fO') and
2p (p - d)

tan
\\'h

~

=

JC1i~~~~l~~i~O;)

+ 00' erep = cl+ d' 2
= f)
L'
;11

'fhe angles of elevation a aud a', which ar~, either obtained by direct llleasuremeut in the field or computed from thll formulas:

tau u

L

tan a'= D' serve to obtain check values fol' the values of the negative plate, by using· the formulas: ·'
1 1

and y', measured upon

= cos - ··l w

tan

<¥

and

I f t I ll = eos.w' au a

ihe value for f in above formulas beiiig the same as fouml (Page 60) toni the eq uatiou: .f = d sin r = tl' sin cf.

~y repeating

the computation with these new valnes for y ancl v' the For all practical lHll'JlOses, °Wcver, it will snlllce to take several pictures with a constant focal 1 t~ngtb, and to take the meau value of the different f determined from --.. ese pictures.·

hue value for f c1111 be obtained very closely.

()~.;..A. comparison of the valno roncl off on the gmclnntccl metnl plnte on
ll.'(l

----

l~clcr with tho resnlt obt.ainod u,1· computation will give tho oorrootiou to be '(l ·ell to the reading ou 1mi1l gmdu1ttio11.

t.he ohjoctivo

62

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC 8URVEY.

Examples showing the application of tlw methods describetl in the foregoing pages. I.
1884 (this peak is

In the panorama obtained from the "Punta Percia,'' September 19, 011 the divide between the valleys of the "Rhemes" and tlle "Valsavaranclle "),two stations, "Punta Ronletta" and" Gran Punta di Nomenon,'' of the new Italian geodetic triaugnlation appear upon the same plate (set\ fig. 8). The following values are given for the computation: ( Taken from the Elevation of Punta Houletta -=:338'1·10 111 ) ... ,. f .·: 111 Elevation of Gran Punta di Nomenon '--,:\.188·42 ·i i ..tta-1ogue 0 ti 1 ( a11gulation points. I~levation of Punta Percia- c3202·3 c- -horizon of panorama station. . · . . ~ ( l\foasnre1l.graphically upon Distance: Pcrma-H.ouletta ·-" 1> -'"" .32a0"' ) the projection on drawing Distance: Percia-Nomenon J>' !:1720 111 lboanl, ~cale: Ko-b-in>·
0c·__ 0 ---

L · 1a1 .· ,

3384-.oo

P. Rouletta - - - - -,;t;..-

L_. 279. 77

32.02..l

.3202.3

D· 3250 m.

o ·~nom.

Fin. 8.

'rhe angle V (lig-. 8) at l'crcia included 1'y the horizontal tlircctioil15 to Rouletta and N omen on" · 28° 02' ;)!I". It is desired to find: (1) Focal distance"-'--./~ the preliminary value, read off 011 the gradtl· ation on plate attached to objective cylinder, i8 found. to be about 244·5 111 tu.

REPORT

~'OR

1893-PART II.

(2) The position of the principal point of view, which is fixed by the determination of the abscissm x and x'. (3) The position of the line of horizon, which will be located by ascertaining the values for y and y'. The difference in elevation of Percia and Ronletta, according to the given data, is: 3384·10 - 3202·30 = 181 ·SOm 'rite difference in elevation between Percia and Nomcnon is 3488·42 - 3202·30=2Sfi·12m.

If we consider that the distances D and ])' arc great, and that the above values are the apparent elevations, we will have to make a correction for curvature and refraction to obtain the true valuus of .L and Lt, as follows:
Difference of ~levations: Percia-Ronletta, = 181 ·SOm Correction. for curvature a.nd refraction, = -0·70 111 .L =181·0!) 111 Difference of elevations: Percia-~ omenon. =286·12 111 Correction for curvature and refraction, = -G·35 111 L' =279·77·~

13y measuring the ordinates (Y and JJ') and the ahscissm (x and .v') Upon the negative plate with a millimetre scale, provided with a vernier,
Which enables the computer to read r%tJ 111111 (the veruier beiug divided to l'ead .}-0 of the graduation), we find:

·rhc coordinates of Punta.-Roulctta: ;v =4!Hl5 111111 y =13·75 111111 'rhe coordinates of Puut:i-Nome11011: .v'=7.1·40 111111 y'= 7·30111111
The value of dis found from the following formula:
1 d= :: (sec page HO).

log J) = log :l250 = ::HH188:J4 log· y = log O·Ola75 = 8·1:)83027 co.log J, = co.lQg 181·09 = 7·7421055 log t7
di·~ · 'l arly found: · ., s1m1

<l

= !l·aB22916 = 0·24677 =
111

!.!4(i·7'i111 m

log· ./)' = Jog !li!W = :~·9876663 log!!' =log 0·00i30 = 7·863322~ co.log L'= co.log 2i9·77 = 7·5531!)89 lug d' = 9·4041881 d' = 0·25:3(i2 111 = 253·62 11110 d d' = 0·50039 111 cl' - cl = 0·00685 01

+

64

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The angles y and <'J (fig. 8) are comrmted by aid of the formula:
t an - · -

y-o = <1'-d --· cot.
2
d+d'

0 1 VO . - (1mge 60) 2

as follows:

v= v=

280 02' 00" ;

--!! = . 140 01' 15"

v

y+r'J=l80°- V = 1510 t'>/ 1 :30"; r_+cl' = 750 58' 4!;" 2 log (d'-d) =log 0·001385 = 7·8356906 log.cot
~(

= il[

log cot 140 01' 15" = O·G0255G7 =
O·:~OOG914
~~-

co.log (d+d') =co.log 0·50039 log -2

y-o
2

= 8·738!}387
.

Y-::_~·=~~o 08' lU"·l=N
Heuce 111+ N = y M - N = o·

= 7H 0 07' Ol"·l arnl = 720 50' 28"·9
f=d sin

The computation of'/ based on the formula::; (page GO)

y au<lf=d' sin o,
log d' = 9·4041881 log sin o = 9·980~!W9 log f = 9·3844150 f = 0·2·12334111 = 242·332 111 "'.

gives the following· two values: log d = 9·3922!Hu log sin y = 9·!}921180

log f = 9·3844096 f = 0·242331 111 mean value for f

The abscissm ;v aud .v' are computed by ai1l of' the two formulas (page 60) x=/tan w = 1)()0 - JI =JOO ;)2 1 58" .!} log f = 9·3844123 (mean log) log tan c.1 = !!·2838045
lRJ

x' = / tau w' _ w' =!JOO - <l'=l7o ()fl' 31".1 log f = 9·:~844123 (mean log) log tau c,,1 1 = !}·4896221

log x = 8·6683068
,lf

x = 4H·59 measure<l on plate= 4(i·0·3 111111 diff. = ·54 111111

11 11 "

log .1: 1 = 8·8740344 x' = 74·82 111 " ' measurc1l x' = 75·40 111111 di ff, = ·42min

REPORT }'OR 1893-PART II.

65

Computation of the ordinates y and y':
y = ____[ ___ tan tr

cos(,[)

·'

11

'= - __!___ -tan
cos w'

a' (1mg·o 61).

(from station

a= angle of elevation of Pu11ta H.ouletta = a'= angle of elevation of Punta. N omenon =
log f = 9·3844123 log tan ·r = 8·7463444 co.log cos c.1 = 0·0078820 Jog y = 8·1386387 y = 13·7Gl "'"' plate= 13.75mu· diff. = o.01mm II.

3° 11' 30" j Perci.a. See 1° 38' 30'' l model in Sup-

(plemcnt. log f = 9·3844123 log tan a' = 8.457281~ Cl).log cos m' = O·Ol!.17731 log· y' = 7·8Gl4G66 y' = 7·26!}mm measured y' = 7·30 111111 diff. = 0·03m 111

y

measnre<l

011

Owing to the fact that the distances D ai1d D' in the example treated in Subject I are large, while the ordinates y and y' are quite small (due to the small difference in tile elevations of the two points Rouletta and :N"orue11011 compared with the camera station Pcrcia), it will be prefernble first to determine f by means of the abscissm an<l then to compute the values for the ordinates (y and !!'), based upon this value of/ and the observed angles of orientation w 1 an.d w 1' (see Supplement, remarks to station Percia). The direction to the main point of view P of the perspective containing the pictures of H.ouletta a11d Nomenon is= 3500 00' 00" Direction to point Nomenon (signal)= 332° 42' 00" Direction to point Ronletta (signal) = 0° 44' 30 11 Direction to H.ouletta = 360° 44' 30" Direction to point P = 3500 00' 00" Hence, w 1 = 100 44' 30" Direction to point P = 3500 00' 00" Direction to point Nomenon = 3320 42' 00" Hence, w,' = 170 18' 00"
(a)

Computation off:

f=--xtan c.71 log x = log 46·05 = 1·6632206 co.log tan c.1 1 =co.log tau 100 44' 3QI' = 0·7219207
log/= 2·3851503 f = 242·7 45rum
S. Ex. 19, i1t. 2-5

66
(b)

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

co.log tan

w 1'

x__ tan u7 1' log x' =log 7iHO = 1·877:3713 =co.log tan 170 18' 00" = 0·;30Gf.i!)03

f

·

=

log .f = 2·as:.mnrn f = 242·082 111 m Mean value for f = 242·41 11 " 11 aml from computation I we had .f = 242·33
11 11 "

diff. Computation of tl.te ordinates y and y' :

=

0·08 111 m

y

f = .COS --W1

tan a

log f = log 24!Ml = 2·3845505 log tan a= log tan 30 11' 30" = 8·7 403444 co.log cos w1=co.log cos 10° 4,JJ 30" = ().(1070774
log y = l ·1385723
JI= 13·758""" and computation I gave y = 13·761 111111

diff.

=

0·003 111111

y' =__l___ , tan a' cos c.;I
log f = log 242·41 = 2·a84550!) log tan a' = log tan l 0 38' 30" = 8·4572812 co.log cos w' = co.log cos 17° 18' 00" = 0·0201054

log y'
J/ 1

= 0·8619371 = 7 ·~77mm = 0·008
111111

and computation I gave: ?I'= 7·2(i!_lmm
<liff.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'f II.

67

lII.
The following computation is of greater interest, the camera station liaving been selected over a trigouometrical point of the I taliau geodetic triangulation system, thus admitting a direct comparison between the elements of the perspective and the exact values of these same elements, taken from the data of the triangulation work. In the ro111Hl of perspectives, obtained 011 September '.n, 1884, vertically above the trigonometrical point near the Hoyal Hunting J,odge of Valsavaranchc, there is 011<1 plate (P 5) which contains the pictures of two triangulation points, "Punta Huja" and" Gran Punta di Nomellon," of°the new geodetic triangulation.

L·

973.~m.

L·

12si...sm.

2191.am.
~·

"'
2191.e m.

l\i

0 .. y·

seoi...2m.

rJ · .S02S.&m.

V Huntin~ Lod~e
1"111. U.

= 3173·5m li:Jevat~on of Gran Punta di Nomenon (signal) = 3488·4"' ~at1~11 of the horizon of panorama station near tlw l~oyal '.l:h ui~tmg Lodge of Valsavarauclie = 2191·8m 'I'he tr~angle side Hunting Lodge - Ruja =D = 5R04·2rn · e triangle side Hunting Lodge - Nomenon = D' = /i02!H;"' '.t'Le angle, V, between l~u ja and N omeuon is = 1:3° 51' 04"·50. (See fi g. 9.) .

~:evat~on of Puntii Ut\ja (signal)

Ii: The following data are given for t.he computation:

ti~l)
ll

It· is desired to find:
011

'fhe focal leng-th, f, approximately fou11d hy rending the g-racluaobJective tube, ·= '.!44·5111111 ·

68

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

(2) 1.'he position of the priuCipal point of view (located by the abscissre x aud ;1·'). (:3) The true position of the line of horizon (located by the ordinates y and y'). By careful measureme11ts (made as i11 tl1c preceding) we find: The coordinates of Punta ]{uja: .i: =24·80 111111 ; y = 41·45m 01 The coordinates of Punta :Nomeuon: x' =34·Qi)mm; y' = G3·5Qmm Elevation of Punta Ruja Elevation of point V
= 3173.5"'

= 21H1·8tn

Apparent difference of elevation= 981·7"' Correction for refraction and curvature = - 2·3m True difference of elevation Elevation of Punta di Nomenon = 348B·4m Elevation of point of view ( Y) = 2Hl1·8'" Appare11t difference of elevation = 129G·Gm Correction for curvature and refraction= - 1·7m 'l'rue difference of ehwation Computi1tion of d

=-?

1)804·2 = 3·7637 424 ()-(14145 = 8·6175245 co. log L =co. log = 7 ·00!)0399

log D =log

lo~y=log-'

log r1 = !l·:mo:wo8 d = 0·245<i44 111 = 24iHi44111111

;)'y' Computation of d' ="'I/
log D' = loµ; 50!.m·6 = :Vio15~:)4 logy' = Jog O·O<i3:10 = 8·80277:W co.log L' = co.log 1294·!) = G·887'Vi:~8 log d' = !J·3fl2070!J d' = 0·246644111
fl

= 246·644mw

+ d' = 492·291t1
=

111

d' - d Computations

l·00 111 m

' the augles y and o: y-o d'-d v tau ---~--- = d + d' cot 2 y = 130 51 1 04 11 ·50

y

y

t

+ 0 = 1800 0

_y = 2

60 55' 32 11 ·25
v = 166° 08 1 135 11 ·50

=

83004' ~7"·75 = .tf

REPORT FOR 1893-PART lI

69

log ( d' - d) =log

0·00100

= 7·0000000

log cot {=log cot 0° 55' 32 11 ·3 = 0·!)155406 co.log (rl

+ d') =co.log
y-o

0·4922\J

= 0·3077790
0

log tan y :;.,,

= 8·2233196

--.z--=00 57' 29"·10=.iV

Jll+N=84o 01' 56"·9=y M -N = 820 06' 58"·7 = o

Computation off= d sin y = rl' sin o log d = log- 0·24;i64 = 9·39030fi8 log sin y =log siu 840 01' 56"·!l = !H)!J76401 log/= 9·3879469 /=0·244313 log d' = log 0·24604 = !)·3920709 log siu o=log siu 82° Oli' li8"·7 =9·9958757 log· f = U·38794fi6 f = 0·244313W l\feau value for f ,244·31 1u 111 Oomputation of the abscissw:
X=fta.11
CNJ

c.u =!loo_

r = 50 58' o:V'·l

log (mean value off)= H·387!J468 log tan w =log tan 50 f.i8' 03"·1=9·0192462
log .-r = 8·40719:30 X = 0·025538 111 = 25·iJ4lllw
w
1

=

log tan

w1

01 11 ·3 log f = 9·3879468 =log tan 70 53' 01"·~{ = 9·1413001
1

x' = 900 - r1

= 70 53

f t.nn

cv 1

log x' = 8·5293069 a:' = <l-033830 = :l3·§3 111 m x' = 33.33mm X = 25·54 111 ru measurccf x = 24·80 111111 measured x' = 34·05 111111

(v~e.an

cliff. = 0·74111111 <lift'. = 0·22° 1111 difference = 0.48 111 i 1,1 = correction for principal point of view rtical thread) on the plate.

70

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

IV. The plate (J> 5 ) treated of, under Snb,iect III, is the fifth perspective of the ten plates forming the panorama. 'fhese perspectiYeS Wel'eOl.Jtaiued, as previously meutiouerl, by moving the optical axis of the camera successively by 3GO in horizoutal plan, as in<licated in the examples for phototopographic stations in tl1e Supplement. The orientation for the entire panorama (set of ten plates) was obtained by the CXJlOsme of the first plate (P') by directing the optical axis for this exposure to the trigonometrical point" Punta Clrnmlcllei" (i. e., by bisecting the signal at Punta Chandellei with the vertical thread of the camera). (See fig.10.)

L· 619.2.o

v

f

I------+,:!;

FICI. JO.

'Ve fi11d, therefore, on plate P' (fig. 11) the picture of the signal Punta Chandellei (Sin fig.10), bisected by tho vertical thread, and this fact enables us to ol.Jtain the value for f more readily from this plate b.v means of the following formula ( fig.10):
VP'=}·= _lT_§' x 1!'__8

S&'

For this computation the following data are given: .D =triangle side: l{oyal Lodge (sigual)'-Punta Chamlellei (signal) =VS' = The elevation of' Punbt Clrnndellei = The elevation of Hoyal J,odge-elevation of horizon of Y = 'l'he ordinate y of image (&)of P. Chandellei, measured on plate P' = Uomputation of I1 = SS': Blevation of Punta Chandellei = 2811 ·72'" Elevation of point V (camera 110rizon) =21!Jl·80 111 Apparent difference of elevation= 619·92 111 Correction for curvature and refraction= -<>-72 111 True difference of elevation = 619·20" =L.
1

3270·7 m !!811·72 111 2191·80"'
1

.W·25'""'

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

71

Compu t a t· f j = Dy .1011 () .L = VSxP'S

-ss;--

= 3·5146407 = 8·0651117 co.log .L =co.log 01!)·20 = 7·2081691
log IJ =log 3270·7 log y =log 0·04625 log f
()·~443{)

f=

= 9·3879215 = 2.J4·30Ullll
P. fl Ruja I
I
I
p&

P.;. N omenon
/

t'

/

v Hunting Lodge

Ip'

I I
I

p

~

I

P. Chandellei
FIG 11.

v.
ori)erspective P 5 (fig. 11) shows, as previously mentioned, the pictures J:>i b~lnta Rnja ancl Punta Nomenon, wl11le the vertwal thread of plate ·sects the pictw·e of the iugnal Punta Cllaudellei, ancl a!! the hor1-

72

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY .

. zontal angles P'V P2, P2V P 3, P 3 l' P~ . . . . . . are uniformly = 36°, the orientation of plate P 5, for instance, will be:

P'VP5 = 4x360=l44o
From the geodetic records we take the angle: Chandellei-Royal Lo<lge-Nomeuon = 1350 58' 23"·25 and the angles: P 5 V P'-(N omenonHoyal Lodge-Chandcllei)= (j[)' (Raja-Royal
Lodge-~ omenon )- (j[)' =
(j[)

With aid of these values for G·J, oo' and the value for f, see Subject III, we can compute the values for x and y very closely. (See fig.11.) The angle: (Chandellei-Lodge-I' 5 )=P'VP 5 =1440 00' 00" The angle: (Chandellei-Lodg·e Nomeuon)= P' V Xo- = 135° IJ8' 23"·25 men on. Therefore (j[J' =(Ruja-Lodge.Nomenon)-(j[J' = 13° 51' 04"·50 = 5° 49' 27"·75
_

(j[)

so Ol' 3G"·75 80 01' 36"·75

Computation of the abscissm:

x=f tan (j[) log /=log 244.31 = 9·3879468(seeeomputationSubjectIII) Iogtan w=logtan 5049' 27"·75= 9·008G2G3 log x = 8·39G5731 X= 24·92mm by measuremeu t: x = 24 ·80 111111
diff. = 0·12tnlll x' =f tan (j[)' log f = 9·3879468 log tan (j[)' = log tan 8° 01' 3G"·75 = 9·1492780 log x' = 8·5372248 x' = 34.45mrn by measurement: x' = 34·Qijmm
<lift'~ =

0·4Qtnlll

2 should be applied to the vertical axis of plate P:>.

The mean difference:

O·J~ +_o· 40 = O·~u"'"' is the correction which

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

73·

Computation of the ordinates: cos ml> = log 0·24431 = !)·3879468 = log ni!H = 2·9909601 =co.log cos 50 4!}' 27 11 ·i5 = 0·0022478 = co.log 5801·2 = 6·2362576 log y = 8·617 412:~

y=

JI:_.

log f log L co.log co8 m co.log ])

= 0·04143!) y = 41·44 111 m by measurement: y 41·45 111111
y

=

y' = ---·lL' ·-. - .

log f = log· L' = log 1294·!) = co.log cos w' = co.log cos 8° 01' 3W'·75 co.log D 1 = co.log 5029·6 =

cos w' JY

=

!}·3879468 .'H 122:362 0·004275!) 6·2!:184666

log y' = 8·802!:1255 y' = 0·063522 111 = G:~·52mm by measurement: y' = 63·50m 111 These five examples will elucidate tho various relations between parts Of the perspectives and the terrene, as well as give tho means to judge of tho degree of accuracy of pl10totopography. In practical work it woultl become too time consuming to make such cou1putatious for all thQ plates, or oven for all tho panoramas, with the llecessary minute graphical measurements. t lf tho camera has been carefully construeted it is generally aceepted filiat its optieal axis is vertical to tho imago plate, and the value for/ or any, or for all, panoramas which were obtained with the same 0 ~.iective aud with the same constant focal length (that is to say, 0 utained with tho same reading· of the scale 011 the objective tube) is ~Inputed in practice in the following manner: s the horizontal shiftiugs p1yp2, p2yp3, payp4

ai·e an= 3uo, the a11gles
P' Vm, m l'Jn, l' 2 Vin'

''"! l
1

~J'

li

ence,

be= 130 each. 'rhe value of I''m = mI' 2 = J>2m' = . . . . is tan 18° =xm =tho value of t.he greatest abscii;sa of tlte plates;

t

.

= tan ·--xm ----18°

i4

U. S. COAS'.r .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In the preceding (page 54) it has been stated that two ac\joining plates have a common margin, representing the terrene included by an a11glep Vq (fig.11). If the negative plat-Os are sufficiently clear, it will be an easy matter to identify a point, 1n (fig. 11), on the two strips p q of two adjoining plates, which will be Oil or near the line of horizon, and which will be 1n P' distant from the vertical axis of plate I'' and m P2 distant from the vertical axis of plate P 2 · If we select such points m', 'in 2, m 3, which call be identified upon two adjoining plates, pi_p3 , 1'3-P, P~-P5 , · · · · we will obtain a mean value, x 111 , for the entire panorama, hy ai1l of which a good value for f can be obtained from the formula:

!=---··· tan 18°
J·'or example: By means of ten negatives of a panorama station; occupied with the latest improved Italian apparatus, it was found:

xm

mm
x 111 forP 1 X 111 pz .vm P3 xm J>4 - P 2 =77·10 -P 3 = 77·15 -P 4 = 77·00 _p5 = 77·4.0 P 5 -P 6 = 77·40 .T"' = 77·194""" =mean value. J>G _p1 = 77·20 p1 _J>O = - po _J>9 = - po _ p 1 0 = 77·40. I' 10 - - .P' = 76·90) log 77·Hl4 = 1·8875835 co.log tan 130 = 0·4882240

.v 111
xm

xm
.Tm

X01

xm

log f = 2<3758075 j = 237·()mm The above values were obtained by using the negative plates and reading the measurements, obtained by means of divider!.', off tbe graduated rulers of the .graphical instruments of the Hoyal MilitarY Geographical Institute. Using the pogitives (prints) of the same panorama, the following' results were obtained:

x 111 for I'' - J> 2 = 7G·25 xm J> 2 - p:i = 7G·20
xm xm xm
p:i - 1' 4 = 7G·l0 po - pw = 7G·70 1' 10 -P' = 76·00

mm

REPORT FOR 1893-PAHT- )I.

75

Prom this tho mean Yalue for x'" is found= 7G·25 111 "' log 7G.25 = 1 ·8822398 co.log· tan 180 = 0·4882240 log f

f
'l'he neg-atives gave Tltc positives gave

= 2·:3704628 = 234·G7 = 234·7
111111

111

'"

X

111

:i·Jll

= 77·]!} = 76·25

di ff. -

<Hl4 111111

This shortening of the greatest abscissa of half a millimetre at either Side of the vertical thread 011 the prints jg due to shrinkage of the 24:x18 cm paper. The positive prints 1.Jeing extensively used in the map construction, this sllriukage must be taken into account.

CHAPTER

III.

'.J'IIE EXECU'.I.'ION OF '.1.'HE I·'IELDWORK,

By a close iuspection of the various panoramas upon which the con· strnction of the map is base<l, it readily becomes evident that not all of the perspectives are adapted for illustrative purposes (to be used to illustrate the Alpine character). For cartograP,hic purposes the panoramic views should not be taken at too gTeat a·distauce from tlw terreue which is to be delmeated, in order to preservl\ aud show as much as possible of the topographic details and also that the selected triangulation points may appear sulilciently clear and well defined in the two or three views of the panorama set which coutaiu their pictures. It will be best to select the dista11co from which views for illustrative purposes are to be taken in such a manner that the camera station ma.Y command an extensive field of tlrn terrene. Illustrative views should therefore, be taken from isolated prominent points and from such that can readily be recognized upon the ~opographic map containing the sectio11 photographed, thus assuring a rapid ()ric11tation and giving the student of the map the meaus to form a correct opinion of the topo· graphic character of the terrene by comparing such illustrative views with the map. With this object in view, a selection was made from the numerous panoramas obtai11ed during former years and the selected perspectives were copied with pen and ink hy expert draftsmen, whose d.rawingi'l were reproduced by photor.incograpby arnl published with the addition of all data needed to identify the camera station and t-0 enable the student to ol'ient each view properly upon the map. The requirements which the camera theodolite coustructed un<lel' the auspices of the Hoyal Military Geographical Institute was t-0 satisfy have been previously mentioned, and as a result of the improve· ments suggested and made by pr::u:tical experience the apparatus now· in use iu Italy furnishes the elements of the panorama station in sucll completeness that little needs to be adde'l by extra operations and computat1011s before the map construction is begun, and, with due ref· erence to the rough character of the terrene, the apparatus can easilS be dismembered into pieces immll enough t.o be taken to the most inac· cessible points. 'I'hree i;mall-sized knapsacks, each weighmg 7 to 8 kilogrammes, contain the theodolite, the camera, and ten negati'\10
76

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

77

Plates. They are carried by two soldiers and one guide, each bearing one tripod leg, to be used as an alpenstock. The fieldwork consists in the fitting up of a small laboratory, con'Veniently located with due regard to communication, to a central position, to facilities of transportation, accessibili1.y of good water, etc. A suflicient number of bromo-g-elatin plates are kept on hand packed i.11 air and water tigltt cases. From this laboratory the camp outfit is taken to the neighborhood of the stations which are to be occupied. The observer and party take daily excurHions from this camp to tlte surrounding mountain peaks, replacing the plates exposed during the day every evening by 1ww ones to be used the 1iext day . .After the camera theodolite has been put together and placed in Position at a stati1J11, with favornlile weather and light, precluding Unforeseen accidents to the corrections and adjustments of the instrullJ.ent, au experienced observer will execute the panorama and deterllline the camera station withiu an hour. To secure the position of a camer:1 station at least three or four directions to surrounding geodetic points should lie taken, as, if so lllany are not visible, that 1rnmlier of horizontal diredions must be taken to some other points which have previously liecu determined as l>hototopographic stations, and which were provided with Rignals ?efore leaving them. The vertical angles at these points are recorded 111 a notebook. After the terrene to be photographed has been focused upon, the circle reading of the focal length on tho graduated ·n1etal plate on the objective tube is also recorded in this book if the l)1·h1cipal focal distance lias not been used . . The panorama is obtained l>y clamping the instrument, after the lhrection ·of the optical axis of the first perspective .l'' has been ~ecured, by bisecting a geodetic point (see Jig. 11), aud t.hen revolving the camera .)(lo for each successive exposure in order to obtain the directio11s of the optical axes of the following perspectives: ]>2 p3

'

.....

ln the notebook (Model No. 1, supplement) all data are recorded which
lnay be deemed useful or necessary for the selection of snlisequentcamei:a stations, also tho general incidents of the tleldwo1·k at each station (tl!ne or duration of exposure of the different plates, accordiug to the . ~~aracter of illumination, in order to gather the means for regulating e subs<~quent developing of the plates). Finally, a pencil outline 18k etch of the terreue, with valuable notes for tlte map (names, roads, Datha, buildings, etc.), is made before leaving the station. .A.ftcr all the stations around this camp have beeu completed, and if ~1 l required data I1a ve been gathered during· the several trn verses through l> ie country, from the camp to the stations, the camp ii,; packed and the arty returns to the laboratory, where the recently obtaiued negatives :re developed and the occupied camera stations are plotted and marked Pon the chart projection. All the finished panoramas left at tho labo-

78

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

ratory are catalogued and labeled. Then the party, with a new supply of plates, proceeds to another camping ground to continue the work as before. In order to save time and trouble, it will be advisable to regulate the general progress of the work in such a ma1111er that the elevated poiuts are visited in the most favorable seaso11 (i. e., when the snow has least depth, when the passes are free from snowdrifts, and when the glaciers cau be passed over with the least ri!ik). The lower regions, being 11earer to civilization~ require less time and can be occupied at leisure at any time during the season . .A good selection of the camera station is important, a11d should be well considered and be made dependent upon the elevation and distance of the poi11ts of the terrcne to be surve;yed, upon the scale of the chart, and upon the character of the country (a diversified and broken terrene will need more stations to control the same than undulating and a more regular sectiou), still, with due regard to the limited length of the working season iu these elevated regions, it will also he advisable to occupy no more stations than are really neelled to develop the terrene properly. '.l'he stations, finally, should be selected iu such a manner that the smallest area of the represented terre11e is visible from tlJree or more stations. 1 f any part is visible from two stations only, and if it is of minor importance, ib; determi11ation by two directions only may be accepted if the points of the same are determined by good i11tersec· tious (if the two lines of direction intersect each other at an angle of

an

(i00-900).

Hegarding the most favorable hours for exposing the plates, one must be guided hy local conditions; generally speaki11g, the trend of the val· leys in comparison with the course of the sun is important; slopes totally iu shndow sl1oul<l uot be photographe<l; neither is it advisable to execute panoramas when the snn is low or near the horizon. In the latter case an additional source of trouble would arise from the fact that one or two perspectives, taken i 11 the <lirectiou toward the sun, will be cloudy an<l liave a double set of crosR wires, one set being printed bY rays which penetrate into the camem an<l the other in the usual man· ner by the refracted rays through the lernms of the objective. Gener· ally speakiug, it will be found that the best results are obtained fro1n exposures made during the latter part of the forenoon, the atmosphere having a greater percentage of vapor in the afternoon, particularly in mountainous countries. From every negative plaro obtaiue1l at least two pm;itive prints are made. One serve8 to determine the panorama necessary for the loca· tion of the secondary points, while the other is used to measure ~be abseissm and ordinates neede<l fo1· the map construction. All measure· men ts Rhonl1l he made npo11 loose prints, as the pictures become greatlY distorted by being 1mHtetl ou canlboardH.

CHAPTEI~

IV.

THE HORIZO::s''.l'AL l'IW.mc'!'ION.

In order to obtain the map, lJased npon the panoramas, two drawing hoards are covered with paper (gummed down on the edges). One is Used as a constructing board (to make all graphical determinations of tioiuts) and the other for the drawing of the finished charts; both are tirov1ded with a chart projection upon which the trigonometric points \Vhich· were used during the field seasou are plotted by means of their coordinates. With the aid of a specially constructed graphical protractor and tracing paper the dil'ectwns obtained . \1·ith the theodohte in the field can readily be plotted upon lJoth sheets. '.l'his protraetor is slJowll'in figure 12. lt consists of two conceutric circles 4 A aud B B. The former can be Inoved coucentric within the latt~r Ill.lout the axis C, secured in the :enter of A A. 'l'his rotary motion 1 1:1 applied to A A by means of two llro,jeeting ribs S and S on the plate a, a,. the latter being secured to the lllovable circle . . '.I'he inner circle A A has a graduation, divided into degrees aud half ~egrees, while the outer cil'cle BB .ear~ a vernier n, the zero of which 11 .es in the prolongatiou of the fidu~ 1 a edge of an . arm b b,' which is !lecurely fastened to the outer circle ~11 ~ in a radial position to tlw same. '.this vernier n rea1ls to lrnlf minutes. F10. i2. he clamp screw P serves to secure the two .circles in any position. ti 4-n alidade ruler,]) .D, the fiducial edge of which lies also in the direcll 011 of a diameter of the circles, is revolvable about the axrn 0 and slides l.'ton the upper ;;urfaces of the circles which are in the same plane. ls al1<lu.de bears a vernier n', gmduate<l like n, the zero of which.

w

80

TT. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

coinci<les with the fiducial edge of D D. The clamp screw 1" twryes to clamp this movable ar1ll' DD to the outer circle BB. The axis C is a hollow screw bolt with conical interior, at the bottom of which a thin lJiece of isinglass is secured in such a manner that it can he rencwe<l. Tllis has a small puncture to indicate the center of tl1e circles am! revolving axis. When au ordinary protractor is used to lay off the different directions from one camera station wllich were obtained by the tlleodolite in the field all tlie necessary additions and subtractio11s to be made in onler to obtain the successive aug'les between thm;e lines of directions absorl> much valuable time, especially when plotting a series of pa11orn11HL stations. 'l'hep;.Qtr:wtor sbowu i11 figure 12 can he nsecl not only as any ordinary protractor (by making the zero of the inner circle coincide with the zero of the outer circle and clampi11g the two circles in that position by means of tile clamp screw P), hut it can also ue used to plot the direc· tions upon the map in tile same m:111uer as they were obtained in tile field, by aid of tlte theodolite; that is to sa.y, they can be referred to zero or auyotherdirection as the beginning, aud then be plotted in sue· cessive or<ler. 'fo do this, the inner circle is revolved until the zero of the outer circle (vemier n) gives the same readi11g· upon the graduation of the movable circle as the theo<lolite readi11g for the prime direction; then both circles are clamped togetlier by the Bame clamp screw J', Tl.ie line of primCI direction is <lrawu along the fiducial edge of the fixed ruler b b upon the drawing (or upon the tracing paper, if the station is to be fixed or located upo11 the traciug of the li11es), while the center of the instrument coinci<les with the point representing the i;tation upon the paper. The zero of the vernier n' of the alidade ]) D is tllen successively brought, upon tlie inner circle graduation, to the readings of the other directions radiating from the station point under the center of tile pro· tractor; each successive direction is plotted by drawing a pencil Jine along the edge of the alidade D J). Care must he taken not to change the primary position of the· instrument as defined by the first line, during these motions of the alidade. 'fhe tracings of the lines radiating from the stations are obtained with great accuracy by means of this i nstrnmen t. If we have a sufficieu t n uJll· her of direct.ions to well-determined points which are evenly distributed about the station, their corresponding intersections upon botli drawing' boal'ds can be located with as much rapi<lity ao.d accuracy as a graph· ical construction will admit of. This protractor serves also to locate, points on the constructioll board whicli on account of importance or for i·easons of control blld been bisected from numerous stations with the theodolite, and also, 1\8 will be shown, to orient a perspective view upon the board, if snch .perspective contains no trigonometrical point., or 1f the image of such is blurred au<l uot sufficiently clear to he ident1fie<l with precision.

REPORT POR 1893-P.ART II.

81

After all statio11s, i11clt11li11g tmclt secondary points as have been detcr.lnined by tlieoclolite directious from these mtmcra statious, have been plotted upon the two boards, the work of determining upon the construction board such secondary points as seem needed to complete the map is taken up. For this purpose the various elements of the perspectives are corrected and adjusted in the mairner previously indicated, and all secondary points are selected and marked by searching for well-defined Points which are common to two or more plates~ carefully selecting therefrom only Hu1·h as seem S to be the most useful eitller for drawing the contours or B for tracing the general trend of mountain ranges, torrenti; and streams, boundary linei; of gfaciers, etc. The 1mmber to be selected depe11ds chiefly upon the adopted scale awl upon tlte accuracy to be attained. All such Points are marked upon the Prints (perspectives) by nun1erals or letters in red iuk. Instead of drawing the horizontal projections of all Perspectives (or the polygons of the panoramas) upon the construction board, om O" x' ll:l.uch time can be saved by b' p' Using the instrument re1)reF10. l~. sented in figure 14. With this instrument we can draw directly upon the construction boanl the horizontal directions to tho pail's or trios of points marked upon the Prints without drawing the horizontal pr~jectio11s of said prints. In figure 13, Vrepresents the station point plotted upon the board, 0 0 1 the horizontal projection of a perspective (which has been oriented 'With reference to a signal point B, a known and plotted point of the terrene). · lT P is vertical to 0 0'. f =focal length for the perspective 0 0'. P= principal point of view of the perspective. P s upon 0 0' is the measure of orientation ( = w) of the perspective. We uowprolong VP through Vby VP= Y P' =land erect -a perl>endicular to VP'= 0 111 0 11 in J>'. Likewise~ prolong VB, VA, VS to their intersections with 0 111 0 11 , whicll intersections are marked b', a', s', l'espectively. VP'= VP and O 0' parallel to 0 111 0 11 ; hence the rectan.'
S. Ex. 19, pt. 2-0

82

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

gular triangles Y P' a', VP' b', and VP' s' are cougrueut witlt VP a, VP b, and VP B: respectively; therefore: P'n'=Pa=.v P'll =Pb= .r' and P's'= I's, giving also the measure of orientation (= c.J) of the perspective. The construction of tlte graphic sedoL' (fig. H) is based on the pre· ceding consideration, and it serves to draw from the station point, in the plane of drawing, the various horizontal directions to secondary points of the perspeetive8. The metal plate VS S', shaped like a sector, can l>e revolved in the plane of drawing about the center of a strong needle, puncturing th6 station point in center (r) of sector. This needle passes through an oblong opening (of the same width as the needle) of a revolvable button, r, secured in Y, and through a similar slot in the metal plate VS S' at V. The metal ruler R R' is revolvable al>ont V, gliding with the e11d R/ over the arc S S 1 of the sector, aud tile fiducial edge of the ruler passing through the center of 1·. 'l'his ruler is 'secured to the revolv· able button r l>y meaus of a cylinder, the bottom of which also bears a slot similar to those in the button and sec· tor plate. "\Viten the ruler and button a.re in a certain position the three slots iu Rector plate, buttou, and riug of ruler will coincide, and the needle can be inserted into tl1e station point under V, the center of rotation, through the three slots. By a quarter turu of the }'!Cl. 14. but.ton r the needle will become in· closed in a square, of which the needle circumference forms the inscribed circle. '£he entire instruuw11t can now be revolved about the needle center in Y. The lever screw 1n serves to move the prolongation arms n n' in a. suitable slide in the direction of the middle line of the sector. .Tb 0 axis of this instrurueut coincides with that radius of the sector which falls together with tbe middle line, passing through the center of l'. The steel ruler Tis perpendicular to this axis, and is secured to the pro· longation arms n n'; it can be moved up or down, while maintaining 9 position perpendicular to the axis of the instrnment, by means of tbe

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

83

screw m to positions parallel to each other. During such movements of Tthe ruler eu.d8 0 and 0' glide over two graduated metal strips tt u', which are parallel to the axis of the instrument aud upon which the distance of a line coinciding with the fiducial edge 0 0' of.T from the center of the 11eedle in V can be read off to 0·1'11111 · If the edge 0 0' of the steel ruler Tis brought to a distance =ffrom the camera station in center of V (by means of the screw ni;) it will represent the line of horizon or the horizontal projection of a perspective, obtained with the focal length =f (in inverse position, lik'e the line of horizon, viewed upon the grouud-glass plate .of the camera). The point P, intersection of the axis of the instrumeut with 0 0', is the principal point of view, and it it~ accentuated by a small conical cavity to receive the point of one arm of the divider. The screw c serves to give the steel ruler T a permanent position after it has been brought to the desired distance fr9m the center of rotation V. Two thumbscrews lV and lV' (i11to which film needles 'can be inserted and held in place by clamp screws) serve to secure the metal sector in any desired position upon the drawing board. The urc SS' of the sector is graduated to ten minutes aud the zero of this graduation Coincides with the axis VP of the instrument,. giving readings from Oo to 250 on either si1le of VP upon this arc. The ruler or alidalle RR' bears a vemier to read frtJ.ctious of the arc graduation. It is graduated to read half mi11utes. 'fhe thumbscrew ~clamp screw) Z of the alidade has a conuterplate at its lower end and 1t serves to secure the end R' of the alidade upon the arc of the sector 11.lld upon the steel ruler T. Iu order to draw the lines of direction upon the construction board to a poi11t of the terrene, the picture of which has been selected and lllarked upon the perspective, the instrument is placed with its 1,;enter Of rotation, V, over the needle, marking the camera station on the board a~d giving the button r a quarter turn (care must be taken that the 81 de bearings of the button r of the instrument 11ave no loose pla.y ~bout the needle), theu 0 0' is moved by turniug the screw 'I/I. until 0 0' ls distant from center of V =J; wh~reupou the ~rientation of the iustrulllent is accomplished as follows: l7' Pis directed to bisect a plotted triangulation point, the image of ~hieh appears on the persr>ective with sufficient distinctness; its abscissa ~~ta.ken from the print by means of a, pair of dividers nnd plotted in .e inverse direction, upon the line 0 0', from the puncture in .P; the 1 afidade RR' is now gently brought into contact with the other point ; the dividers and secured in this position by cl1tmpi11g the sc1;ew Z. Of.ow the entire instrument is re\'olved about V until the other end R l> the alidade bisects the pk>tted point. 'fhe instrument is held in this thsition by pressing the small needles Waud 1V' into the drawiug board; Q e end R 1 of the nlidade is now released and the abscii.sm of all the 6Sired points of the perspective are transferred to the drawing along

84

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the Jine 0 0 1 from P, by means of the dividers, in their successive order, but in inverse direction (the fiducial edge of the alidade being gently brought into contact with the divider point each time), and the li110:; of direction are drawn with a sharp pencil along the fiducial edge of the alidade encl R. Should the image of the triangnlatio11 point appear blurred upon the perspective, the instrument will have to be oriented upon the drawing· by means of the augle of orieutation = r,..1 of the perspective, which angle is taken from the fiel1l book (l\Io1lel No. 1, Supplement). The end R' of the alidade is placed arnl secured in such a position that the alidade RR' forms the angle r,J with the axis YP of the instrument, which angle is read off (in the inverse direction) on the arc S /:J' of the sector. The instrnment is then revolved about the 11eedle in V, the same as before, nntil the end R of the ruler passmi through the trigonometrical point in questiou. '.l'he instrument is then secured upon the board in this position by means of the screws lV and W' and the horizontal directions arc drawn to the secondary points along R, in the manner just described. If a plate haR been exposed while the vertical wire bisected a trigo· nometrical point, the orientation of such perspective is accomplished by making the zero of alida1le-vcrnier coincide with the zero of the arc graduation, /.,' S', clamping BB' in this position and directing the end R to bisect the plotted trigonometrical point in 1prnstion. Should, finally, the pers11ective contain '110 imnges of points previ· ously located and plotted, then the zero of alida1le is again made to coincide with the zero of the arc graduation and the instrument is revolved about the center of the needle until the fiducial edge R of the alidade coincides with a line (which had been drawn by rneans of the previously described protractor) which forms an angle in the station· point Y with the direction to a triangulation point, which ii:; equal to the angle of orientation ( = w) of the plate and which is taken from the field notebook (Model No. 1, Supplement). After the horizontal directions have been drawn to the different points of the llanorama, they are provided with 1mmerals or symbols corresponding with the characters affixed to tbe points upon tbe panoramic views, in order to facilitate their identification when seek· ing for the subsequent intersections with lines to the same points froO'.l other camera i:;tations. In this manner, shown in the preceding, th0 positions of the secondary points in the plan of the drawing arc secured by intersections, which will serve to make up the control of the mitP· It is well to transfer to the fair drawing, by means of tracings. whicb. are oriented by the plotted trigonometrical poiuts and pr~viouslY' located panorama stations, all the different points obtained by inter: se-0tions upon the construction board, in order to erase therefrom a.U lead pencil lines, which served for their determination and to obscure the subsequent constructions for the/ positions of other points of tb6 terrene as little as possible.

CHAPTER
TI-IE

v.
WOlUC

lIYPSOME'l'l~ICAL

After the position of the most important points of the second order is well under control it remains to ascertain the elevations of the vnrious station and secondary points of the perspectives, iu order to enable the draftsman to interpolate the contours between these points. By means of the graphical hypsometer, figure 15, the elevations of the Plotted camera stations can be ascerttiined, by means of their gTaphi~ally measured distances from triangulation points and the corresponding angles of elevation of said points (measured with the theoclolit~), Which are recorded in the field notebook B (M:odel No. 1, Supplement). The elevations of all secondary point;; are determined with the saineinstrumen t by means of their graphically llleasured distances from the camera station and their corresponding ordinates, y, to be ,., ,__....,..,.....,, ·:measured upon the perspectives. Two rulers, LL' and 1lf Jf' (fig. 15), can be lllade to glide with their ends along a ruler, .A. B;but always maintaining a peqlCndicular L Position to the same, for which purpose their L e::d~§l~;;;~rn ends are secured to two sleighs, 1lf' and L', l: Which glide in two parallel grooves, g and rt', along A B. The motion of .I/ is free, a1ul is accomplished by pushing the button 0 up or down the rnler .1 B. · Jlf' is provided with a ratchet and screw P. :By turning the latter in one direction or the 0 ther the ruler Jf 11[' is gradually moved up or clown A TJ, the latter being provided with a l'ow of fine teeth into which tho ratchet wheel Fm. ir.. Of Jlf'l bites while Pis being revolved. The alidade ruler d'il is secured "7ith 0110 encl, rl, in Y, in such n;mannm· that <l'<l can be revolved about the axis of Y as a center, while the other eml, rl', passes over a graduated arc, G ng'. The plug ill Vis similarly constructed to the one in Vof the graphieal sector, figurt~ 14, previously described (it is provided with a l'evolvable button which contains a slot in such a manner that the ruler .A.1$ can be revolved simultaneously with the alidade d' <l about a needle, llla.rking the station point on the construction board). In this instru85

86

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

ment tile ptug-, tlw rnvolvaule hutton. and. the alic:l.ade have each a slot, which intersect each other in the center of rotation V, and. through which the 11cec:l.le can be pa,ssell when they have a certain position and then be secured in place hy a quarter tnrn of the lmtton. The entire instrumen't can be revolve1l about the needle, the center of which lies ill the clirectiom1 of the 1iducial edges of the ruler A B a.uc:l. alidade d'd. The a.Iida.de is provic:l.ed with a vemier, n, graduated to read half minutes, on the grndnatiou of the limb G ff g'. 'l'llis Ycrnier serves to lay off angles ii.·om Y between the fiducial edge;; of AB and. <l'd. 'Vhen d'd is brought close to a.ud in contact with ..11 B, the zero of the vernier n and the zero <'>f the arc graduation will coincid.e. The axis of this instrumeut is represented by that edge of AB (lying; toward d'd) which passes through the centc1· of rotation F, and. which 1msseH through the zero of the graduated arc G !I g'; it alHo passes through the point p of the line p q, which is rna.rkeu upon the ruler Jf Jlfi. 'l'his liue p q corresponds with the zero of a vernier, n', which is att:.whed. to the ruler JI 11!' and. which glides along the groove !I when Jf 1lf' is moved np or dovin AB. AB has n. millimetre graduation, and. by means of the vernier n' the distance of the li11e p q from centc1· of V can be read to 0.!1' 1111 · When this line p q is brought to the distance= f from.Y, by means of the fine ratchet movement at Jlf', the li11e p q can be regarded as the axis of abscissm drawn upon the perspective, while the point P repre· rents the principal point of viC\v of the perspective (see fig. 5). In this case the line p <J can :ilso be regarded as the axis of the ordi· nates of the perspective 1n n (fig. f>), provided the vertical plane (con· taining VP and. axis of ordinates) is i,mpposed. to be rotated about VP until it coincides with the horizontal pl:rne VP 0. · The point pis marked. upon the line p q (in the same way as described for the sector) by a small puucture, which servei; to receive one point of the dividers, when such are used to lay off the abscissru and ordi· nates, taken from the perspectives. After p q has been secured a.t a. distance =f from the center V a.nd the abscissa x of a point a, takeu from the perspective 1n n, bas been transferred to .the line p q from p, the second point of the dividers upon pq will represent the horizontal projection a' of the point a. If we no'~ move the ali<htd.e, d'fl, until its tidueial edge touches the second point of the dividers, the triangle formed by the edge of the ali<lade d'd, the edge of the ruler AB, and line a' p will represent the triangle V Pa' of figure ·1. The end. d' of the alidade is provided with a steel index mark, i which can be movec:l. along d' d by means of a revolvable button, E, a: ratchet movement, and teeth in a groove along d' cl. If this iudej'. mark is moved. to a' (the intersection of fiducial edge of the alidade and line p q ou 1vl 1lf'), the distance Y lt' cut off on d.' d will represent the horizontal distance of the point a' of the perspective from V (i. e., the value d in figure 5).

REPORT FOH 1893-l>ART It.

81

!l'

Maintaining this index mark i (fig. 15) i~1 this position on d' d and revolving d' d auout Yuntil its fiducial edge coincides with the edge p V of AB (i. e., with the axis of the hypsometer), then moving the ruler. 1lI Jll' away from Y (by turning the ratchet button I') until the line p q coincides with the index mark i, we will have transfel:red the distanced (fig. 5) upon the hypsometer axis; wo will have brought the line p q (engraved upon Jf 1ll') to a distance from the center of rotation (of the needle) in r e<111al to d, and by transferring the ordinate y (fig. 5), nieasured on the porspeetive m n with n, pair of dividers, upon tho line P q (while the latter is still in the position just described), by inserting one point of the divi1lcrs into the cavity p and bringing the fiducial edge of the alidado cl' d geutly into contact with the other point of the dividers, resting on the line p q (fig. Hi), then the triangle V pa of the hypsometer will also represent the vertical triangle Va' a of figure 5, except that it is now turned about Va', as axis, into horizontal plan. The movable ruler LL', which will always remain perpendicular to the hypsometer axis, consists of two plates joined firmly together at their ends, between which the alidade d' cl (fig. 15) can glide when revolved about V. · 'l:he upper plate of L L' is slotted like the handle of a penknife, and the eclges LL and LL' are beveled and provided 'Vith a millimetre graduation, the numerals of which correspond with a scale of 1 :50000 (50 m = 1 mm). A ratchet screw, c, serves to move a Plate(/( 0 ](')with two index marks K and ](',which c:an be made to coincide with the intersections of the. fiducial edge of the alidade d' d and the two sharp graduated edges .L L and L L'. The index Plate K 0 K' also has a double vernier, n", on the opposite side of the ratchet screw c, graduated to read s10 111 m (i. e., to read metres for the rot(J-0 scale) in connection with the millimetre scales LL and LL'. When the zeros of this double vernier n" coincide with the zeros of the graduated edges LL and LL', the marks of the double index]{ and Will coincide with the edge V p of AB (i. c., with the axis of the instrument) and also with the fiducial edge of alidade d' 11, the zero of the Vernier n of the alida.de also coinciding with the zero of the arc l:raduation G g g' (i. e., the fiducial edge of d d' will fall together witb the axis p V of the instrument). . In figure 5 A represents a point of the terrene, the image of which ~s designated by a in the perspective inn. 1f A' is the projection of A ~~ t.he horizontal plane passing through Y, then A 1l' will represent the t·ltl'erence of elevation= L between the points A and V. VA' will be ue horizontal distance= I) of the point A from the camera station V, Which distance is represented by
r: D- . for a scale of map of 1 :50000. oOO 00

lleturning to figure 15, we imagine the bypsometer revolved about the ll.eedle center in V until the hypsometer axis p V passes through a Plotted point A' in the drawmg. If the ruler 1lf Ill' had previously been secured·iu such a position that the distance of lJ from V = d and if d ii/

88

iJ. 8. COAST AND GEODE'fW SURVEY.

had been set to lay off the ordinate y upon p '1 from p, and if we now oring the index mark ]( in ii position to mark the intersection of the fiducial edge of the alidadc with the edge L L, then the triangle VA A' (fig.15) will also represent (in the scale of l :50000) the triangle VA' A of figure r>. The index mark Jl indicating on the edge LL the length

fJ(~O<)'

we will fiml the difference of elevation between the point A and

camera station V by reading the corresponding vernier n" The triangles r p <land 1' A' A (fig·. 15) being si1nilar ones, we will have: A A' J> a y l'°Jf' = l' p = d we found (page GB). y L

-d= j)

hence and a!4 YA'=

A.A'
V~Li

=7)

L

i:>Ofioo' we have
L A A.' = L = 50000 x A. A'.

5uooo

The numerals of the grad nation of the edges L L and L L' and of the double vernier n" give the value A A' multiplied by 50,000, which is the difforence of elevation. It has been previously shown (page ti8) that tan and therefore

L y a=n= d

AA' tan a= v·:-;rr

Hence, if wo have the angle of elevation of a point A of the terrenc we need only t.o lay oft' this angle upon the g-raduute<l_ arc G {] u' by means of the alidade vernier n, from g, aml place the index mark ]{. upon the intersection of the fiducial edge of alidade arnl edge LL (tM instrument haviug been placed upon the drawing in such a position that the hypsomcter axis pusses through the plotted point A'), and thcJI read off on L and corresponding vernier n" the difference of elevation between camera station and point A. This case becomes very mucll simplified when the image A' of A is bisected by the vertical thread of perspective (axis of y). as then: x=o and

d=J:

'l'be alidade is placed HO as to lay off the ordinate y of the point°' upon pq from p, after the ruler 111 ill' had been secured in a position at

REPORT FOR 1893-PART I II.

89

a distance = f from V; then the index: mark ]( or ](' is brought into the point o'f intersection of the fiducial edge of <7 <l', with edge LL or L L' of the ruler LL' (the axis of hypsometer passing through the plotted Point A'), and the difference of elevation between A and r is read off either on the vernier corresponding . to the graduation L L or to the· graduation LL'. Tile correction for curvature and refraction to Le appJied to these differences of elevation is taken from the ordinary field tables.' A. special list (Model Xo. 2, Supplemeut) is made for the secondary Points, in which they are tauulated according to the numerals or symbols with which they were characterized on the perspectives, and they are catalogued according to the pauorama iu1d perspective to which th~y belong. This list also contains the differences of elevation between ·them arnl the two or more stations whence they were determined, as Well as their absolute elevations, the latter being the mean of the va.Iues Obtained from the different stations and corrected for curvature and refraction. The elevations of the camera stations are the mean results' of the '\'alues obtained by adding or subtracting the difference of elevation (obtained by meaus of the gTaphical hypsometer) to or from the known elevations of the triangulation points (usiug the vertical angles observed ~ith the theodolite and the grapbically measured horizontal distauces etween }>lotted camem station aud triangulation points). b After the secondary points, including their subscribed elevations, have een transferred from the construction board t-0 the final plan, it retnains ouly to interpolate the contours between these voints, in harlliouy with the atli.xed figures, to sketch in the details aml everything that is neede11, and to give the terrene its proper character, all based Upon frequent reference to the perspectives of the terreue in question.
'CONCLUSION.

h As the work at a phototopographic station can be finished within an our or an hou.i· and a 11alf, aud as two or t.liree well-selectea i;tations .\'v'ill control the horizontal and vertical representatiou of an extended :rea, the fieldwork will take 110 morn time for a detailed :mrvey than ;~ a .gencrnl survey, mi the perspectives will be the same for both. t e difference in the time Hee<led for ohtai11i11g a more or lesR detailed g~l>ographic map dcpeuds npon the ottice wo1:k only, every panorama h·viug the means to construct therefron:1 an unlimited nnmuer of t:rizoutal dircctious from the camera station to surromHling points, as i e number of secondary points selected from the perspectives can be ~!creased indefinitely to the limit of tho patience aml ability of the raftsu 1 au. fo;he panoramic perspectives, 11owever, a.re not only. important aids Ch the construction of the map, but they can also serve as subsequent ecka upon the work of the dru.ftsman, and if they are preserved,

90

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

t.ogether with the catalogues containing the immerals, syml.Jols, etc., of their secondary points, their elevations, etc. 1 they can serve for future illustrations of the mapped terreue, giviug the relief modeler important details to enhance an<l complete the natural character of the model, etc. From the foregoing it is e'vi<lent that phototopography is especially well adapted for topographical surveys of mountainous regions, as the ordinary topographical methods for such regions can be carried on 011ly during a few summer months each year with advantage. Even in favoral..>le season8 the weather will be very vacillating; clouds will obscure during the warm0\' hours of nearly every bright day the more elevated peaks, wind.s will carry misty vapors from one \'alley to another, etc., so that the camera can obtain in a short bright i11terval more t.opographical data than could lie outained in weeks of time with .the other instrumental meth()(ls. Even if the selected camping ground is most favorably situated for the work, the ordinary topog'!'aphcr will have to traverse long and diflicult <lista11ces before be will reach a· favorable point for a. topographical station. I-le can not leave camp before daybreak, and he can not risk a late return on account of the . danger to life and limb (not mentioning his instruments) attending a tramp through rough mountain regions by night. He will arrive at the selected st:ition in a fatigued and nervous condition, bave but· a sbort time t.o spend there, and consequently will hurry through bis obser· vatiom1. As is well known, the topographer can, under general circumstances, determine prominent points by the intersections of horizontal llirections from a 1111mber of stations or by telemeter readings from one station. In order to secure the details, however, he will have to traverse the country quite extensively and make 11umerous sketches in order t-0 give it the proper character and to delineate the terrene bY' horizontal contours. Not many horizontal aml vertical angles can be obtained in a single day either with the p~ane table, the theodolite, the taehemeter, or other instruments, as the topographer will have to spend a' good deal of his time, at the station, iu making sketches in order t0 identify tlie points of the liues of direction for subsequent lines to .th0 same oQjects from other statio11s (in order to get the correct intersections). The wor.k will be Htill less encouraging if tbe use of the telemeter is depended upon to determine secondary ri11d tertiary points, on aecount of the slow progress, the danger to life and limb of the telemeter men, etc. Ifwe ndd to this the low temperature and snow, it will be impos· sible to work more thau a few hours at one t:itation with the plane table, theodolite, etc., t.o get directions and make sketcbes. It appears certain, at beat, that, under t110 co11ditio11s which always prevail ill mountains of an alpine character, the r>0sitions and elevations of prominent points only will be <letermine<l (and often only such a.a are absolutely necessary), the telemeter will be discarded, and tbe characteristic forms of the tcrreue, which are only seen at a <listanoe,.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

91

are sketchily reprnseuted. 1f <lctaih; are mapped at all t11ey will be unreliable, aml the honrs at which they can be seen to the best advantage are few. These faet.s render topographic surveys of such lllountai11s 11ot 011ly tedious, difficult, t1-11<l expensive, but also unreli· able. They explain why so few maps giye the true representation of such regions, an<l they also show the great advantage to be derived by applying photography to the surveys of all regions which are difficult of access or inaccessible, aml where snow, ice, and bail weather prevail the entire year. The photographic perspectives will not only reproduce the terrene before one's eyes at :my plact>, allll at auy time, but we cnu also construct a topographic map, based on, such views, with the Utmost correctness that may be demanded by science or industry. It is eviuent, therefore, that phototopography is to be recommended in the followiug· cases: 1. Vor all mountains of an nlpine clmracter where, if the ordinary topographic methods are followed, the lack of control will give but l.nediocre results. 2. For extensive scientific expeditions and explorations, for reconllaissance in times of war, for topographic surveys in trnhcalthy local· ities along the frontiers of belligerent nations, etc. 3, For surveys for geological studies, for projected railroads through tl:lountains, for hydrographical surveys for river ameliorations; in short, for suryeys for all purposes where correct representation aud charact31· Of the tcrrene, as well as full details, are desired. 4. For uaval purposes or on board of vessels fitted out for explorations, to obtain coast views, topographic and hydrogrnphic sketches ~f hostile or barren coasts. (Two or more shore stations are selectl':ld froni tl1e deck of the vessel autl panoramic views are taken therefrom, eare being had to include in these perspectives the vessel, anchored boats, buoys; moored flags aud other secured objects which served to control the soundings, simultaneously carried on with the topographic survey.) , l?·A. special apparatus, for use on shipboard, ha.s been invented by ti aganini. lt furnishes a vertical photogTapllic perspective of a known 0 cal length and at the same time gives ti.le m<ignetic azimuth of the ~~tical axis of the camera for each perspective. ;I.'he azimuths of all cl.'e points along ti.le coast shown on the perspective can be taken lrectly from the perspective. · Pio l~aganini, engineer geogTapher and director of the phototopo· ~apbical work in Italy, in n. report recently made to the First Geo:apbical Congress in Italy, says the following, relati~ig to the irnproveth~nts of his camera thooclolite (a German translation, by Fenner, of w18 report bas been irnblisbed in the Zeitscllrift fiir Vcrmessungsesen, Ie92): l>' '.l:heprincipnl improvement to the camera theodolite consists in droplllg the eccentric telescope of the theodolite (Fig. A.) andchangiugthe

92

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

instrument so that the· "photographic <·a11w1·li fo itself 1rill scri·c as a centrally located telescope." Paganini accomplished this by replacing the ground-glass plate of the camera by an opaq_ue plate which llas a Hamsden ocular leus i11 the center. 'fhi;, new apparatus has all the details of a transit, with a centrally located telescope. The same instrument serves to obtain tlle photographic panorama as well as to measure the horizontal angles necessary to orient the panorama or needed for the determination of tlle camera station by resection, and to measure the vertical angles for the determination of the elevations.jj< Th,e plates Nos. 6 ,and. 7 of the new map of Italy, comprising the terrene to the north of Chiavemm to Spliig-en, were obtained in 1889 by means of the former instrument (Fig. A), and they are now com· pleted and have been published. A comparison between a recent edition (scale 5 -0 t>uo, with contours of 50 metres interval, excepting the lowlands, where t.he intel'val is 10 metres) and the adjoining sheet of the Swiss ''Dufour Atlas" r-;hows that the former appcarR to represent the terrene more true to nature, antl alt.l10ug·h the Swiss map mu ks higher from au artistic poiut of view, it also evinces a certain uniforJJl uu<lisputable neglect of characteristic topographic features. During the exposition of charts and maps at Vienna, (in 1891), under the auspices of the Ninth CongTess of German Geographers, this Italian map was generally praised and declare1l by competent judges to de3erve the first i·ank above all other exhibits. In 1890 Paganini, assisted by the topographer H.imbotti, began the work of photot-0pographing the elevated parts of the terrene of plate No. 29 of the new Italian map, which comprises the difficult group of Monte l:Wsa, with elevations of 4,liOO metres. They m;ed two instru· men ts, one of the older imtteru and one of the latest construction. TbiS work, however, had to be interrupted in 1891 in order to do "more important work for military purposes." Paganini also me11tio11s that; he had been engaged iu the same year upon an "important military work," to accomplish which ho doubtless would not have succeeded without the aid of photogrammetry. · Co11cluding hi:s repo1t, Pag·anini made some very i11teresti11g remarks concer11ing a re1:entJy invented instrument, which, however, is not yet constructively finiHlwd. Jt is ahm a photogrnphic instrument, bnt to be used 011 shipboard, a111l which he terms a" photographic azimutalc.'' Formerly the perspectives used to illustrate portions of the coasts in or<lcr to facilitate the identification of such portions by sailors whe!l a\lproachiug the coast from the sea, were published with and upon th 0 charts or iu the coast-pilot llooks. Tiley were olltaiued in the follo"'· ing manner: From the deck of a vessel at anchor a free-hand perspective drawing would be made of tlw desired part o( the coast, including all prominent

- - - - - .. ·-··

---·

····-----······--··------·

.

· Paganiui propose!! to Jill hlii;h

11

dettiilecl description of tilis new apparatus silortlY"

---·-------

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

93

features, particularly light-houses and navigation marks. ('rite nse of an orclinary camera was preclu1led on a!'conn t of the rockiug motion of the Yessel.) 'l'he angles formed by the lines of direction from tlw Yessel to the various promiueut points shown iu the perspective were measured\' ith <L sextant, aiHl the Io1:al magnetic azimuth of one of these lines wonlu also be determined (giving· the local maguetic a;,,imnth of all other lines of direction to points on the perspective). 'l'hese magnetic bearings were inscribed in the dra\\"ing aboye the poi11ts to which they referred. 'J'he place of anehorage had to be deter111i11e1l as accurately as possilJle and plotted upon the coast chart. Such perspectives (it is said that Porro showed a remarkable skill in !llaking such views) wou'ld naturally lJe obtaim·d more readily an<l far tnore accurately if a photographic instrume11t conl<l be constructed to be used on sltiplJoard for this pnrpose. Paganini (having been an ofilcer in the Italian 11a.vy until 1877) had for :;evcral years ma<le studies and investigations with the auove object in view, parti~.ularly since the instantaneous i>rocess in photography had been developed to the present degree of pcrfectiou. The "photographic azimntale," the constmction of which is now wcll under way, if not alfoa<ly completed~ is the direct result of Paganini's Rtudies in this direction. This im;trnment can he called a transit, 1he telescope of which is replaced by a photographic camera, which can be converted into a telescope by replacing the grouud-glass plate by im opaque plate with an ocular lcmi m the centei~. This instrument differs frorn Paganini's latest improved camera theodolite by its mounting and by the additional attachment of a dial compass. Regarding the mounting -0f this "photographic a;,,imutale," we will say that it rests upon a plate which swings. in gimbals; both are conllected by a central clamp screw, which has a heavy weight attached to Secure a permanent horizontal position of the horizontal limb or the 'V(lrtical position of image plate . . . The compass resembles the Schmalkaldcr or azimuth compass and ls placed centrally above the horizontal plate and within the ringShaped alidade.. The magnetic bearing of the optical axis for every D.er8pective is secured by photographing directly upon the image plate l!t111ultaneously with the picture of the coast (and immediately below ~he vertical wire) that part of the compass graduation which lies in he direction of the view photographed. The zero diameter of the dial compass always being in the magnetic lll.eridiau, the compass reading designated by that graduation mark "'h' . lch. we find bisected by the prolonged vert.ical thread under the ~lcture will represent the magnetic azimuth of the optical axis of the lllstrument at the moment of the exposure, or it will indicate the an.gle of orientation for the picturo. .

94

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Tllis pictl,lre of the compa~s graduation, caught simultaneou.sly with tllat of the coast view, is obtiiined by means of a small secondary camera placed immediately above the compass and below the main camera. The optical axes of these two cameras are at right angles witl1 ead1 other. The image of the compass graduation in the secondary camera is retlccted by mcaus of a suitably placed prism upon the image plate of the main camera. In order to obtain the pictures of both cameras simultaneously, the shutters of both are operated automatically and at the same rnomcnt. The "pl10tographic azimutale" is to be perma11ently secured to the captain's bridge, forming a, part of thn instrumental outfit of every naval vessel. By replacing the gimbul support by a tripou the instrument can be useu for work 011 land. It is also tested and adjusted on shore in order to adjust the .horizontal thread by means of the sea horizon. Paganini mentions that this instrumeut is well adapted to photo· graph the illuminated sectors of light-houses and the rauge of visibility of navigation marks. He also believes that the same ca11 be empluyed with advantage for the topographic and hydrographie surveys of harbors, wharves, seldom-frequented coasts, for military or scientific expeditions, for the determiuation of tl1e geographical 'latitude of a vessel's position by means of the image of the suu, which can readily be obtained with sufficient sharpness, including the illuminated sea horizon, to give good results, etc. . From every picture slto.wiug the image of the sun we can find the sun's declination a11d azimuth, and the time being known we can compute the geographical position. Whether such semigraphical determina· tious are sufficiently accurate for practi<:al mie and whether i:;extant observat10ns will be supplanted by these, time aud experience can onlY" teach; at prci:;cnt there are no comparative results to comnrnuicate. 'l'he preceding· clJaptcrs show that photographic surveying is being pushed to a high degree of perfection in Italy, and we are particularlY indebted to J>agauini for the numerous improvements 80 recently made in photographic and graphical instruments, i11cluding methods of use for topogravhic a11d hydrographic surveys.

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PAii'l' lI.

95

SUPPLEMENT.
' MODEL

No.

1.

Station on Punta Biv1ila (t1·ig. pt.), on the ridge between the valleys of the Valsavam110he and R6111es.

[September 18, 1ssq Orientation of the panorama.

.

Perspectives Directions to be{i~~~ng the principal Focal distance. panorama . points of view.

Remarks.

·0

.P~nta Gran Paradiso: 78° 27 1 oo'I

I

pt

78 H4 150 186 222 258 294 330 6 42

27 27 27 27 27 27 27 27 27 27

244·5mm

P'

pa
p5
}'0

P·
Punta Della Grivola: 123° 47 1 9011

-~~OJ

OJ

p1
pa

I :g~ . UJra .
·~ OJ

.l:l

Time of exposure: ,10s, with smallest diaphragm, No.7. 10·. 9'· 12·. 9'· 10·. 9'· 108 · 10·. 108 · Fine weather.

.<::<::
c:

p9
p10

Ui

·~ ~

----Directions and vertical an~les of the trlgonometricnl points. Computation of elevation of station and clevatio~ of line of horizon. '

-

Station upon the half-destroyed signal. Elev. of instr. =; 2·3om. Geodetic point, elevation =3413·69m. 2·3010 · ' Elev. of instr. Elevation of lines of horizon of panorama =3415·99m=3416-om,

=

..

1:he adjoining page is utilized for topographic sketch from station, detailed remarks, nnmes of roads, etc.

96

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
~IoDEL

No. 1.

Station 011 1'1111ta I'crcia, 0111'idge between the t·allcyH of tho ralaavaranclw and the Remcs.
[S<'ptembcr 19, 1884.]
Direction~ I IOncntat10n of the pano- ! Pcrspel:~ivcs belonging I the principal Focal cl!stance.I rama. · to the )Qin ts of view· I panorama. I I I ! ,
. , to ,'
1

I

I

Rel-narks.

, - - - - - - -·

-

-· --

Punta dell' Erbctet: 282° 04' oo"

]'I

" 170 oo

I ! Time of exposure:
6·. Shorter exposure than before on acconnt of the great reflection of snrrounding glacier.

244·5"""

!

P·
}'3

p.1 po
pr.
}>7

206 00 242 00 278 00 314 00 350 00

7·.
8·. 9·.
108 ·

pa

26

p9
]'IU

62 98 184

00 00

8·. 9·.

9·. Fine weather.
Io". _Diaphragm .!\o.

00 00

7.

.

7·.

Directions uncl vertical anf;!les of the trigonomct- . Computation of elevation of stution ancl clc\·ation ricnl points.. . : of line of horizon. -- ---------· - ;
0

-

I

II

m.

Cima di Brcuil, Elevation, Punta dell' Erbetet, Elevation, Cima di Nomenon, Elevation, Cima di Rouletta, Elevation, Punta dell' lnvergnan, Elevation, Cima di Toss, Elevation,

220
I

54 33 04 36 42 38

00
00

Elevation lnvergnan Diff. of elev. corr.

+

- 36o7·7 2
406·15 3201 ·57

282 3 ·222
I

IO

30 00 30 30 30
00

--3488·42 284·94 3202·48 3302·24 99·84 3202·40

Elevation Nomenon Diff. of elev. corr.

+

0 44 3 11

---·
= =
-

Elevation Toss Diff. of elev.

So 07 3 42
34 0
II

+

corr.

00 30 30 Elevation Breuil Diff. of elev. corr.

30

+

Elevation Roulctta Diff. of elev. corr.

+

----3454 ·6 2 252·64 3201 ·98 3384·10 182·28 3201 ·82 3202·3

---

Elev. of line of horizon

·_REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
MODEL

97

No. 2.

Elcvatio11R uf secon<lary points of tho pa11orn111a.
Na.mes or num .. hers of points.

Stations whence they were derived

.

I
1

'
Ele\'atlons of stations. Diff. of clev11.tions. Ele,·ation of point. Remarks.

I

-----

S. Ex. 19, pt. 2-7

98

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVIEY.

PHO'.l'OGlMPHJC INSTRUMENTS AND ME'.l'IIODS EMPLOYED FOR TOPO· GRAPJUC SURVEYS IN '.l'HE DOMINION OF CANADA.

The phot.otopography of the l~ocky l\Iountain region in the North· west Territory of the Dominion of Canada proved a suecess. and several of the Dominion to1)Qgraphic and land surveyors (.J. J. :McArthur, W. S. Drewry, etc.), under the direction of the surveyor general, Capt. E. Deville, have acquired skill and valuable experience in this branch of surveying, as is well proven by Deville's topographic map of th0 Rocky l\lou11tains along the Canadian Pacific Railroad, based on tri· angulation and phototopography, plotted on 1: 20000 and published on 1: 40000 scale, and which was on exliibition at the Columbiall World's l<'air.

H

0

H

Fm. 10.

Under the direction of Dr. W. F. King, Alaskan boundary eom1nis· sioner to Her Majesty, phototopography has been successfully employe_d for the topographic survey of southeastern Alaska, as far as th 18 ropographic reconnaissance has been executed under the Government of tbe Dominion of Canada. Tbe views taken from the camera stations of the Dominion surveY8 . are not·complete or full sets of panoramic views, and when the statioIJS are close.together, even those few plates which are exposed from 011° 0 station do not always comprise adjoining pictures. According to tll desired grewter vertical or l.lorizoutal cx~uaion of the viow, the c1:mer~

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PART II.

99

Can be pla-0ed with either the long or short side in an upright position upon the tripod. The camera is a rectangular box of well-seasoned mahogany (fig. 16), strongly bound in brass and very carefull~' constructed, with opposite Sides parallel and adjoining sides at right angles to each other. The camera has neither telescope, horizontal uor vertical circles, as it is ~Seel in conjunction with a transit, the same tripod serving for both 1llstrurneuts. All angles are observed with this transit, either before

c

A

B

a

a

a

}'Ill.

17.

c· a ter the exposure of the plates has been made. Care must be exer· ~E>e(l not to disturb the tripod when chaugmg the instrnmeuts. The l> lnera is secured to the tripod by meaus of a separate triangular supcOrt (fig. 17); the three i,;crews marked a serve to level up the l al.nera before each exposure of a plate. ·A brasi,; plate, with two spirit ll.el7els placed at right angles to each other, can be attached to the ti1iermost side of the camera, aud tlus pan· of levels iR used for the

llt f

100

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

leveling up. The central clamp screw, b, serves also as vertical axis when revolving the camera in a;1,imuth. The camera box AB 0 (fig. 17) IS provided with two 11uts inserted into and made tlnsh with the face of the camera, 011e in the centel' of a small si<le aucl the o_ther in the center of au adjoining long side. Tliese nuts receive the centl'al clamp screw, b (fig. 17), of the triangular camera support, aml a circular brass plate inserted into these same sides, with the nuts as centers, forms the bearings for the three camera rests, e (fig. 17), when revolving the camera horizontally. The clamp screw, b, of the camera support is drawn only tight enough still to permit the camera to be rotated in horizontal plane, and after tho double levels have been inserted into the slide of the uppermost side of the camera, the latter leveled up and oriented, this central screw, b, is tightened snfiicicutly to secure the. fixed position of the camera when the shde is drawl). and tbe plate expose<l. Each camera is pro· vided with six double plate holders, JI J1. t, (fig. Hi), bearing· !l number on each side (from 1to1!.!) to enable the operator to keep b trace of the plates. a'---------11--------" The latter are made by B. J. Edwards & Flo. 18. Uo., TheGrove,IIack· ney, London, England. They are the so-called isochromatic instantaneous plates of 4jj by 6~ inches (old English half plate), all of one emulsion and made as uniformly in every respect as possible. Four sets of teeth (fig.18), each set about one-eighth of an inch wide, are securely fastened to the camera box, as close as possible to tb 0 plate-holder slides, in such a manner that the lines (horizon and priu· cipal Iiues) joining the middles of two opposite sets are parallel to tbe faces of the camera box. These metal teeth t 1 ti t 3 t 4 (fig. 18) are placed close enough t-0 the plates to give sharp and well-defiued prints of the same. After the camera has been leveled up the plates are vertical, the line t 1 ti is horizontal, f3 t4 is vertical, and the '' principlll point" (the mtersection of t, t2 and i:1 t.1) is in the optical axis of the ca1~era. Capt. B. Deville has chauged these teeth, as they were to 0 long, anu inasmuch as tho lens, levels, sunshade, etc., are carried within the camera box during transportation, and the jarring motiotl to whwll the pack is exposed 1s liable to dislodge, or at least to l>end,

1'EPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

101

~he teeth, he advocates their being placed farther back, as shown in figure 18a. Some of the Canadian cameras have a revolvable plate, with lens eccentrically located, so that the width of the picture remains the same throughout, but the horizon can be cleva,teu or lowered by turning this revolvable plate. This pla.:j:e, being of wood, swells in dam1) weather au<l then can not be moved. Then, too, <Wery movable part of an instrument is a sonr~e of' uucer- A B t~in errors. Capt. E. De"1lle's experience teaches that the best results are obtained with a camera · that is perfectly rigid in ~.JI its parts, of a co11stant ioca] length, immovable lens, situated in 011c-thirr1 t~1e length of one short Slde from either l011g sitle and midway between two D short sides ~f the camera C. a.a inuieatcd in figure l8a. Fio. JRa. ~hi~ arrangement will enabl(~ the snrveyor to elevate or depress the 0 rt7.on by resting the camera 011 the face A B or C]) (fig. 18a). A. square diaphragm, a. b c r]. (fig. 18), plriccd within the camera box a<llllit!,; only the light needed for the development of the negative, eicc}ndi11g si1le lights or rays wbid1 111ay possibly be reflectccl from the calllera sides. , .A. small mahogany box, with a shutter made like a, venetian blind, can readily be secnrcd to the tnhe of the camera lens in cn.·;e it becomes necessary to excl.nde the direct sunlight ancl shade the lens (fig. HI). '.I.'lw camcra faces, which are provided with the level attachment(B and O, fig. Hi), n.lso show two converging l·'IU. 10. J'mes, a f:J anu ,1 -" ( "d 11 y u st e 0 , lG), which indicate the range of the lens in horizontal and vertical ll aue. One set of these lines will appear on the uppei· face (B, fig. Hl) ()f the camera when in use, while the other set (a f:J and yo, side G) will ~Pear on one Yertical·side. '.I.'his arra.ngemeut enables the surveyor b s~e what part of the panorama he is taking during· the exposure QY' sighting along tho two lines of the horizontal face, and also up and own the two lines a f3 and y o marked on one of tl10 vertica1,..,faces of

····----

r

I

102

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVRY.

tbe camera, tlms dispensing with the use of the ground-glasB plate and shade cloth altogether. After the camera !las been orientetl by means of these sight liues and leveled u1), as mentioned before, the central clamp screw is tightened and the plate exposed. The lens is a wide~111gle lens, No. la, of rig-inch focus, made by J. H. Dallmeyer, in London. It really is a combination of two similar lenses, between which the diaphragm is inserted. The aperture of the latter (the stop) used is always the s~une for all pictures. 'rJiat end of the lens tube which faces the negative is closetl by a planoparallcl plate of a yellow or orange color to lessen the actinic action of the blue and violet rays upon the isochromatic plates, tlmR securing a sharp <mtline of distant mountain ranges and ridges. With the plates used, this lens gives an angle of about 45° for the small sitle and G0° for the long side of the picture. The camera, six double plate hol<lcrs (including twelve plates), sunshade, levels, camel's-hair brush for removing dust particles from the slicles, etc., are securely packecl into a sole-leather case, which has straps attach_e<l to it in such a way that the whole <'an easily be carried 011 tbe back like a knapsack. The triangular support of the cam· era is packed with the transit, und the case of the iatter is also inclosed in a sole-leather lrnapsack, with straps for the extension tripod, both FIG. 20. being carried together on the back. The cameraA are made by ,J. H. Dallmeyer, No. ~5 :Newman street, Lonclon, "''. 'l'he transits autl trip()(ls are ma<le by Troughton & Sims, 138 Fleet stl'cct, London, E. C. Every eveniug the surveyor replaces the exposed pln.tes in his darl' tent by new ones, using a ruby-colored light. He marks the exposed plates in one corner, before their removal from . the holder, with his initials, tlw nmnher of the dozen aud of the plate, using a soft lead· pencil. e.g., HI 5 means plate :No. 5 of tl1e third clozcu. (The plates are packed in sets of a dozen c:wh.) The exposed autl marked plates arc placetl into_ a clouble tin bo~ (fig. 20) which can be closecl hermetically and which will float whcII filled with two dozeu plates, if by acciclcnt it should be thrown into water. 'fhese boxes are shipped to the head oflice, in Ottawa, whel'e the plates are cleveloped by a specialist (Mr. 'l'opley). The outline sketches of the different perspectives arc designated bY the same numerals as the plates to which they belong. 'l'hey show the peaks, saddfos, and points to which horizontal directions were takell with the transit (or altazimnth), and they alHo coi;taiu remarks about

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

103

the weather, illmnination, time ·of exp<isure, names of localities and features, and any other needed data. Tim data obtained with aid of the transit for triangulation pnrposes are recorded in tll(\ usnal manner. · The length of exposure for the plates is determined experimentally: as it may be assumed that the same length of exposure will suit a similar subject under similar conditions, with a light of equal intensity, tlte vlates being all of one emulsion. So-called photometers are used to measure the intensity of the light. They consist of au endless strip of sensitized paper incased in a small metal box-like a small tapeline-a short portion of the paper being exposed to the light and the time noted (in seconds) which it takes to bronze the exposed part of the paper. 'l'lio nature and coloring of the subject vary but little in phototopography, aud the time of exposure should be regulated with reference .to the shadows or dark colors of the distant landscape; the darker these are, the longer tlte time of exposure should be (ten to forty seconds). Ou the southeastern Alaskan boundary survey, Mr. 0. J. Klotz, Dominion topographical surveyor, received the exposed plates from the differe11t shore parties, and by.way of test developed one plate out of every set of a dozen plates in a dark room fitted up for tllis purpose on the steamer 1'kistlc to see that no lia<l plates had crept in. The other plates were shipped to Ottawa, where the photographic specialist developed them a111l also made the enlarged prints (four times the size of the original negative) on heavy bromide paper, which enlarged pri11ts are preferably usod for tho map construction, as they permit a greater precision in making direct linear measurements and the drawing of construction liues, which wonld become too minute and intricate if done on the small contact prints. However, if the loss of detail becomes a seriouG objection, larger cameras t:>houlcl be used or the enlargements should be made on glass. (i-lass transparencies (enlarged.from the small negatives) show rninufo details in the shadows as well as in the high lights and assure more accurate results., there being no irregular expansion and contraction, as will always be more or Ies8 the case with paper prints. The only objection against enlargelnents on glass lles in the fact of their being less handy in manipulation durmg the process of the map construction thau paper prints. Still the latter could be used for the locat1011 of points of detail and minor hnportance, while all data forming the control of the map are preferably deduced from the eularged glass prmts. Captain Deville is greatly in favor of dispensing with the use of paper prmts altogether, and advocates the use of glass enlargements exclusively, the ensuing loss of tinte bemg outweighed by far by the great gain in accuracy. The horizontal a.ngles observed with the transit (or altazimuth) to the pomts of the terrcne marke<l on the outline sketch wl..11ch accom1.lanies each negative serve not only for the orientation of the horizontal

104

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

project.ion of the plate on the plan (the picture trace), but they also aid to counteract in a measure and to ascertain the distortion of the paper print:-;. The vertical angles, with the plotted distances, are used to check and verify the position of the horizon line on the different photographs. To test whether the plate is vertical after the camera has been leveled up the following process is carried out: Insert a piece of plate glass or a pluno parallel mirror of 4~ by 6~ inches into the plate holder, open the rear slide of the latter, and level the camera carefully. Now set up a level (altazinrnth 01· transit, with the vernier of the vertical circle set at 0°) near the back of the camera and revolve in azimutl1 until a well-defined and distant point of the landscape is covered by the intersection of the cross wires of the level telescope; the reflection of the same point must also be visible in the reflecting surface at tlie back of the camera from the level station. If on directing the level toward this reflected image the latter is also

--if;A
FIG. 21.

·----~

bisected by the horizontal wire of the level the plate in the camera will be vertical. (Sec fig. 21.) If A is tlie vosition of the level an<l Ethe select~d point of the terrene on level with the eleyation of the instrument and B G the reflecting surface at the back of the camera, then the line A E will be horizontal, and if the plate B G is vertical B will be reflected in B G at JJ and D A ani.l B will he in the same horizontal plane. Should the top of B G be inclined toward A (a.sin fig. 21), then the ray B]) will be reflected in the direction of]) Ji', and the reflected point D will 110 longer be bisected by tlic horizontal wire of the level, but will fall below the Rame. Should the plate B a incline upward, as shown in B' C', the reflection 1> of liJ would appear above the horizontal thread of t.he level telescope, R D being now reflected in the direction ]) U. Should the plate be thus found not to be vertical after the camera has been leveled. up, the mchnat1on must be changed by means of the levchug screws of the camera until ]) falls upon the horizontal thread of the level telescope, and the level, which IH at right angles to the

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

105

camera plate, must HOW be adjusted to conform with this corrected position of BG. The plate holders must of courRe be well made, and all be exactly alike, so that the above conditions are folfilled by every one of them, and that the distance of the i:;ensitive phtte from t)ie lens be the same; i.e., the sensitive surface of everyplate should fall into the focal plane of the camera lens. The focal length of the camera, which has a constant value for every camera, must be determine(l directly if the 11egatives are to be used for plotting; but if prints are to subserve the construction of the map, this determination shonl1l be made from a print. It has been previo1rnly mentioned that the prints rarely correspond in size with the negatives. They eitlrnrexpaud orcontnwt, sometimes both, and the distortion is greatm· in one direction of the pa.per than in the other. If this distortion h; uniform in all directions the print will be simiJar to the negative and correspond to the perspective of the same landscape on a vertical plane (parallel to the plate), but nearer the lens when contracted a,11(1 farther from the lem; when expauded. The prints have either a Hhortel' or a longer distance line (focal length) than the camera vlate. As (enlarge<l) prints arc used for the map construction of the Canauian survey in Houtheastem Alaska, the constants required for this construction of the horizontal plan (i. e., the focal length, the horizontal and principal lines) a,re obtained from such a print. This is done by taking a picture of Ronie large buildiug or any landscape with well-defineu points from a Rtation of which the distances to said pointR are known or can be ascertained by direct measurements in tlrn field. From the same station vertical and horizontal angles are measurerl to the selected points, and the points as well as the station are plotted on a sheet of paper, and radials are drawn from the plotted station through the selected :wu plotte<l point8 marked on the print a.nd plotted on the paper. On a strip of paper, orn1 edge of which is made perfectly straight, the points marked on the photograph are laid off, and this strip is moved over tlrn plotted rnclial8 until the 1i1:ie8 l>iseet. the corresponding points inarke1l off on the straight edge. A line is now drawn along this edge on the drawing sheet and a perpendicular dropped on this line from the plotted station. (See fig. 22.) The line H H', representing the paper e<lge, will be the picture triwe, the perpendicular line b P will be the distance line, and P will represent the horizontal projection of' the principal point. The paper is now again laid on JI H' in imch a manner that the radials bisect the po~nts marked on tlie straight edge, and Pis marked off on the latter. From the known distances of the reference points from the station and their vertical angles the elevations of these points, above or below

106

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the horizon of the station, are computed and laid off on the photograph. This will enable the draftsman to draw the horizon line on the photograph, and after projecting the marked reference points upon this line the strip of paper is placed on this line in such a manner that the corresponding points cover each other, and Pis transferred to the picture. A vertical to H H' through P will represent the principal line Y V' on the print. The points where the principal and horizon line bisects the comb marks are noted and will serve to draw these lines on all other similar prints without any new determinatiom; ueing necessary. In order to lay off the elevations of the selected points above or below the horizon of the station au approximate horizon line had to he drawn on the photograph. This is done by setting the vernier of the vertical circle of the transit (which replaced the camera iu such a way that the
A1D \. C \.

4C

,.{8
'

.~ F"
I

\
\

/

i

/

/

H
I
\

5

'
\

\
\

'
\

\
'

'
I

'

.' \
\

\

.
\ '\ \
\ \ \ I
._'\ I

I .·
G

t

'I I

I
,· /'I
I

I

','

\\\

'':. :.~.

.,,

I

0
$TATI ON

0
FHI. 22.

optical axes of camera an<l level telescope were in the same horizontal plane) at 0° and noting several poiuts of the building or landscape which were bisected hy the horizontal thread of the telescope while level and hy drawing a line through the same points pictured on the photograpl1.
l'LO'l'TING.

The field data of the Canadian surveys in 'Alaska are plotted on a scale of 1: 80000, with a contour interval of 2GO feet, indicating the 1,000.foot contours by heavier lines. Prom the original negatives copies are made, four times enlarged on heavy bromide paper (92 by 13 inches), which arc used for the construction of the maps. The triangulation poi11ts, ohtaiued uy JllCl1ll8 of a 4-iuch transit, are

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

107

' plotted, and their elevatious (obtained barometrically, 'and checked by vertical angles whenever couvenieut) are added in red ink. Now the principal line and the horizon line are dl'awn on the prints through the proper points of the comb marks, or in proper position with reference to the position of the lens during the exposure of the original plate, if the lens was attached to a revolvable plate, an arrangement not approved by Capt. K Deville, as a surveying camera sbould be rigid in atl its parts i11 order to obtain uniform results. 'l'he horizon liue, ol>tain.e<l by means of the comb marks, is checked aml corrected, if ueccssary, by means of pictured points of known elevatiou, each print containing two or more points which have been determiued trig-onomctrically aud which llave previously hecn plotted 011 the working sheet and the elevations of which arc inscribed in re<l iu k. The Jlicture tl'accs arc plotted on the working 8heet as follows (fig. 23): 'l'alrn a triangle of hard rubber or wood a II(] mark off along one Ki de tl1e focal distance of the print ab from the right angle a, and carefnlly iiotch b so that the center of a needle a inserted into tliis notch will be at a distance from a. eqnal to thiK focal length. From the ontline sketch select a, point, C (fig.. 2:~a), to which angles have been read, alHl take the abscissa of C = C l',. between the points of a pair of dividers. Insert a 1i11e needle iuto tl1e plotted station (b, fig. 2:3) whence thc1 picture was taken and place the trianglll notcl.t b close to this needle; now move the triangle with tl1e left haJl(l so that the line of direction to tlu.· plotted point c will be covered by the triaugle, and with the right lland llold the <lividcn;, moving one point over this li11e of 23 uirectiou until a c is equal to Co l'o (the triFtn. · angle must be move<l likewise nutil tltis takes place). '1'1.te triangle is securely held iu thiK position and 1i11es are drawn ou the working sheet a.loug ti b a11d <1 c; prolong a c beyond a, aud now check the uistance <t c: again with the dividers (to be= 0 P Then b a.= horizontal i11·ojectiou of principal ray. a c = horiz. projection of' picture plane. = H H' =picture traee. a= priucipal point. The trace of the principal plane(= a. b) is only marked by a short line bearing an arrow pointing· toward the plotted station whenee the picture was taken, and the point a is marke<l the same as the print to
0

0

0 ).

108

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

which it refers; e. g., III 5 (fig. 22). The prints are marked with the name oftbe camera station whencetliey were taken, with the.nmnerical designation of their negative, and witb tbe elevation of the horizon line above the datum plane; e. g., N N, III 2, 4,860, mea11s name? of camera station, second plate of third set of a dozen plates (or really the twenty-sixth plate), and elevation of camera horizon= 4,860 feet above mean sea level. After the traces of the principal and corresponding picture planes have been plotted, the draftsman selects from the prints a pair of photographs which are represented on the plan by their traces, taken from two different camera stations and overlooking common ground. On these pairs he identifies as many points as possible, marking all corresponding points alike with nnmbcrs or letters and with a dot in red ink. Of course such points are chiefly selected which indicate characteristic features of and changes in the terrene like knolls and depressions in ridges, v· peaks, bends in streams, coves c in the shore line of·lakes and rivers, buildings, ete. After enough J)ictnrcs have been selected to develop a H' certain area and the identifiP. c.. cation and marking of corresponding points have been completed, projections of all these points on the horizonv line are marked (their ab-, 1"1<1. 23a. sci s ~rn s are measured) a11d transferred to the straight edge of a strip of paper, including the principal point of every photograph. These strips are now placed upon the plottell traces (fig. 22) to which they belong in 1mch n, ma1111er that the principal points of trace and paper strip coineide, and in this position they are held on the working sheet by means of small thumb tacks or paper weights. To plot the horizontal projections of a point sbown and marked on two prints we insert two fine needles into the plotted stations of these two prints and attach a fine silk thread to eaeh needle. 'l'he other eud of the thread is connected with a small paper weight by means of a thin rubber band (fig. 3371). The weighted thread attached to station needle I is now moved over the weighted Rtrip (indicating the picture trace) until it bisects tbe pro· jection a' of the sought point A. The weight is 11ow plaeed upon the pa1:ier, lwlding this thread under slight tension in this position. The second thread connected with the needle in Station I I is placed over t,he projection a" of the sought point, also under tension. The point of iuter·sectiou of these two threads will be the desired point A plotted.on

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

109

the map. After this position of point A on the plan has been checked, in the same manner, by means of another. photograph taken from a third station and containing- the picture of this point, its plotted i>osition is marked by a dot and its designation, as given on the prints, in red ink. After a sufficient number of points have been plotted in this manner by intersections, and after they have beeu supplied with the letters or numerals (in red ink) as given on the prints, their elevations are deter-

r
Fm. 23b.

mined and also added in red ink. Frequently the designation of the poiuts by· letters or numerals are only added in pencil, to be erased after the elevations have been added in red ink.
ELEV.A.TIO NS.

All points of the prints which are bisected by the horizon line H H' have the same elevation as the horizon of the camera station, which fact will greatly assist in drawing in the contours ou the plan. The latter can be plotted or drawn iu with the same precision as is attain-

110

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

able in other "irregular methods" of contouring if only enough points can be identified Oil the prints and established by intersections and . their elevations to cover the area sufficiently close to leave no place for doubt. Ridges, which appear in profile on the prints, will also facilitate cont-0nring, inasmuch as lines of directions drawn to charac· teristic points of thm;e ridges can be regarded as tangents to the contours passing tlirough such points. The htigr1ts of the pomts fixed by intersections are fouud by means of a so-called "scale of heights" (fig. 24). S x P = straight line divided into e11ual parts. SP= focal length of prints. P P' perpendicular to S P an<l divided i1tto equal parts. Erect verticals to SP in the points of division. Join the points of division along P P' to f'J.

s
FIG. 24.

This scale is used as follows: Take, with a pair of dividers, from the photograph the ordinate of any point bisected by the principal line of which the elevation is sought, transfer this length to P 1" from P. Suppose it conesponds to P7t = 1 l parts of the graduation of]> P'. Now take from the plan with the dividers the distance of the horizontal projection of the point (previously plotted by intersections) from the picture trace and lay this length off on SI' from P to the right·or left of P according to the positior. of the point on the plan in regard to the picture trace if beyond or within the trace and station. Suppose the point was between the plotted station and picture trace and it fell on x. Then the distance from a: t-0 a point vertically above a: on the ray S 7t (= 11) and measured on the plotting scale will represent the elevation of the point above or below the camera horizon. If the point on the photograph was above JI H' this length will have t-0 be added to the camera elevation and the sum is entered on the plan in pencil close to the plotted point. .After it ha~ been checked by a second photograph, and the discrepancy between thP.se two heights is within tbe permissibl~ limit of error, the mean is entered m red ink on the plan and the pencil marks are erased. After the elevations of a.ll the points plotted on the working sheet have been determined and entered on

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

111

the drawing in red ink, the streams, ridges, bluffs, and shore lines are drawn in, using intersections and tangents, whenever possible, to identify and locate their characteristic bends, their terminals, etc. Now the contour lines are drawn in by estimation between the established points of known elevation ("irregnlur method"), having the Rhore lines, streams, and ridges as guides, and studying the photographs as much as possible to modify the contours so as to represent minor inequalities nnd accidents of the terrene. As long as a sufJicient number of points is obtained by intersections there will be little difliculty in drawing in the contour lines, but in a rapid reconnaissance it may happen that the points which - can be plotted are too few and too far apart for defining the ~mrface, when it will become necessary to resort to so-called "tricks of trade" and less accurate methods. The perspectograph and similar instruments to convert perspectives into plan drawings and vice versa are too complicated (the numerous movable parts are sources of too much lost motion) to give results sufficiently accurate for topographical maps.
'.l'HE PlIO'.l'OGR.A.l>II BOARD.

(Fig. 25.)

So many lines are needl·d and drawn for the constructions on the photographs that it is advisable to prepare a special drawing board on which as many of the construction lines are drawn, once for all, as would have to be repeated for the different prints of uniform size. This so-called "photograph board" is an ordinary drawing board covered with tough drawing paper, the surface of which is to represent the picture plane, and it is used in conjunction with the photographs. Two lines, H H' and V' V, are drawn a.t right angles to each other; they represent the horizon and principal liues, while V P 0 = H P 0 = V 1 P 0 = B' P 0 = focal length of prints. By revolving the horizontal plane about H H' we obtain tho upper and lower distance points V' and Vin the picture plane, and by tnr}1ing the principal plane about the line V' V into the picture plane we obtain the left and right distance points H and Jl'. The. photograph is put on the middle of the board in such a manner that the principal line coincides with V' V and the horizon line with II H'. The four scales, forming the sides of the square TUR ts' (a little larger than the photograph which falls within 1' URS), can be used to dra.w parallels to the horizon and principal lines, without obscuring the print by too many pencil lines, by placing a ruler on the corresponding graduation marks of two opposite scales. Also for marking the" ground line" for any station by joining the graduations of the Vertical scales representing the heig·ht of the station. At a suitable distance from H, outside of the photograph field, a perPendicular1 J[ L to H B', is erected, on which line are marked, by means of a table of taug·ents, the angles formed with H 1l1 by liuet) drawn from

112

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the left-hand distance point H. This graduation, KL, serves for measuring the horizontal angles or the nltitudes of points selected on the photographs, as will be explained in the following: From V as a center describe a circular arc, P 0 O, with V P 0 =focal length as radius, aud divide this arc into any number of equal parts. 'fhrough the points of division, between P 0 0 aml P 0 H', radials are drawn from Y as center. In order to obtain the elevations of points marked on the photographs the radial distance from the station to the horizontal projection of the point in the picture trace must be known. If the sensitive plate formed
M
D ___

N

I

- - ---

v'

--:

--- -

1

E.

I
I I
H

T

l5

...

6

'°

.. ..

'

JB

to.

15"

\U

1.5

~(.I

..

I
1$

1·

·u

~

I
I

··

P.

"'
·6
1·

K

I

I

u
1.6 ·
~"

·35

R

l
r

I
G.
Q

I_
FIU. !?5.

-

-

-

-

_J
F'
0

a part of a vertical cylinder with radius =focal length, then these distances would all be constant and equal to the focal length of the print. The arc P 0 0 (divided into any number of equal parts) and the line P 0 H' cuts off pieces of the radials drawn from the station V to tbC various horizontal projections of pictured points, which must be added to the focal length V P 0 = V 0 to give the horizontal distance of tll 0 station to the projected point on the photograph. The equidistant lines AB, drawn parallel to the principal line, a.r~ also drawn sufficiently close together and cover a space in width equ~ to the largest radial difference 0 J~ All these 'lines (.AB and A 0

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

113

are used in connection with the scale of degrees and minutes L K; e. i., on a print, T US R (fig. 26), we wish to obtain the elevation o o', the v"ertical and horizontal angles to o having been observed in the field and noted on outline sketch. From H (lig. 25) we draw a line through tliat division mark on KL which corresponds to the vertical angle of c, say 1020. Now the abscissa P 0 c' = x 0 is laid off (on the photograph board) along P 0 H' from P 0 ; the second point of the dividers may fall upon the twentieth radial difference (counting· from P toward c). The length of the difference between the radius of the arc I' 0 0 and the distance V 0 (from the plotted camera station Y to the plotted point c) is llow laid off along P 0 H' from I' 0 , which may fall mid way between the fourth and fifth line (counting from P as zero) of the set AB. Then the distance from the line P 0 H', taken mid way between the fo~1rth and fifth A.Bline to the line Il 10~ 0 (on degree scale]{ L) and measured on the Plotting scale, will be tho difference of elevation cc', which, added to the elevation of the camera horizon, will give the elevation of the point c above the datum plane. T U Sometimes the angle between a point, a, on the Print a1Hl the principal and horizon lines (altitude and azimutlial angles) may be wanted. C' The azimuthal angle P Pao (fig. 27) can uo found directly by joining the Plotted. station J> to the horbmntal projection a., of s· .________-J,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __J the point a'. 'ro find the R S'l · . 1''1e1. 20. 'Ine Ill degrees au<l mrnUtes we transfer the abscissa P a0 of tlie point (Jig-. 27) a' to P 0 V7 (on the photograph board) from P 0 and draw a line from H through this Point on I',, V'. Where this line intersects the scale KL will be the reading indicating the value of the azimuthal angle in degrees and Ininutes. · The altitude of the point a' on the photograph (fig. 27) is represented by the angle a' P a0 , and to find its value we transfer P 0 ££0 the abscissa of a' (fig. 27) to P 0 H' from P on the photograph board; say, equal to Y. With the same pair of dividers we take the radial difference at I: (distance of .Y to the arc I'0 C) aud transfer the same to P 0 II' from t o, and note which of the verticals A B falls upon the second point of ;e dividers. On this vertical we transfer the ordinnte of a'= a' a0 from l" 0 Il'; say, equal to .AZ. If we draw a line through Z from H, this tne Will indicate on the divisions of scale KL the value of the angle Q/ :Pao (fig. 27) in degrees and minutes. The foregoing is a general description of the plotting methods em0 0
0

0

i

0

s. Ex. 19, pt. 2-8

114

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

ployed by the topographers under Dr. W. F. King, boundary commissioner for the southeastern Alaskan survey. There remain, of course, some minor details which serve in a measure to facilitate the work of plotting and whi:ch every draftsman acquires by practical application, and which are not toucheu upon in the preceding pages. The enlargeu prints are made 111)011 positive bromide paper, ·using a good copying lens to secure as much detail as possible. The prints are developed and dried in the usual manner, and classified. The essential requirement for a true copy or correct enlargement is that the sensitized paper be parallel to the negative. Both the printing camera and tlie easel upon which the paper rests are provided with graduations on their slides to facilitate giving the correct distauces both for enlarging and reducing. An inclineu position of the easel and negative is the

p

s

F10.

2i.

essential feature of the Canadian printing apparatm; in order to give the negative the full skylight auu not have a part of the plate illumi· nated by reflected ray.-,i from the earth, thus giving the entire plate ll uniform light during the time of printing.. In France, Germauy, and Italy the tendency has been toward coIU· bining the transit a.nu camera into one mstrmnent, while in Canada these instruments have been kept sepa,rate. The reason, probably, is that in the European countries mentioned, photographic surveys were made ou a large scale a,ud the means for safe transportation were c01n· paratively withiu easy reach, while ill the Canadian surveys the wor1' was done on a small scale anu the instruments had to be carried over rough country, frequently on the human back, thus making it essential to reduce the weight to a minimum (which could be best done by keep· ing the instruments separate) and to make them rigid aud easy of a<J.justment.

U.S. Coast and Gt-ollet:c Su·vt>y Rcoo·t fo· 1893.

Pa;t 11.

No. J.

FRENCH PHOTO-THEODOLITE.

FiG.1.'}
THE SAME WITH CAMERA DETACHED.

REPORT· FOR :1893-PART II.

115

Figures 28 and 29 show the latest model, in its general form, of the Freuch "phototheodolite," which was on exhibition at the World's Columbian Fair, in Chicago. Figure 28 shows the complete phototheodolite, and figure 29 8hows tho theodolite without tho cam1!ra, in which form it; is used for trigonometrical purposes, the triangulation being made before the phototopography is l>egun. This phototheodolite has a "declinatoire" (compass) and a pair of sights, which will enable the observer to direct the optical axis of the camera quickly toward any desired object or poi1{t of the panorama. The "declinatoire" is principitlly used for traverse work, to note the magnetic meridian from time to fim<;'I. This compass and the sights are not visible in the figure; they are on the side opposite to the one with the telescope. The near side of the instrument (fig. 28) shows the telescope, level and vertical circle for making angular measurements, in addition to the previously executed triangulation, in order to determine the position of the camera station (by the three-point, prqblem) with reference to surrounding triangulation 1ioints or for running traveoi.·se Jines between triangulation stations, The horizontal circle is under the camera proper and carries a box level. The optical axis can be elevated or depressed (maintaining a horizontal position) l>y meam1 of a slide or shutter to which the camera lens is attached. Dr. Meydenbaur's camera thoodolite is a camera of constant focal length, constructed in metal throughout, with neither telescope nor ver,tical circle, but it is provided with a horizontal lirnl> and mounted on a tripod . .After the instrument is leveled up, the panorama surrounding the station can be surveyed (photographed) by making six consecutive ~:xposures, revolving the camera 60° in azimuth after each exposure by means of the horizoutal circle, which is graduated to read to. sing"le lllinutes. The lens is a pantoscopic one, made by E. Busch, in Hathenow, Prussia. It commands an angle of about 100°, but by excluding· the external ring of this lens by means of a small stop in the diaphragm, pictures are obtained subtending a horizontal angle of about GGO, thus giving two consecutive plates a common margin of 30 width, horizontally. The horizontal projections of the six picture planes, reprtisenting the Pa~orama surrounding one station, form a regular hexagon, and after 0 ne picture trace has been plotted and oriented on the plan, the remaining five are readily plotted by constructing this hexagon of \\'hich one side is given. To use this instrument it is necessary that the country to be sursuryeyed photo·graphically be well supplied with a generous number of carefully selected triangulation points of a recently made triangulation, a.a it is necessary that the signals shall be still intact and st.anding during the photographic operations. The triangulation must also include

116

U. S. COAST AND GEODE'fIC SURVEY.

the hypsomctrical <leterminatious of all the stations, as no direct meas· urements of vertical angles can be made with this camera theodolite. The elen,tious of all the other points needed for t.he topographic clevelopment of terreue will lrnve to be obtained by constructions from the negatives or plwtographic priuts by mcaus of the elevations of the horizon line, obtaiued from the given elevation of the Htation (tria11gu· lation point) an<l the heig·ht of the instrument above the ground. 'l'he sur·vey will have to be plotted on a large scale and numerous camera stations will have to be occupie1l. The recently made small tr:weling camera theodolite of Dr. Meyden· banr dispenses with plate holders, iuasmuch 11.;s the plates are placed directly against tlw rear frame of the camera by·un ing·euious arrange· ment with which the plates can be exchanged under exclusion of light. One of the more recent pro1luctiomi of photographic fmrveying instruments in Austria is Captain Hiibl'>1 plane table photo~rammcter, made by R Lechner in Vien11a, and 1lescribed in "Lcchner's Mittheil· ungen aus ~em Geuiete tlcr Photographic u11d Kartographie." vVie11, Graben No. 31. . 'l'lw camera proper has also beeu rno1lified like' the latest Meydenbaur camera by discarding the plate holders. Captain Hiihl places the i-;011si· tive plate directly against the camera casing, where it is held in posi· tion by means of springs, thus securing a constant permanent focal length. 'l'hc camera box is cube shaped and has i-;ides of 21 cm lengtll· 'l'ho plates arc .12 by IGc 111 , but the pictures arc only 10 by 14"'". 'l.'he camera aloue weighs 3~ kilogrammes; witl1 knapsack, including eutire outfit for one day's work a111l stout; tri1iod, the weight i::; 112 kilogrammes and the CC\Ht in Vienna is ·.100 fiori1rn. · This instrument is the result of Captain Hiihl's efforts to redncc the weight and cost of the camera theodolite and to simplify the adjust· mcnts and manipulation of the same. For this reason the theodolite has been rcphwecl by ~t plane table and small alida.de. 'fhe nppcr surface (horizontal) of the camera, 21. by !.!1° 111 , serves as plaue table; it is provided with a pivot with which the alidade is cou· nected. By means of special appliances the picture trace, principal line, and point, as well as horizontal directions to known (triangulation) points, for the orientation of the picture trace, are drawn directly 011 the paper, resting 011 the upper horizontal surface of the camera. Each negative can thus be accompanied by a small plane-table s'beet showing a bunch of rays radiating from the station point to a number of known points (triangulation points) in correct relation and positioJl to the picture trace and principal line, besides numerous data whicll can be sketched and inscribed upon the paper. The results obtained with this photographic plane table are easilY transferred to the working sheet containing a plot of the tria.ngulatioll· The adjustments of this instrument are few and simple.

APPENDIX No. 4-1892.

ON PHOTOGRAPHY .AS .APPLIED TO OBTAIN AN INSTANTANEOUS RECORD OF LUNAR DISTANCES ~'OR DETERMINATIONS OF LONGITUDE.

By C. RUNGE. Translated and submitt.ed for publication December 9, 1893, by J. A. ~ .Assistant.

FLEM.KR,

Since Dr. F. Sto'lze's treatise on photographical determination of geo. graphical positions without the use of chrouometers was published, l\fr. C. Runge, in Hanover, Prussia, bas made experimental observations With an ordinary camera, such as travelers and explorers generally carry in their Ol\tflts, to develop a photographic method for obtaining the geo· graphical longitude and latitude of a place, as well as the local time by D?-eans of photography. Photographic determinations of the latitude and the local time of a place, however, do not offer great advantages, compared with the general methods heretofore in use for obtaining these values, as nearly every explorer will carry in his outfit instruments which can readily be Used for this purpose, the ordinary methods for astronomical latitude and time observations being comparatively simple and easily applied. We will, therefore, in the following pages, consider only Mr. Runge's tnethod for determining the geographical longitude photographically. The desirability of developing a method for finding the longitude Without the use of chronometers, which, when the geographical longitude of a place had been determined by means of chronometer readings, could also be used to check the latter, had not only been recognized by l\fr. Runge, but he also felt convinced that if the method should find favor with explorers, the necessity of making astronomical observations-such as would be necessary, for instance, for. longitude detertninations based o.n lunar distances-could be avoided. , .A. full description of Mr. 0. Runge's first application of photography, tnade June 17, 1893, in Hanover, for this purpose, will be found in the Zeitschr, f. Verm., Heft t5, 1893, of which the following is a free translation;
117

118

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The camera, placed upon a window sill and its position secured, as well as possible, against accidents, was directed upon the new moon at 10 p. m. (June 17, 1893) and eight successive short exposures of the same plate were made; at 10\ lOh 2111 , lOh 4 111 , 1011 8111 , 10h 10111 , 101t 12111 , lOh 14"', and at JOh 23m p. m., an ordinary watch being used for timing the latter. The camera, with o~iective closed, was left undisturbed in the same position until the constellation r~eonis appeared in the same part of the firmament where the moon had been photographed. At 10 11 51 111 (by the same watch) the objective of the camera was uncovered and the plate remained exposed, short interruptions excepted, until 12 11 45111· These interruptions, of five seconds' duration each, were effected by means of a dark cloth, 'vith which the oqjective was covered, without having been brought into contact with the same. Twenty such interruptions of the exposure were made in toto, and their times of occurrence were carefully noted by the same watch and recorded. Between lOh 51 111 and 11'1 00 111 two sueh interruptions took place. From 1111 till 12 p. m. interruptions were made every five min· utes, beginning at the full minute and lasti11g five seconds (12 breaks); from 12 p. m. till 12 11 40m the break8 occurred in the same· manner, but at intervals of ten minutes (4 interruptions), and two breaks were made at odd times, oue at llh :37 111 and the other at 1l1' 54 111 · After the plate had been developed the moon's crescent appeared eight times, as was to be expected, in the central portion of the plate. Above and below this row of moon pictures the star traces were plainly visible in the shape of smooth curves of a regular curvature. From the relative positions of these curves and the positions of their beginnings and end points it could readily be conjectured which star of the constellation Leo11is belonged to each curve. The star traces of a, {J, y, o, E, r;, 17, and~ JJeonis, besides some other faint star traces, were plainly distinguishable upon the developed plate. The trace made by o Leonis was the most distinct of all, tllis st'ar having been farther 11orth (in a darker portion of the firmament) than the other bright stars of the constellation. The traces of (J and o Leonis, scrutinized under a microscope, dis· tinctly showed the gaps, corresponding with the recorded interrup· tions, made during the exposure. These breaks were less clearly shown in the other star traces, partly because they appeared less bright, having been nearer the horizon, and partly because their light was dimmed by the illuminated western horizon. The positions of'the two breaks, corresponding with the two inter· rnptions of the exposure, made at random (at 1111 37"' and 11.11 54m) among the regulltr series, formed characteristic pointers toward identifying the .breaks with their corresponding recorded time observations (by the
watch).

REPbRT FOR 1893-PART II.

119

On the lower part of the plate the upper outlines of two nuildings Were shown, one With a lightning rod and the other with a flag pole. In order to ascertain the Greenwich time by means of this plate, Mr. l{unge employed difforent methods of mensuration. The mensuration '"as done with an instrument used heretofore for ma]dng measurements on photographic plates in analytical investigations of spectra (with the spectroscope). Its principal parts are a frame over which a sleigh can be moved horizontally by means of a hor~zontal screw liaving a very fine thread. The plate is placed 111)011 the movable holder (sleigh) and illuminated from below by means of an incli11ed mirror. A microscope with cross Wires is secured to the stationary frame in such n. manner that the plate Can be studied through the same while the plate is passed underneath in a horizontal plnne by turning the screw passing through the plate holder (sleigh). The horizontal linear change in position of the plate when thus moved is measured by the number of turns of the screw. This Screw has two threads per 1 mm length, mul is supplied with a micrometer at one end, divided into 100 parts, and a vemicr. '.rhus, ::r-J 0 mm can be read with the index mark, and by using the vernier 2 1.hrrmm can be llleai:mred. A registering apparntns marks the full tnrns of the screw. With the aid of this micrometer the following· measurements on the Plate were taken: · I. To determine the right ascensions of the pictured crescents, we find and mark on the trace of'~ Ll)onis that point which corresponds with the lnericlian of one of the crescents-for instance, the first one of the eig·ht Shown on the plate-and by means of the gaps shown in this star trace the time of transit (the time as shown by the watch when '~ Leonis had reached that particular spot ou the trace) of 1> Leonis at this marked Point is ascertained. The time which had elapsed from the moment of photogmphing the 1irst position of the moon (10 11 ) until iJ Iieonis had reached the point in <lllestion on its tface gives in watch time the difforence of the hour angles of the moon and '~ Leouis. This civil time interval converted into sidereal time will represent the difference of the moon's and 1> Leonis's right ascensions; and after the value for the right ascension of a Leonis has been taken from the ~~ed star catalogue of the Ephemeris, we will thus have found the l'ight ascension of the moon n.t the time of the first exposure. A-s only short time intervals enter into consideration, the quality of the watch is immaterial. In detail the mensuration was made as follows: By means of the difference between the right ascensions of 1> and {3 Leonis, as taken from the Ephemeris, two points were located on the . corresponding two star traces, situated as nearly as possible upon the 8 1ttne hour circle, which two points were joined by a fine line scratched

120

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

into the film of gelatin on the plate by means of a fine needle and straight edge. The photograph being a true perspective, all meridians are represented by straight lines on the same, and this scratch, if carefully made, should represent a meridian line. If the direction of this scratch does not appear perfectly.correct, its deviation from the true position can be ascertained by measuring the distances from two corresponding breaks in the two star traces (of rJ and /3 Leon is) to the intersectio11s of the scratch with these two curves, and the necessary correction can be applied. After this has been done, the distance between the crescents and the scratch are measured; and as the distance betweeu the breaks-shown in the star traces of o and f3 Leonis-between which the crescents are situated are known, we can compute the time interval correspondiug with a certain length of the moon's circle of declination. If the scratch pa8ses close to the picture of the moon, a small error in the value with which the distance .is to be multiplied in order to obtain the time interal will barely affect the result. .As only the edge of the moon could be ::neasured in our case, a correction for the moon's semidiameter had to be applied in order to obtain the right ascension of the moon's center, which was done by measuring a chord and correspou.di11g height of the crescent's arc. The resulting right ascension is free from atmospheric refraction, as it has been deter· mined from the relative position of tlic moon with reference to the pictured stars on the· plate, which were also snl~j!~cted to the same atmospherical influences (and are likewise affected by refraction). In order to reduce this right ascension to the center of the earth the declination and the local time must be known or will have to be found. 2. JJ.fon.mration of the declination of the lunar pictitrcs.-F'or this pur· pose the plate was placed upon the movable holder in such a manner that the direction of its course under the microscope (when moved in a horizontal plane hy turning the micrometer) was vertical to the star traces. Pointings were now made to as many of the star tra.ces as possible, as well as to the edge of the crescent; for instance, the traces of r;, o, y, /3, and a l~conis were bisected, aud also the edge of the crescent falling between y and /J. If we now write opposite the micrornet-0r values for the bisected star traces the declim1tions of the corresponding stars, we can regard the latter as a linear fn11ction of the micrometer readings. The two unknown values of this linear function are computed by means of the method of least squares, and after substituting the micrometer readings for the edge of the moon we find he11 declination.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

121

The following example will show the degree of precision obtained in this manner:

----i
::\ticromctcr rending.

Declination, tnken from the
Ephemeris.

-

~edinati:,~---i--computcc1·
'I

Diff.

a Leonis. (J Edge of moon. o Lconis.
~

I

----·

I ---·-------

249·0 251s-I 644I"I 75I5"9 9916·7

.0,
' 15 2I 23

,~ ~;-1.~-:- :; L:: ·
IO I2

6
57

38 07

I5 19 21
z3
··---·--

IO 49 6 57

31 53 23 I3

--19 +I5 - -- 6

·---

----·-

We believe that the declination of the moon's edge can be found by this method within a limit of error of 20", and if the star curves are aU close to the luuar picture even a more close value may be obtained. The semidiameter of the moon having been determined. as mentioned above, we can now compute the declination of the moon's center. The declinatio~s haviug yet to he reduced to the center of the earth, we will lleed for this purpose, besi1les the rig·ht ascensions, also the local time, Which is found as follows: 3. Determination of the local time.-We could assume the local time to be known, as the explorer will generally determine the same astrollou1ically, especially if he intends to determine the longitude of the l>lace of observation by means of chronometer readings. He can readily find the local time by observing sun, moon, or star altitudes with a sufiicient degree of accuracy for practical purposes. Wheuever the photographic plate contains the image of a fixed terrestrial point-for instance, tlw lightning rod, gable, or chimney of a distant building, the peak of a distant rnountaiu, etc.-such poiut can be utilized in the same manner as a star. .As mentioned before, the e:Kposed plate contained. a picture of a conspicuous Jightuiug rod. The circle of declination and hour circle of this point were determined iu the same manner as shown for the lunar pictures (by means of civil time as indicated l>y the watch). 'l'he following day (;Juue 18) the elevation of this point (of the lightning rod) was determined from the place occul)ied by the camera 'in the preceding night. From this elevation and the declination we can determine the hour angle, if the geographical latitude be known, and we are thus enabled to compute the difference between the time indicated by the watch and the local time. .After the local time has been found in this manner, the determined Values for the right ascension and declination can be reduced to the ce11ter of the earth, the altitude of the lunar pictures being known if the local time and the declination are given. 4, Jlleasuring a lunar distance.- We measured the distance between the first lunar picture and that break in the stellar curve belonging to O' Leonis which was nearest the crescent without being intersected by the same hour circle.

122

U. S. COAST. AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The angle corresponding to a measured length on the plate can be computed if we know the distance between the traces of two stars. It is true, the plate represents the area of the firmament on a variable scale (it being a perspective representation of the photographed area of the firmament), yet for a small portion in the center of the plate we can assume that there is no distortion, In the present case the distance amounted to only 2~ 0 · A star, the image of which would have appeared at the time of exposure for the first lunar picture on that part of the plate indicated by the break referred to, would have to have had the same declination as o Leonis, and its right ascension would be found from the time which would have elapsed until o Leonis had reached the same place. · Ry means of this imaginary star point we can compute in the same manner as for a trno star its lunar distance for any given Greenwich time, and also from the measured lunar distance, reduced to the center of the earth, we can interpolate the Greenwich time. The following tabulated results were obtained by these three methods:
------,--------------------------lunar picture ccn- ; lers rc<lucccl to
the center of

Menn of the R. A's i of the fiT't three [

I
I

1

M

G

rCCll\\ Jc ·

e~n tim or · h

. e
Loe-al time.

Difference
of time.

the earth.

:------

-1----- ____ _
h.
JI/.

h.

11/,

S.

9

23

40·7

-~- ~(J~j_-~-~-~~-3~9-·1
·-··

h.

11/.

1//,

tl~c eight lunar

Declination of

I
f

I

picture centers

Mean
Greenwich time.

reduced tu the c.:cntcr or the
earth.

I

·-·-----·
0

I I

r

I.ucnl time.

Difference
of time.

II

fi.

m.
54·1 57·1 59·6 1 ·8 4·7 5 ·1 7·8 17·2

h.
9

111.

20

19 33 18 58 18 28 18 I 17 27 17 22 16 50 15 9

8 8 8 9 9 9 9 9

33·4 35·4 37·4 41·4 43·4 45·4 47·4 56·4 Mean

m. 39·3 38·3 37·8 39·6 38·7 40·3 39·6 39·2

39·1(±0·2)
- .·.

·-·-

··-

·-

···-·-·····

·-

Lunar distances

measured and
reduced.

distances
computed.

Lunar

I
I
'

l\lean

lnterpolnted
mean

Greenwich
time.

Greenwich
time.

Local time.

Diff. of time.

0

I

II

0

I

II

2
2

39 38

34 20

h. 111. 8 45

35

19

2

9

o·

"· 8 54'8
111.

h.

111.

m.
38·6

9

33·4

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II:

123

According to these three methods we find tho three ·corresponding dift'erences of time:
111.

39·1 39·1 38·6 Mean 38·93

The true difference of time for the "11mrket tower" ill Ha11over City is, according to Gauss:
111.

38·943

And as the place of olJservation was G50 metres west from this tower, the difference of time for the camera station would be:
38·90

"'·

This close result seems to partake of the nature of a coincidence. Still, we believe that an error of more ·than 0·~ 111 is precluded if the n1easnremeuts on the plate are made as carefully a8 the one just described. In order to obtain an eqnally good result by the ordinary astronomical met.hods, the observations would have to be made within 6 seconds. \.Yo believe, however, that this photographic method can be raised to a still liigher degree of precision without having to add lllany mechanical devices. In this first practical attempt the stellar pictures in reference to the Pictured crescents were not very favorably situated, more favorable Positions being of frequent occurrence. For instance, if we photogmph the moon at the moment when she has the same apparent declination as the star, and after the moon has passed this point allow the star to trace its path (making suitable breaks in the star truce \ly means of short interruptions of the exposure) over the plate until this moon Picture is bisected by the star trace, it will be possible to obtain the :igbt ascension with the same degree of precision with which the breaks 111 the star trace can be measured (bisected with the cross wires in the .lnicroscope). If "·e assume that tho tenth part of such a gap or break ~an be bisected in the microscope (which is femsible), then 11 single readlllg will be correct within 0·5 seconds of time and the right ascension ~C}Ually aa·close; consequently the Greenwich time can be ascertained lU this case within 15 seconds. If we wonder how it is possible to reach such close results with the Cl'Ude means employed, we find that this crudeness is only an apparent ~e. The work bas simply been divided in a happy manner. The entire 0 rk of mensuration has been 8eparated from that part by means of "'hich the observations are gained and recorded. Photography simply l'ecords instantaneously the relative positions of the stars and moon at

124

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

fixed-time intervah;, which positions can afterwards l>e studied and measured at leisure. The described measuring apparatm; takes the place of the theodolite or sextant, with its graduated limb, arc, verniers, and micrometers. 'l'his division. of work is of great valne for geographical exploration parties, as the actual measuring can be done by experts at ·any subsequent time after the plates have been shipped to the mother countiy. In regard t-0 the camera nsed for the foregoing described experimental observations, it may be said that the objective was a so-called antiplanetic group lens, of a focal length of al.lout 24c made by Steinbeil, in l\funicb, Bavaria. 'l'he stop used had a diameter of 17mm. This objective really consists of four lenses-i. c., two cemented pairs-which are placed as closely together as the interposition of the diapluagm (with the 17 10111 stop) will admit of. The peculiarities of tbis lens com· bination have l>een utilized in increasing the depth and the field of the objective without sacrificing uniformity ~f definition aud an even distribution of light. The constants of the camera need not be known, as they do not enter into the work. All we need to know is the geographical latitude of the station and at what time periods (given in civil time) the breaks in the star traces were made and when the lunar pictures were obtained. All remainiug data can be culled from the plate.
111 ,

APPENDIX No. 8-1898.

ON THE MEASUREMENT OF BASE LINES WITH STEEL TAPES AND WITH STEEL AND HHASl::i WIRES.

Hy EDY.

JX1n;~rn.

Translated

!Lil([

submittell for publication by Prof. J.
1893.

HoWAJW

Gomr., Nov.emh1ir :l7,

In the report on a method for measuring geodetic base lines with steel tapes, which was published in Ofversigt af. K. VetemikapsakaemieHs forhandlingar, No. 9, 187tl, only the first attempts at such measuring Were described. Since the:-ie experiments were not sufficiently geuernl to give an accurate and detailed account of the practical application of the method, a11<l as the plaus pursued were not satisfactory in every respect, especially as they could not be carried out under certaiu atmospheric conditions-conditions which may always be expected during any extensive measurement-with any hope of materially dimiuishing the error, I found it necessary within the past years to contiuue my experitne11ts on a larger scale. · In the report which here follows l have, for the sake of continuity, deemed it advisable to repeat in outline the principles of this method. The steel tapes which can be purchased in the stores are of various kinds and grades. Those which are best suited for geodetic measuring, in accordance with the metJ10d hereinafter described, are about 13 11" 11 broad and 20 111 or more long. They are divided iuto ceutimetres, with the first decimetre farther divided into millimetres. If it should be desired to make use of a steel tape in the field, where it is not possible to provide a smooth support, it is necessary to support only the two end points, allowiug the tape to hang freely throughout the rest of its leng·tb. In such a case the exact distance between the two euds can be mathematically determined. For this a tension is needed at both ends, exerted either by means of a spring balance or by weights. ~his use of the tape requires two correctiom1-a negative correction, increasing the length of the tape, which arises from the stretching of ~he tape due to the applied tension, and a pos1t1ve correction, shortenlllg the straight-line distance betweeu the ends, which amounts to the
125

126

U. S. CO.AST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

difference between the length of the curve formed by the freely hanging· tape and its chord. Should it be desired to have as the normal length of the tape--that is, the stmight-li11e di.stance from tho zero mark on one end to the similar mark ou the other-a length exactly equal to the distance between these marks while the tape is lying on a .-;mooth support throughout its e11tire length, it is only necessary that the sum of the two corrections named be equal to zero or that a tension ue found sufficient to give to the hangiug tape its normal length. From this it can be seen that this tension takes the place of the support. It is better to provide the line which is to be measured with tripods than.with stakei-;, since the latter are less stable and not so convenient as the former. If the tripod should be placed on rocks or on ground too hard for the feet to secure a firm hold, the requisite stability can be obtained by placing a stone in a sling attached to the under part of the tripod. In measuring, the tripods are placed so that the distance between the fine needles which are fixed iu their upper surfaces is some centimetres less than the full length of the tape. The zero mark on the rear end of the tape is brought int-0 coincidence with the needle on the rear tripod: The spring balance is attached to the forward end and a tension predetermined 11pon is applied. The reading· on the tape is then made to the tenth of a millimetre by approximation, and recorded. (The forward tripod now becomes the rear one, and the operation just described is repeated.) The length of the line is computed by considering, besides the read· ings just referred to; the followiug corrections: The constant correction t-0 the length of the tape, obtained by measuring with it a line of known length-the comparator; the reduction to the horizontal projection, determined from the difference in the elevation of the tripod heads for each tape length, and the correction for temperature, that of the tape being taken as the temperature of the air. When the measurement is prosecuted in thi8 mal).ner the weather occasionally interferes. The steel tapes, which are usually 13mm in breadth, offer in a length of 20 when turued 1iat side to tho wind, l1 surface of one-fourth square metre, approximately. A strong wind, therefore, causes a waving motion and moves the millimetre scale along" the 11eedle so rapidly as to make a reading inaccurate. Again, it is easy to see that in the sunshine the temperature of the air is not tlte same as that of the tave or even that of the thermometer, whicb makes the tl1ermometric reading very unreliable. For this reason the application of this method of obtaining the temperature of the tape should be made use of only when the sky is clouded and the air. perfectly still or in a gentle wind. To obviate these difficulties was the purpose of the following ex:peri· ments: The effect of the wind is diminished partly by selecting a tape as small iu cross section as possible and partly by increasing the tension·
111 ,

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

127

In the matter of cross section there is a minimum which must not be exceeded in order to avoid an appreciable stretching in applying the tension. Therefore, as the width is diminished the thickness must be increased, which leads to the fact that a circular cross section is the best, and instead of tapes wires should be used. When the tension is increased it is necessary to know the length correction for this increased tension; to find this the comparator is measured with that tension .. Whenever the entire length of the tape is not employed, it is best to determine the tension which will make the correction to the length proportional to the length utilized. In order to be able to safoly determine the temperature under all conditions, there appears to be no better way than to employ two wiresfor example, one of steel and one of brass-whose coefficients of expan. sion are different. If these wires are of the same size and have a similar surface-nickel plated, for instance-and are handled in the same manner, the.re is no apparent reason why, ou the average, they should not have for the entire measurement the same temperature; and this tern· perature can be determined from the differences in the readings of the two wires stretched su~cessively between the same two fixed points. After making these suggestions and before passing on to a descrip· tion of the instruments and a report of the·results, I shall give the development of the requisite formulas. · The following notation is employed: Lo = tbs normal length of the tape or wire, or the length which it indicates when supported and without tension. L =the straight-line distance between the two zero marks when the tape or wire is supported at both ends, lrnngs freely throughout its length, and is subjected to a tension I. U = gravity, force of. ni mass of a unit's length of the tape. w = weight of' a unit's length of' the tape. s = the extension of a unit's length due to a unit tension. c. = correction to the length due to a curvature of the tape. c1 correctiou to the length due to tension. One has then

=

=

W=?ng

. 'l'he curve line which the tape forms when it hangs susp_ended from D. 48, the following· equ~tions: y

its two end points has, according to Sturm's Cours de Mccanique, vol. 2,
x x
(a)

k=----2--

' eli+c- 1

li

= ------2--

x x elc_c-k

(b)

128

U. S. COA8'1' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

(c)

yz

= kZ + l2 T = 1ry

(d)
( e)

in which the y axis is vertical ancl the x axis horizontal, the former passing through the curve at its lowest point and the latter at a distance, k, below it; l the length of the curve reckoned from the point where they axis cuts the same, p the ra<lins of curvaturn, and T the tension exerted in the direction of its length. When the two ends are at the same height the ordinates will be equal, while the abscissa8 will lle cqnal but with opposite signs. If L be the length of the tape and a the straight-line distance between tlie end points, then a <i

L
or expressed in a series
D

=

2 k, - _______ 2___ _

e~-lc_e

2-k

= 2 le

Ctk +1.-t.-3 (t-;~)3+ 1~~-:-;I~C5 (}\,Y ----.-)
.
(/)

and

In the experiment!'! it was found that all the terms after the first would fall between 0·0001 00 m and 0·001 111111 ; hence it can be assumed that

From (e) or

1

T = wy --

'l''lc le= wy

From a series of tabulated valnes it was fouml that ~ changed value . y with le, but only to the extent of 2--i00 of the· whole, or that the factor

y

le _ = 1.

Th"is gives: .

and or or placing and

o= a - L

T w a3w2 L - a= 24 'Liz a3w2

k=-

=-

u·1·2

Lo= a 3 w=mg

REPORT FOR 1893-PART Ir.

129

we have Likewise

·C- -

-24-112
0

L0Jrn2_q2

c1

= sL

T
_
0

from which we have _ _ L 3 m2 qi L = L., - -~,_f .'/'~-

+sL

1 - - ___ _

,

(1)

For the force '.C, (the 11or111al tension), which makes L equal to L 0 , it would give 'l'o = 3J£021n2 g~ = yz - - - - - (2) 24s :.!4s -

:1J

in which V (or w /, is the weight of the entire tape. If it should be necessary to employ a fractional part-say~ the nth :Part of the tape-and we wished to know the correspondiug part of ~he normal length, we would have to iutrodnce a tension, T 01 , which is obtained by :,;ubstituti11g in (:.!) n L., for L 0 , from which we obtain
0 )

T"'

--Z--J 2-2-i = 3 ·n 111 fl = 7' --- '" 2411 - -

J

0

:1

Jn · · - -· ·
2

(3)

If, 011 the other hand, a greater tension, T, is made use of. in order to diminish the effect of the wind, the distance hetweeu the zero points will be greater tha11 L 0 · We therefore place

L
Ot·

= L., (1 +f)

the factor From (1) we obtain J:;:::::; - "!!rT2

.

L,,2 m2 {12
il4_,

+ sl = -

''

1,.,2 wz
:.!-! TZ

+ sl

''
(4)

./ . = -

v2 r2 + s 1' - - - - - --

When only a part of the ta.pc is utilized, the 1·orresponding or nth :Part off is obtained by first finding from T the value 1''. From (1) '''e-have · · n.:1 L ..3 mz '12 _ ,, nL (1 +f ) = nL -.--· - + nsL 1 0 " 24 1''2 0 ' f rolll which - - _nz yz sl''
.('..!4 1'' 2

+

"'hich combined with (-!) gives
1''3 or

( vz ) + \ 24 s 1·2 - T
'J'

T' = 2~f"s nz,
(5)

2

y2

T'

=

y2 - - 2·4 iT2

+ 248 n ' r

y2 z 1

'Where the value of 'J'' is giveu by approximation.
S. Ex. 19, 11t. 2 - 9

130

l'. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

If JI is the sag of t.l1e tape at its lowest point, or the height of the t;egment of the circle formed by the tape, we have

JI

11' Lo V = kL -;p- = k -1,2
0

For three steel tapes c= A aud B (both 20 long, the latter nickel i>lated) and C, nearly 30 111 i11 length, hut 1rned as a 20 111 tape, I found, using the metre as a; unit of lt~ngth a.11(1 a kilogramme as the unit of weight:
111

A',
B, C,

10

= !Hl1977k, x = 0·0000214-::l.:: 6, xw = ()-()00000424± 11 O·OIS!li~' 0·0000226± !i, 0·00000042!U: l'.! IHl1G53. 0·00002:34::1_, 5, 0~000000387:1.- 8

'fhe determi11atio11 ot' .~ a111l 8ir were rna<le while sn~jecting the tapes when horizontal to a tcnRion by 111ea11s of a dynamometer;· also when vertical hy Rnspe11di11g them from a liigh tower and attaching weights to the lower ends. The mean temperature \nts 6° (C.). From these values, hy meam; of (2 ,, we oht:tin
fo1· A, B,
7'0

= t'Vi2k
<l-43 5·80.

c,

For the elnei<lation of tlte formulas given above, the following table is given for .il, which was u:'lcd in the experimental determinations of length:

1--------i-----:1l
'1

-----,~----I'=

11L

/ --- ---. 1-- ----- _1:=0'00014~ 1:=0~000293I I ;..,
1

I /=o
/

1;,.Zt,":72'

!-----! ' 10· · 15·
I'=

!

o·oo

";;
I

0·05
O'IO

0·15 0·20 0·25 0·30 0·35 0·40 0·45 0·50 0·55 0·60 0·65 0·70 0·75
o·So

2 3 4 5
6

I

'

7 8 9 10
II

I
J
J

0·85 0·90 0·95 I ·oo
;

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

.

0·91 1·45 1 ·88 2·30 2·67 3·01 3·34 3·65 3·95 4·24 4 ·51 4·78 5 ·05 5 ·30 5·55 5·79 6·03 6·27 6·50

o~~

6·98 7·02 7'!0 7·20 7·32 7·45 7·60 7·77 7·94 8·11 8·30 8·48, 8·67 8·86 9·05 9·24 9·43 9·62 9·81
IO'OO

6~~6

6·p

13·65 13·65 13·67 1y69 13 ·71 13·75 13·79 13·84 13·90 13·96 14·03 14·11 14·19 14·28 14·37 14 ·47 14·57 14·67 14·78 14·89 15·00

------- --·----------··- - - . If the lm1gth f, 0 is known when the tension T 0 was used, it is possible

by mean!:! of the formula already given to deterrniu6 the length under

REPORT FOR

I893~PART

II.

t31

a teusion, T, introducing for that purpose the factor ,1: However, it is preferable to ascertain from the comparator this length with the appli· cation of the new tension. The disturbing influence of the wind, as has been :mid, chiefly shows itself in adding- to the difficulty of reading tho scale on -the tape. If this interference of the wind is regarded as manifesting· itself in a constant thrust sidewise, or a latPral curvi11g of the tape, it is possible by llleans of equatio11 (1) to determine the length, introduciugin the place of g a factor represeuting tho strength of the wind. From this it will be seen that the distortion iu quc:-;tion is proportional to tho square of the force of the wind and inversely proportional to the square of the te11sio11. Bnt the force of the wi11 d is proportional to the exposed surface of the tape, from which it is apparent that to avoid these obstacles the use of wires is well-nigh imperative. In case the measurement takes place nuder a differeut latitude or at a greater elevation than that of the comparator, it is necessary, in order to be able to compute the effect of gravity npon the results of the measuring, to take into co11sideration two disti11ct cases: 1. When the tension is effocteil by means of a spring balance. 2. When the tension is effected by nrnaus of weights. In the first institnce the tension is unchang·e<l, although the weight of the entire tape or wire is different at the two places. If the length of the wire was found from the comparator to be L under a tension of T, and at the base line the same tension was applied, then the straightline distance between the .r.ero marks. D, can be obtained from the equation D - L = X_,<>:1 m~ rf ( 1- !( )
24

r2 \
J

flt.

in which !I arnl !I' represent the gravity at the comparator and the base line, 1:espectively. This eqnation can also be written
I_,.. :1 .1,i - L= __
~4

v2
']_'

x

(+ fl '(
!12

·'

f' -

, v')
(6)

or with sullicie11t approximation
/)-]_,= 1:-1~;.~,:,
.... .L

(''~!!~ !I ,

)- .....

In the second case, where tl1e tension is e~erted by means of weights, their tensive force, as well as the weight of the wire or tape, will vary. ~f llI represent the mass of the object used to produce the tension, then Its weight (taking the place of '/.' in formula (1) ) at the two placos 'Would be M [! and J1f ri; this would give
D-L= -sL,)l!J

(_1-~).
(7)

or
. ..I

1 1- - L.J-

-t

8lio 1' g-rt._ . U ......... .

For the numerical results, see pages 1:33-134.

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC

SURV1'~Y.

DESCltIPTION OF THE INSTRUMENTS.

In the m.easurements, wires were chiefly made use of, and steel tapes employed only when the distance between two tripods happened to be less th.an the length of a wire. In such cases it was uecessary to use a tape, since it was not possible to graduate a wire throughout its entire Ieng-th. As has already been remarked; wires were used in pairs-one of steel and one of brass. Piano wire was found to be the best si;1,e for the steel. The brass wire was repeatedly pulled through a draw plate so as to give to it its greatest possible ductility. In selecting a w'ire oue must see to it tha£ there are no longitudinal cracks in it, a fault which may be ·found by cold hammering even when invisible to the naked eye. When it becomes necessary to roll up the wires, it is advisable to give to the rings the size which, if left to themselves, they would naturally take, so that they may not suffer a permanent change in length .through bending. The winding and unwinding must be done with the greatest care, and every possible precaution taken that no kinks are formed. Should any occur, it will be necessary to redetermine its length before continuing the measurement. It may be remarked that whenever any slight unevenness occurs on the wire the error in length resulting therefrom is always the same under equal tension. The dauger, therefore, arising from such misfortune is, as experience shows, considerably less than 011e would be inclined to' imagine. The wires arc provided at both their ends with scales 1 decimetre in length, divided into millimetres. These, marked s in figure 2, are attached longitudinally to brass tubes. The free end of the twisted wire is inserted into the outer terminals of this tube and firmly soldered thereto. 'ro prev.e11t the wire from twisting when in use, n. turn buckle, r, is inserted, which also makes it possible to bring the scale into the most favorable position with respect to the needle in the top of the tripod for reading. Of the ten wires made by the meclmnician, Fr .·T. Berg, of Stockholm, eight have been repeatedly inYes'tigated on the comparator, which will be described later on. All these wires have a length of 25 111 · This length was made necessary by the desire to employ each wire as oftell as possible on the 100111 comparator. Otherwise, wires of 30m or more would have been used. The pair A B was utilized Hince l\larch, 1882, C]) since April, E JJ' since September, and Jt N since April, 1883. 'rlie reason why I eJll· ployed so many wires was to determine from experience what diameter is the best, and also to confirm or disprove the oft-expressed fear of' a continuous change in the length of tapes or wires under use. The following wires were nickel plated: For A (steel) and B (brass) before platin~ the weights were found to be
..tl
1r

= 0·01459k
0·01624

B

..,:
z
c

[ I
r
I

.,

',I \
,
I

E
·~

"' '"
"'
J:::

.,.. .....
~

....:

>:.;

-~

l
~\Q

~

"

....

.3'>

~"'

J

=

a:
:;:
~

..

'l.

.2
0

a::

~
~

>.

Ji
u

~

~

.,, c
c
~

~

~
u
V1

::i

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

133

.After plating
A B
w

= 0·01469k
0·01629 ·

Likewise it was foum~ that under tension, with a temperature of +io (Celsius), the following wires gave:
A . ... , s = 0·00002790, B . ... , 0·00005769,
.~w

= 0·000000411 0·000000940

Since the wires are always employed throughout their entire length, which is not the case with tapes, it is of slight importance whether these quantities are known, even if approximate values are at times needed. A knowledge of such values can be obtaiued with sufficient accuracy if it is 1mpposed that for the same metal 'IV is proportional to the surface of a transverse section or to the square of the diameter (a d2, in which a represents a constant and d the diameter); also, thats w is a constant

and.~ inversely proportional to the square of the diameter, or equal to %For A, d = 1 ·53 111111 , and for B, d = 1 ·57m 111 · metres, we would have: · for steel, for brass,
If a. be expressed iu milli-

a= 0·006275k; w = ad2 . ....... (log., 7·7976]
b = 0·0000655"'; s = ~ ........ [log., ;)·8162] a= 0.006609k ................ [log., 7·8201] b = 0·0001422"' .·........···.. [log., 6·1;)29]

From these two values for a the specific gravity was found to be for steel, 7·99, and for brass, 8·41. After having determined the diameters of the other wires, the remaining quantities were found to have the following approximate Values:
Wire. !
-- -· .. ·---- -----.
/'

------------7~

!

·,--------

"

I
7V

I

i ·-- -

s

sLo
...

---- ---- -

-- -·--· - - - -

·---- - · - - · k. 10 10 IO 10 10 10 15 15

'

T

/>

Steel. llrnss. Brass. Steel. Steel. Brass. Steel. Brass.
~If for

A B

D E F ·111 N

c

mm. I k. 1·53 0·01469 I ·57 o·cr629 1 ·5 2 0·015 0 1 ·51 ! 0·0143 2·04 0·0270 2·02 0·0270 2·66 0·0444 2·66 0·0468

I 0·00002799
0·00005769 0·0000616 0:0000287 0·0000157 0·0000349 0·0000091 0·0000201

I

k. k. 5·85 0·000700 0·367 0·001442 0·407 4·92 0·00154 I 0·38 4·6 0·00072 0·36 S'7 10·4 0·00039 0·65 8·2 0·00087 . 0·67 0·00023 11 ·1 I 17·7 1 ·17 14·2· o·o;ooso

I

I 0·11
111.

I

0·13 0·12 0·11 0·20 0'21 0·23 0·24

! ' any reason 10, and likewise V, suffered any change-for example, through the Wear of the plating 01· removal of the 11latmg-o took 011 a new value, which was determined from Lo F . dc=---d r 12 T· A.leo B would change, giving

d o,

= f L., T dB.

From these equations it can- be seen how small the dreaded changes from these ·ources are.

134

U. S. COAST , ___ D GEODETIC SURVEY.

We rea<lily obtaiu from (2)

T·o =tl2
arnl Tu=10

JI.

·-2

2
· · · ·· ·

' 0 "' 24b
0 .

(8)

'\

3/..":LT
~4a1J

(!I)

With a wire it is easy to obtain <l by measuring, and in a tape 11· can be fouIHl by weighing; therefore the forruulaH just given can serve in deter111i11ing an approximate value for J',,. 'fhe values given in the eighth column of the above' table were o!)tained in this way. 'l'he knowl· edge of T 0 is of no direct value, yet for the Rake of comparing valnes of it with tbe arbitrarily taken values of T, as i-;hown in column !l, they are here given. If it is desired to obtain T., more easily, it, can be doue, from formulas (8) aud (9), expressing Tu and. w i11 kilogrammes, nnd din milliiuetres. Steel, L = 20111 , T.. = !!-16 d~ = 344 ·11· Brass, T., = 1 ·72 r/2 = 21.il 11· Steel, L = 2:1 111 , Tu= 2·.'JO d2 = :m9 w Brass, T = 2·00 rl2 = a03 w
0

If we take the values given in the above table and im;ert them in formulas (G) and (7), we will obtain for the iutlnt·1we of the varyiug fo1·ce of gravity the followi11g, in millimetres:
1. 1<·nBiu11 tt·ith HJlriny balance.

A
+~·8

B +.':Vi)

c
+3·0
(]

])

+!Vi

E + 8·8

.P +!H,

M
+11·4

N +12·7

2. Ttm·ion fl'Oln ·1f't·iyhtH.

A -7·0

B -14·4

D

R
-:M)

F

Jll

-Hi·4

-

7·~

-8·7

-3·5
fJ -

N - 7·.'J
!I

These values have not been multiplie<l by the factor·

q' · ; bnt as

this factor 11ever exceeds 0·005~, it woul<l give a correction of oulY
lHJU!i 111111 for N and 0-1180 for C. 'l'he wires A Band <JD were found to be easily handled, while more t1"011ble was experienced with M N. The latter were given a greater

thick11es;1 that they might serve as standanls for the others, it being accepted that they would b~ less sub.1ec·t to change than the lighter wires. ·For the corrections to reduce a ~5 111 wire to the.horizontal pr~jection, the followi11g- table was computed from the fol'Innla Ji2 ft4 hC. (10) k = 2L + SDi + 1<fU ..... .
i11 which le is the correction, always pc;s1tive; L the length of the ~ire, and h the difference in elevation of the two tripod heads:

REPORT FOR 1893-PARi' II.
Correction for 1·educlio11 to a lto1·izontal p1·ojecf.io11.

135

--------·--··---·
,, k

-·-----!- "
Ill.

I

--· ·--·--

k

,,
1·26 1 ·27 1 ·28 1·29 1·30 1 ·31 1 ·32 1 ·33 1 ·34 1 ·35 1·36 I ·37 1·38 1 ·39 1·40 1 ·41 1·42 1 ·43 1·44 1·45 1·46 1 ·47 1 ·48 I '49 1 ·50 I ·51 1 ·52 1 ·53 1·54 1 ·55 1·56 1 ·57 1 ·58 I '59 1 ·60 1·61 1·62 1·63 1 ·64 1·65 1·66 I ·67 1 ·68 1 ·69 1 ·70 171 I ·72 1 ·73 1 ·74 1'75 1 ·76 1·77 I ·78 1'79 1·80 1 ·81 1·82 1 ·83 I ·84 1·85

k

,,
Ill.

!.·

o·oo 0·04 0·05 0·08 0·09 0'11 0'12 0·13 0·14 0·15 0·16 0·17 0·18 0·19 0·20 0·21 0'22 0·23 0·24 0·25 0·26 0·27 0·28 0·29 0·30 0·31 0·32 0·33 0·34 o·35 0·36 0·37 0·38 o·39 0·40 0·41 0·42 0·43 0·44 0·45 0·46 0·47 0·48 0·49 0·50 0·51 0·52 o·53 0·54 0·55 .0·56 o·57 0·58 o·6o .0·61 0·62 0·63 0·64 0·65

"'"'· o·o

o·59

'"· 0·66 o·o 0·67 0·68 0·1 O'I 0·69 0·2 0·70 0·2 0·71 0·72 0·3 0·3 0·73 0·3 0·74 0·4 0·75 0·76 0·5 0·5 0·77 o·6 0·78 0·7 0·79 o·8 0·80 0·81 0·9 l '0 0·82 I' I 0·83 1 ·2 0·84 I '3 ' 0·85 1·4 I 0·86 0·87 I '5 1·6 0·88 0·89 I '7 1 ·8 0·90 0·91 1 ·9 2·0 0·92 2'2 0·93 2·3 0·94 2·5 o·95 2·6 0·96 2·7 o·97 2·9 0·98 3·0 o·99 1·00 3·2 1 ·01 3·4 I '02 3'5 1 ·03 3"7 1·04 3·9 1 ·05 4·1 1·06 4·2 1 ·07 4·4 1 ·08 4·6 4·8 1 ·09 I '10 5·0 I 'II 5·2 1 ·12 5·4 5·6 I' 13 1 ·14 5·8 6·1 1 ·15 1 ·16 6·3 1 ·17 6·5 1·18 6·7 1 ·19 7·0 I '20 7·2 1 ·21 7·4 1·22 7'7 1 ·23 7·9 8·2 1 ·24 8·5 I '25

111111.

8·7 9·0 9·2 9·5 9·8 10·1 10·4 107 11·0 11 ·3 11 ·6 11·9 12·2 12·5 12·8 13·1 13·5 13·8 14·1 14·5 14·8 15·1 15 ·5 15·8 16·2 16·6 16·9 17'3 17 '7 18·1 18·4 18·8 19·2 19:6 20·0 20·4 20·8 21 ·2 21 ·6 22'1 22·5 22·9 23·3 23·8 24·2 24·7 25·1 2 5'5 26·0' 26·5
26:9

'"·

1'1111 ·.

1JllJI.

27·4 27·9 28·3 28·8 29·3 29·8 3o·3 30·8 31·3

31 ·8 32·3 32·8 33·3 33·8 34·3 34·9 35·4 36·0 36·S 37·0 37·6 38·1 38·7 39·2 39·8 40·4 40·9 41 ·5 42·1 42·7 43·3 43·8 44'4 45·0 45·6 46·3 46·9 47·5 48·1 48·7 49'3 50·0 50·6 51 ·3 51 ·9 52·5 53·.z 53·8 54·5 55·2 55·8 56·5 57·2 57·9 58·6 59·2 59·9 6o·6 6!·3 62·0 62·7 6y4 64·2 64·9 65·6 66·3 67·1 67·8 68·5

1·86 1 ·87 1 ·88 1·89 1·90 1 ·91 1·92 1 ·93 1·94 1 ·95 1·96. J ·97 1·98 1·99 2·00 2'01 2·02 2·03 2·04 2·05 2·06 2·07 2·08 2·09
2·10

2·11 2·12 2·13 2·14 2·15 2·16 2·17 2·18 2·19 2·20 2·21
2·22

2·23 2·24 2·25
2·26

2·27 2·28 2·29
2·30

2·31 2·32 2·33 2·34 2·35 2·36 2·37 2·38 2 '39 2·40 2·41 2·42 2·43 2·44 2·45

69·3 70·0 70·8 71 ·5 72 '3 73·1 73·8 74·6 75·4 76·2 76·9 77·7 78·5 79·3 80·1 80·9 81'7 82·6 83·4 84·2 85·0 86·7 87·5 88·4 89·2 90·0 90·9 91·8 92·6 93·5 94'4 95·2 96·1 97·0 97·9 98·8 99·7 100·6 101 ·5 102·4 103·3 103·3 104·2 105·1 106·0 106·9. 107·9 108·8 109·8 I 10·7 111 ·6 u2·6 li3'5 114·5 II5'5 1I6·4 117·4 118·4 II9'4 120·3

136

u.

~.

CO.A.ST AND· GEODETIC SURVEY.

Correction for reduction to a horizontal p1"0jectio11-Contin11ed.

"
111.

k

-----·---.
mm.
121 ·3
122·3

,,

k

I

,,
m. 2·62 2·63 2·64 2·65 2·66 2·67 2·68 2·69

.(·

i 1-·-·
11l.

,,

k

2·46 2·47 2·48 2·49 2·50 2·51 2·52 2 ·53

123·3 124·3 125·3 126·3 127·3 128·3
-·

m. 2·54 2·55 2·56 2·57 2·58 2·59 2·60 2·61

111111.

111111.

m111.

129·4 130·4 131 ·4 132·4 133·5 134·4 135 ·6 136·5

137·7 138·6 139·8 140·8 141 ·9 143·0 144·1 145·1

I

i

270. 2·71 272 273 2·74 2·75 276

146·2 147·3 148·4 149·5 150·6 151 ·7 152·8

--- - - ·-----·--·-

-----·-·----------·

The table extends only to a difference of 2·7(im in the height of the two tdpr-ds, becam·e {t greater inclination than t.his-1 m 9-should be avoided. In such extreme cases an error in elevation of 1111111 would prociuce an error ofO·l"1111 in the length. · From equation (10) we obtain by differentiating
Jt2 dlc=- 2 L 2 dL ..... .

(11)

from which it appears that when L iR 11ot exactly 25m, but, as is usuallY the case, varies a few centimetres, owing to the scale readings, tbe corrections taken from the table will not be correct. If h=3m aud d L= +uom111 , then the error referred to wonl<l amount to -0·:36 111111 · To compute 7.: in those instances where L iR not quite 25m, as in tJ1e use of parts of a steel tape, one can proceed as follow:-;: Place in equation (10) a for all the terms of the second mernuer except the first, that is

then

(12)
If h and L are expressed iu metres and le in millimetres, then

Jt2 k= :£ x500m·n+a ..... .

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

137

from which it is easy to compute k by takiug a from the following table:
L(m.)
t1

I
i

0·05rnm

0·15mm

o·25n1m

0·35mm

0·45mm

I
/1
Ill.

111.

Ill.

/JI,

m.

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 IO 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 2l> 27 28 29 30

0·14 0·24 0·32 0·40 0·47 0·54 0·61 0·67 0·73 0·79 0·85 0·91 0·97 I '02 1·08 1 ·13 1 ·18 1 ·24 1·29 1 ·34 1.39 1 ·44 1·48 1 ·53 1·58 1 ·63 1 ·67' 1·72 1 ·77 1.81

0·19
0·31

0·42 o·53 0·62 0·71 0·80 0·88 o·97 1 ·05 I '12 1'20 1 ·27 I '35 I '42 1·49 1 ·56 1·62 1·69 176 1 ·82 1 ·89 1 ·95 2·02 2·08 2·14 2'20 2·26 2·32 2·38

0·81 0·9I
l'OO

I ·10 1 ·19 1 ·28 1·36 1·45 1 '53 1 ·61 1 ·69 1 ·77 I ·85 1 ·92 2'00 2·07 . 2·15 2·22 2·29 2·36 2·43 2·50 2·57 2·64 271

1 ·19 1 ·29 1 ·39 1·48 1 ·57 1·66 I '75 1·84 1 ·92 2·01 2·09 2·17 2·25 2·33 2·41 2·49 2·57 2·65 2·72 2·80 2·87 2·95

1 ·67 1·77 1 ·86 1 ·96 2·05 2·14 2·23 2·31 2·40 2·48 2·57 2·65 2·73 2·82 2·90 2·98 3·06 3·14

.If f represent the error in the leveling rod, then for a difference of elevatfon h we must write h (1 +/); therefore from (10) we will have for the reductiou to the horizon
1 I h2 1 · ~ h4 1 ')4 ,, =:!.I) +.tl +sr,:·( +J + ..... .

or with sufficient approximation
lc 1 =k (1+2/)

or

.:Ek 1 =(1+~l)2'k .....

.

(13)

Both ends of the wires a.re provided with balances. The one at the end where the Reale on the wire is read is to Lring about the desired tension, while the other is to hold the counter action at the same tension and to avoid as far as possible u.ny drag on the tripod which carries the mark indicating tb'e terminus of the preceding wire. For the latter an ordinary spring balance such as is found iu the stores will

i38

U. S. COAST AND G~ODETIC SURVEY.

am1wer, but for the former purpose a more carefully constructed bal· ance will be required. From this it will be seen that in measuring· in the field two spring bala11ces itre needed-a smaller and a larger oue. These balances are employed to measure the horizontal tension and not to weigh anything in a vertical position, as is supposed to be the case when the graduation is made. '1'hercfore it is necessary to take into consideration the difference in tbe readings in these two cases for actual tensio11. Tbis difference can be obtained by adding· to half of the weight of the spring the weight of those parts-b and c-which are attacbed to the lower end of the spiral spring. It is easy to find that if p represents the entire weight of the dynamometer, y tue difference just mentioned, the correction to the horizontal reading for 0 k, tue reading on the balance when it hangs vertical and free, and a' the reading when the balance is inverted and suspended by its owu book, then

x

a

3~=

and

Y= P_=-i~~-<:' ..... .
Old ha1ance.

p-a'-a)
.. ,, -

(14)

By way of illustration, the folJowing quantities are added:

I .

balance.

The difference between the readings of the balance when horizontal and when vertical, The diameter of the steel wire which formed the spring, The outer diameter of the spring, The inner diameter of the spring, The mean radius of the spring= R ·Extension of spring for I k = f The number of coils in the spring= h

k.
0·115
lltlJI.

-k.
0·186 111111. 2·62 26·0 20·8

New

2·25

20·5
16·0

9·1 8·34
42

11·4

We will have
f=k d4 ..... .
]{lh

-39·5

·10·14

(14a)

where k = 0·0073 for steel. '1.'he scales on both balances were divided into tenths of a kilog-rum1ne, making it possible to read to lmudredths by approximation. If the same balances are used i11 meusuring that were employed on the comparator, it is not 11ecessa1·y to determine these corrections; bnt .if dift'erent·balauces are made use of, it will be absolutely necessary to investigate each balance that is employed. For this reason it is deemed well to give the correction for the two balances mentioned. I1:1.each case the vertical weighing is given with proper correction to make it the equivalent of." the horizontal tension.

li~i>OR'i' FOR

1893-i>ART Ii.

7'he olcl balance.
[ 1883, Apr. 24.] Temp.=+13° Weight. Corr. Temp.=+6°· Weight. Corr. [1884, Jan. 30.] Temp.=+··· Weight. Corr. [1884,' Feb. 3:] Temp.=+26° Weight. Corr.

ok
10 5

-0·14k --0·14 -0·20

ok
9 10
IQ

9 5

-0·13k --0·18 --0·11 --0·10 .. -0·19 -0·19

ok
2

6
9
II

4

-0·115k -0·14 -0·17 ·-0'21 --0·17 ·-0'10

ok
2

6 9
II

4

-0·135k --0·195 -0·245 --0·30 -0·27 -0·21

The new balance.
[1883, Apr. 24.] Tcmp.=+13° Weight. Corr. Temp.=+6° Weight. Corr. [1884, Jan. 30.] Temp.=+2° Wei!!' ht. Corr. l1884, Feb. 3.] Temp.=+·6° Weight. Corr.

ok
0 5 10 14 14 13 13 14 9 IO 0 0

-0·18k -0·18 · -c·18 ---0·18 -0·14 -0·14 -0·17 -0·16 -0·13 -0·18 -0·17 -0·18 -0·19

ok
0 10 13 14 14 14 13 0 9
IO

5

-0·18k -0·18 -0·14 --0·13 -0·11 -0·11 -0·11 -0·14 -0·18 -0·16 --0·17 -0·17

ok -0·19k
2 4 7 9 11 13 15 -0·19 -0·17 --0·15 -0·12 ---0·13 --0·12 -0·09

ok -0·205k
2 4 6 9 II 13 15 -0·20 -0'21 -0·205 -0·215 -0'20 -0·19 -0·18

For both instruments the· two last determinations are the mean of two Heries of observations. Since the correct.ion k cau be expressed by the equation
lc=a~+ my,

iu which m is the weight suspended and x and y are constants, we have, after applyiug- the corrections just giv~n for reduction to horizontal readings, according to the method of least squares, the following equations:
1"01·

the old balance.

1884, Jan. 30, Temp.=+ ~o, k=-0·034-0·0003m. 188?, Apr. 24, " =+ (io, 7c=-0·031+0·000lim. " " " =+13o, k=-0·036-(MlOOlim.. 1884, Feh. 3, " =+:wo, k=-0·064-0·008;1m:
For tlto 111no ba/1111cc.

1884, Jan. 30, Temp.=+ 20, 7c=-O·Oll+O·OOG3m. 1883, Apr. 24, " =+ c;o, k=-0·000+0·004lim. " " '' =+13o, 7c=-0·001+0·0025m. 1884, Feb. 3, " =+260, k=-0·029+0·0013m.

If x cha11ges with the temperature, it is evident that the variatiQn is e:x.tremely slight; couse~uently it is reg·arded as practically constant.

140

U S. COAST

A~D

GEODETIC SURVEY.

However, the variation in y can not be made a constant function of temperature; but; it is assumed that it may be expressed_ by the relation

y=u+vt,
in which t is the temperature and 1t and v are constants. In this manner it is found that for the old balance

y = + 0·0021-0·000365t,
~ud

k=-0-ll41 +(<M){)21-0·000365t)m;

and for the new balance and
y = + 0·0060-0o(l00197 t, lc=-0·0<>9+ (1Ml060-0·0001!l7t)m.

ThP- temperature correction, which for the two instruments is almost the same, can not be regarded as devoid of real significance. From what has just been given, the following table of corrections has been computed:

.;he
Temp.

:;ii ~al- I . ;he .nc~·-1;:;:~::7 ___
·1-.

nncc tension,.-----·-· - .-- - - - - - iok. I Tension iok. : Tension 15.{.·.

I

---·

'

-10°

-+ 0·02k
o·oo
-0·02 -0·04 -0·06 --0·07 -0·09 -0'11 -0·13

+0·07k
+0·06 +0·05 +0·04 +0·03 +0·02 +0·01

+0·11k
+0·10 +0·08 +0·07 +0·05 +0·04 +0·02 +0·01 -0·01

·- 5"
QO

50
100

150
20°

250
300
·-·

o·oo
-0·01

--····----------·----

These corrections must be applied with their proper signs to the read· ings of the balance in order to have the correct tension. The correction for the Jen·gth of the· wire depending upon an error in tension can be found by differentiating (1), which gives
(15)

or if

T= T"

d'l'=

dL

·>fl 1 .Jo-·····

., .

(15a)

The equation (15) gives for a positive error of llc in the balance the following positive corrections in the length of the wires in millimetres for the wire the correction
A ·B 1·0 1·8 0 D 1·8 1·0 E 1·3

F 11! 1·8 . l·O

N
1·3

REPORT }'OR 1893-PART II.

141

In order to secure reliable readings on the wire scale it is necessary

to see to it that the friction on the interior of the balance is a minimum
and that the observer is skilled in work of this character.
'.l'HE UOMP.A.R.A.'..l'OR.

In February, 1882, the earth not being in a frozen co11dition, two stones were set in the 8idewalk extending· along the Technology street, each of which weiglled about 2,UOO kilogrammes. Into the upper surface of each stone was inserted a brnss rod 1 decimetre in lengtll, and in the free ends of these rods fine holes were drilled, which marked" the ends of the line. The line was intended to be exactly 100111 long as indicated by an old-standarded steel tape. The stones rested upon Well-packed beds of graYel about 0·5m below ground and extended 0·4 111
~ff.

.

The line was measured three times in April, 188:.?, and twice in November with the base apparatus belonging to the Hoyal Academy or Sciences. Since the base bars are two toises long, 2!i lengths give 101·35111 · The excess, 1·35m, is such a large fractional part of the whole that it must be laid off with great care. For this purpose a 2111 bar of Bessemer steel was employed which had been tested both for length aud graduation aud compared with the standard by the Bureau of Weights and Measures. At the time of the first measurement no comparison of the base bars With the standard was made, as I considered that no siguificunt change had taken place sin~e the last comparison; at least no change of Aufii. cient importance to affect my results. However, it can be seen from What follows that this hypothesis was unjustifiable. A, B, C, ]) are the lengths of the four bars of the base apparatus aud N that of the l:!tandard, all at a temperature of 13° R, or 16°·25 Celsius. The quantities a.re expressed in millimetres:
-·-----.----------,-------- -·-- . ----------!
I

1878 Oct 10 in 1882 innutumn, St~ckh~h.;, adaedcrcn.

1------- 1-. Xov. 9. '

I

1883, in Stockholm.

1

- ·---No\', 15.

----1

1
1

--------- - - - - - - 1 - - - - - · -------- --A-N B-N C-N

D-N
~Iean

+0·0020 +0·0305 -0·1272 +0·0043 -0·0226

-0·0294 +0·1374 -0·2574 -0·0861

-0·0992 -0.2492 -0·2888 --0·1088 -0·1865 ' I

-0·0!532 -0·2338 -0·2711 -0·0963 -0·1711

i

Before the comparisons at Jaederen were made, some flakes of rust '\Ve.-:e removed from the end surfaces of the bars, by which the lengths 'W'ere somewhat shortened. Still the length of B hall in the interim increased considerably and then diminished by not less than 0·38 111111 , ~hich revealed a change of a most significant character. I have here llltroduced the results of these comparisons in order to show why I

142

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

attacl1 so little weight to the measurement!:! of April, 1882, although the results agree very well with those of November, 1883. The two comparisons l>etween the base bars and the standard were made immediately hefore and after the measurement of the comparator in November, 1883. ·In addition to this, a direct comparh;on was made on the 23d of November, 1883, between the traveling standard belong· ing to the base apparatus, which was used in the cases just mentioned, and the Pulkowa standard at Stockholm. It was here foand that
N-P= -0·0626mm,

a value almost identical with that obtained in a. previous comparison. The results of the measurements with the base apparatus are:
Ill.

1882,

'~

Apr. 14,

'~
Mean

99'9997 99·9989 99'9995 99'9994

m,
1883,

Nov,

12,

"

"
Mean

-100'0001

100·0003 100'0000

These determinations indicate tlia.t the Ieng-th of the line had increased. Such an increase also became apparent in the discussion of the lengths obtained from measuring with the wires. This change of length pre· sents nothing vez·y surprising when it is understood that the line was laid out under the most unfavorable circumstances. The street along which the line extended was, in 1882, raised by a fill at the north end by as much as 2 111 · To support this embankment a supporting wall was built, for which it was necessary to dig n. foundation of considerable depth. Besides tins, a number of large buildings were erected in the 'immediate neighborhood, during which it is quite likely drn.t the stones received a jar or shock, and perhaps several, as they presented no evi· dence of violence and the change in the length of the liue apveared gradual. Inasmuch as a greater inerease in length took place than is shoWll in the earlier determinations, and since the value wliich was obtained m November, 1883, can not be affected with any great error, the former determination must be regarded as having a value that i8 too large· .A.s the result of seventeen trials, made between March 22, 1882, and November 17, 1883, it appears that the northern point was 0·5853"' highe.l' than the southern, while no change exceeding the probable error was apparent.
'.l.'HE INVES'l'IG.A.TION OF 1'HE WIRES AND H'fEBL 'l'APES UPON '.J.'J!Jjl COMP.A.RA'l'OR.

This investigation had for its object the determination ·of errors of length and the coefficient of expansion. All measurements were made when the sky wa1:1 overcast or when the wires and tapes could be pro·

REPORT FOR 18!13-PAR'l' U.

tected from the sun's rays, so that the temperature of the wires could be regarded as that of the air. The air temperature was ascertained from three thermometers, each held at the same distance from the ground, one being near each end of the wire and the third one at the middle. The thermometers were investigated in November, 1882, and the zero.point correction determined and errors of calibration by comparison with a standard the.rmometer at various temperatures. In January, 1884, the zero points were again examined and found to be unchanged. In the epitomized results of the. measurements of the comparator which follow, the reduction to the horizon has been made and likewise the errors from inaccuraeies of the leveling rod (equation 13) and those of the balances (equation 15). 'l'he constant length correction of the wires for the 100111 is represented by ;v1, x2, x 3 .... xa, while Yi, Y2, YJ ..·· Ya stand for the expansion in 100111 for 100 Celsius. The thermometer readi11gs have been corrected and + 15° taken as the temperature at which the wires have their normal length. Therefore '!) will indicate the amount by which the temperature exceeds l5o; and in the majority of cases it will be negative, since the measurement of the comparator was usually made in cold weather: The length of this line is represented by .r, wbicll of course is regarded as an unknown qua11tity.
,,.ire . I.
1882, :\far. 27. 1= 99·9693-;·X1 -- 1,i') )'1; :-\o. of cleterm. = 3 Apr. 19. 99·9688 + x, -- 12·2 )'h =2 26. =2 99·9617 +x,5'95J'i. " =2 June 15. 99 ·9606 x, - 4·0 )'l· Sept. 7. =2 99.9585 + x, - 0·4 ..1'1~ =2 99·9878 .r, -26·4 y,, 1883,Jan. 6. =2 99·9839 +x, --22·5 y,, 7. ~2 99·9753 + .~,- 13·4 y, . 31. Apr. 20. o=2 99'9717 .L Xt --11 '7 _l'l, Sept. 25. =2 99·9640 x, -- 4·9 y,, Oct: 16. =2 99·963o+x,- 3·4 yj, Nov. 17. =2 99·9764+x1-IS'9 )'I·

..

+ +

+

ll'in: B.

1882, :\tar. 22. 1 = 99·9215 + x, - 9·7 y,, No. of 1lcterm. " 27. 99·9281 +x,-13·6 y,, :\\>r. I 9· 99·927o+x,-12·2 J'·· June I 5. 99·9156+,.-,- 4·1 )'<· Sept. 7. 99·9105-j-x,- 0·7 Y·· 1883,Jan. 6. 99·9508 + x,-26·5 y,, 99·9522 + x, --22·6 y,, " 7. " 99·9377 + x, -- 13·4 y,, " 31. Apr. 20. 99·9327-!- x, - I 1·6 )'» " Sept. 25. 99·9197+x~- 4·9 .l'~· ·.Nov: 17. 99·9405 x, -15 ·9 Y·· "

= 2 =4 =2 =2 =2 =2 =2 =2
7_·.

2

+

=2

=3

144

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUH.VEY.
1Vfre l'.
1882, Apr. June Sept. 1883, Jan. 19 . .l = 15. 7. 6. 7. 31. Apr. 26. Sept. 25. Nov. 17. rno·o224 __;_ x:i - 11 ·45y,., No. of determ. co= 2 100·01IO·f-x3-· 4·3 y3, c=2 100·007o+x0 1·2 y:i, 0=2 100·0530 + x:i - 26·0 y., ·. =- 2 100·0471 +x:i -21·9 y,., =2 100·0330-i- x,-13·4 )':i, !00'0224-!. X3 - 9·2 )';1, 100·0124+x3-- 4·5 )'a, 100·0342--l-x:i-15'75.Y...

Wire D.
1882, Apr. _Tune Sept. 1883,Jan. 19 . .l c= 100·0566 x 4 --- 11 ·6 )'·· :\u. of determ. 3 15. 100·0509-f-x,- 4·15y,, =J 7. 100·0498-f-x, ·-- l']5J'4, co=o2 6. 100·0792--j-x4 -26·95y4, =--2 100·0752-f-x4 -21·8 J'·· =2 7. 100·0670 + x,- 13·4 )'·· = 2 31. Apr. 26. rno·o582--;- x, -· 8·2 y,, 2 Sept. 25. 100"0556+x4 - 5·2 y,, -=2 Nov. 17. 100·0687 + x.- ·- 16·7 y,, =2

+

=

-=

JJ'fr1~

E.

1 ·9 y,,, No. of cleterm. = 2 1882, Sept. 4. .l = 100·0107..;-- x 1, 100·0120-f-xh+ 0·45y., =3 7. 1883, Jan. 6. 100·0412 x. - 26·0 ;··. 100·0384-L x,,- 22'25,Yh, 7. 100·0307 +x,- 13·4 )'h· 31. Apr. 20. 100·0262 + x.-;-12·3 )'·· Sept. 25. 100·0198-f-x··- 5·5 )'h· Nov.17. 100·0278-f--x.-13·1 y,,

+

+

Wire F.
1882,Sept. 4. A---= 100·0139-i- x,; 0·9 )'1;, No. of tleterm. c= 2 IOO'OI57·f·Xti··f- 0'2 }'o;, o=2 7. IOO ·0660 +Xi; - 26 ·6 )',,, = 3 1883, Jan. 6. 100·0584-i-x6 -22·5 )'1;, =2 " 7. 31. 100·0448 ·f·Xij--13'4 )'o, =2 Apr. 20. ·.=2 100·0409-f-xo--12'55J'o;. 100·0284-;.. x,;- 5·9 )'1;, Sept. 25. =2 Nov. 17. 100·0431 -f-x6-13·4 )'1;, =3

+

Wire M.
1883, Apr. 23. A-= 100·0567 +x, -13·8 y,, No. of clete~. =3 Sept. 25. 100·0514--j-.r, - 6·4 y,, =2 Nov.17. 100·0571-f-x,-13·2;,,, " =2

Wire N.
1883, Apr. 23. il= 100·0407+xs-13·75ys, No. of cleterm. =2 Sept. 25. 100·0308-f-xs- 6·7 )'·· =2 Nov. 17. 100·043o+x.-13·1 Y·· " =2

The total number of simple obRervatious made in determining the leugth of the comparator was 13().

T/Jc following results for the length of the line were. obtained after substituti11g tile first approximate values of x and y as gfreu below: · - · - · - - - - - - - -- ·-- - ---- ·fl''

!1 -

~i

Date.

Temp. _ __

-_[-~ ~!~-

-I

B (brass).

C(brass).

D(stee!).

E (steel).

F(brass).

M (brass).

N (bras.·).

Mean.

.,,
0

I-'

~<:>

) x=40·6 mm 1--j---8-7·_3_m_m_ 1882. Mar. 22 27 :\pr. 19 26 June 15 Sept. 4 7 1883. Jan. 6 7 31 Apr. 20 23 26 Sept. 25 Oct. 16 Nm·. 17
D

~

! J' =
!

I

·04

I

I

·68

--7·9 mm 1 ·74

-52 mm 1·02

-15·0 rum

-

19·0 mm

o·99

i

·75

-43·6 mm 1·02

_-:~-o

mm

i--=--~~
I
99·9925 99·9943 99·9945 99·9961 99·9958 99·9970 99·9971 100·0004 100·0009 100·0020 99·9998 99·9986 99.9982 99·9991 100"0001

:i::
t'l '"d 0
~

1·70

T ....

+
-f'

5
I
.)

..L ·

9 -j-11 -f-16 -'-14
-12

+

-99~9959 \ 99·9967
99·9961 99·9970 99·9987 100·0010 100·0011 100·0020 100·0001

99·9925 99·9926 99·9938 99·9959 99·9966 100·0015 100·0015 100·0025 100·003 99·9988 100·0011

99·9946 99·9956 99·9970 99·9999 100·0011 100·0018 99·9985 99·9967 99·9989

99·9928 99·9947 99·996o 99·9997 100·0010 100·0013 99·9978 99·9983
·

::d
0
~

99·9976 99·9974 99·9999 100·0009 100·0022 99·9988 99·9992
1

99·9965 99·9970 100·0004 100·0000 100·0024 99·9999 99·9990 99·9982 100·0003
I

~

-7

+3 +1 + 7 -f-10
+12 +2

--r-

2

00

....

99·9995 100·0001 100·0005

99·9991 100·0007

100·0013 100·0000

!
>

<:>

.... ·-- -·--

99~9997 J_ ---·

99·9986

1-~=:6_1_ 100'~!.

~

~

: -'

.......
01
~

146

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Although 011ly approximate values for the lengths of the wires and the expansion of the same were employed in the computation, still it unquestionably appears ( l )' that the variations are not altogether dependent upo11 temperature; (2) that thl· results obtained on any one day with <liffcreut wires aµ:ree ycry well with one another; (3) that if the variations are made a fnnetion of the cha11ges in the lengtl1s of the wires, thcRe changes would appear the ;;ame for all the wires; (4) that the line itself must be regarded as varying. 'l'he especial difficulty of obtaining from the observations the errors of the wires is unquestionably to be regarded as an unfavorable e:~cep· tionul case, cau~cd by the grading aud building operations already referred to. The errors also must. be affected with a larger probable error than won l<l otl1erwise have been the case. Hence the results in the longer li11es depending upo11 this one must give a larger error than wonl<l ordi11arily he expected rather than a smaller one. So far :rn the change in the line is concerned, there was positive evi· deuce of it <lnring the early experiments, or until the begfoning of the year 1883, hnt after that it seemeu 1o remain quite constant. 'J'his cessation of change was expected about this time, since the work along the street was tbc11 complete<l. If the variation is regarded as a function of time, it ma~' he obtained if we take termR up to the third involvi11g time, as
i\ = i\.,

+ .1· t + JI cost + z Rin

t,

i11 which tis the time all(] x, J/, and:: arc co11stants. lt see111s necessu.ry to assume one expression fol' tlie per10d prior to the epoch 1883·0 and another for the time subsequent to it. I therefore place for the former
A~=

A.,+

1111t+111t

t2
2

······

(a.)

arnl for t.hc latter
i\

= Au + 111 t + nz t

······

(b)

ill wl1ich t i;; expresse<l in years dating from 1883·0 a11d Au the length of tl1c comparator at that time. The determination of' the comparator by means of the base apparatus already referred to took place November 12, 1883, or 18S:~·Sli. Therefore the equation
100·0001

=

i\.,

+ O·H6 n + 0·74 n-i ..... .
1

(c)

must be satisfied. \Vitl1011t introduci11g into the computation complications that nre witl1ont .any gain, ] ~ompnte first of all, with tlte aid of' the mean lengtl1s of the line as obtained i 11 the abo\'c approximations, t11e con· stants i11 the expressions for i\. \Veights are ascribed to these means in proportion to tlw immber of wires employed each day in finding this mean. For the pel'iod after 1883·0 we have from equation~ (b) and (c)
i\. - 100·0001

= (t

- O·SG)

11 1

+ (t~ -

O·i4)

11 2

REPORT FOH 1893-PART II.

147

and
-0·85tt 1 ---·0·74n_·, weight=6 -0·74 =06 1·9=-0·78 -0·73 " --6 -0·3=-0·56 -0·65 " ,=,~ --1·5=-0·55 -0·64 .. =2 -1·9=-0·55 -0·64 " =2 -1·0=-0·13 -0·21 " =8 o·o= -0·07 -0·12 " === [ -f-0·2=+0·02 +0·03 ". =8 +
O',) ~~

+

+o·Soc~-0·84

From these oue finds the following most P.roba.ble values: n1 = - !Hl7mm nz = + 9·59mm and from equatiou (c)
A0 = 100·0001

= 100·0013m

+ 8·31nim -

7·09mm

The eq nation (ii) uow takes the form A.= 100·0013 = m 1t from which we have
-7·0 - 6·8 -5·2 -5·5 -4·3 -4·2 =-0·77 = -0·70 =-0·69 =-0·55 =-0·33 =-0·32 +0·59 +0·49 +0·48 +0·30 +0·11 +0·10

+ m 2 t 2,
=2 °=4
=I

-8.Smm =-0·781111 +0·61111~, weight=-' 1

=4 =2 =6

which gives

+ 6·98nun Hence we have before 1883·0, A.= 100·0013m + 14·55mm x t + (M.18mm x t 2 after 1883·0, A= 100·0013m - 9·67mm x t + 9·56mm x t 2 in which tis the time in years reckoning from 1883·0. With these equations the followi11g table has been computed:
///,

m-1 = m2 =

+ l4·55mm

1882, Mar.

27 Apr. 19 " 26 June 15 Sept. 4

.

22

7
1883, Jan. 6

"
Apr.

7
20

" 31

"

23

" 26

Sept. 25 Oct. 16 No\'. 17

A.= 99·9942 ·9942 ·9946 ·9947 ·9954 ·9973 ·9974 100·0012 ·0011 ·0006 99'9993 '9993 ·9993 ·9993 ·9996 100·0002

148

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Upon this determination of A. rest the computation of errors of length and the expansion of the wires, by taking the approximate values given 011 page 14[\. for x and y equal to (x) and (y). One then obtains
Wfre B.
111111. --1

'7 = (x1)-14(y1)

-2 ·1 = (x1)--12(y1) - 1 ·4= (x1) - 6(yi) -1 ·6= (x1)-· 4( Y1) 0 --1 ·3= (x 1) - o(y1 ) +0·2·-(x1)-26(y1 ) o·o=(x1)-23(y1) - 1 ·4=(x1)·- IJ(Y1) -0·8=(x1 )-12(y1) --.0·2=(x1)- S(Y1) -o·s=(x,)-- 3(;·1) -0·3-(x1) -16(y1)
Wire C.
mm.

+ I ·7 = (x2)- 1o(y2)
+ 1 ·6 = (x·) - 14(y2) + o·8 = (x.)-12(y.) -0·5=(x,)- 4(y,) o·8 = (x,) - 1 (y,) --0·3 = (x·)-27(y,) -0·4-(x,) -23(;·z) - 1 ·9=-(xi) - IJ(J'o) I 'O=(x.)-12(;·,) 0·5 = (x2) - 5(y,) -0·9 = (x0 ) - 16(y,)

mm.

+

+

Wire D. mm.

o·o=(xo)-11(ya) -0·2=(xa),- 4(ya) -+ 0·4=(xa)- 1(y3) 0·3 = (xa)-26(yo) o·o = (x3 ) - 22(ya) -1·2= (xo)-13(ya) +o·8=(xa)- 9(Yo) +2·6=(xa)- 4(J·a) + 1·3=(x3 )-16(y3 )

+

+ +

+

+ 1.8=(~-.)-12(y.) +0·7=(x.)- 4(y.) 1 ·4 = (x.) 2(y.) 1 ·5 -(x,) ·- 27(;") + 0·1 =(x,)-22(y,) -0·7 = (x,)-13(;") 1 ·5 = (x,)-- 8(y,) +x·o·=(x,)- 5(Y·) +0·5=(x,)-17(y,)
Wire 1".

Wire E.

mm. 2(y6 ) o·o=(x6 J+ o(y6 ) + 1 ·3= (x,) -26(y6 ) -j-0·2= (x6 )-·22(y6 ) - I ·6 = (x6) - 13(y,) -j-0·5 =(x,)-12(y.) +0·1=(x6 ) - 6(y6) o·6= (x6 ) - 13(J'·)
-o·~=(x6 )

+

+

I (J·8 ) -j-0·4=(xH)-!- o(xn) +o·8= (x~)-27(y5) +1 ·1=(x6)-22(y6) -1 ·8= (x6)-13(y6) -0·6 = (~-0)-13( Yo) +0·2=(x6 ) · - 6(yo) -0·5 = (xo)-13(yH)

+ o·8 = (x,;) +

111m.

Wire M_ mni. -j-0·3= (x1)-14(y1) -2·o=(x7 ) - 6(y1) 0·2= (x7) -13(y1)

WfreN. ·
111111.

+ 1 ·1 =-(xe)-14(ye)
-1·o=(xs)- 7(Ys) -1 ·4 '--= (xe) -13(ys)

+

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

149

From these we can obtain the following equations, involving the unknown quantities, the first member being in millimetres.
-11·1= 12(x1)- 134(y,), 93·7 = -13+(x1) 22oo(y1), 9(xa)- 106(y:i). + s·o= -56·2=-106(x3 ) + 182o(y3 ),

+

-j- 0·4

I I (x2) - I37,(y2), -- 18·1 -=o-137(.r,) 2309(y.2),

=

+
L

+

7·8 ~= 9(.t-.)- 11o(y,), --86·3 -o--= - 110(.r,) 1924(y,), .

+

+

o·8=

-32·4,~-

8(x.,)- 9o(y.), -- 9o(x,) 1682(y.l,

+

0·4 = 8·5 _oc

--

8(x,;) -- 93(_1·,;), 93(.r·)+ 1757(y,;),

-

+

1·5= 3(x1)- 33()·1). 5·2=- 33(x1) "- 401(y1),

I '3 J(x·) ·- 34()'·), -1- 9·8 = -- 34(x·) 414(y.),

=

+

From which we obtain
(x1)=-I·41, .\"1·=39·19, (y1) =-0·043, y, = 0·997, (xo)=..J-0·61, (Ya)-= +0·005, (x_,)=-0·29, (J··)=-0·035,
x:i= -7·29, )'a= 1·745, x,=--15·29, )'·= 0·955, X1= -44·38, _1'7 c" 0·996,

(x,)=+0·51, x,=+87·81, (y,) =+0·038, )'·= 1·718,
(x,) =

+ 1 ·06,
1·016,

.r, = -- 50·94,
J'-t -:-:::
x ..
1 ·036,

(x.;) o=o-0·02,

=-

()'u) =-0·006, )'· o·-=

19·02, 1 ·744,

XH=-19"15,

Y·= 1 ·736. For the wires ilf an<l .N the coefficient of expansion is taken aR the llleau of the preceding wires of the same metal, inasmuch as the 1111111ber of determinations was too few to admit of an illl~ependeut determination for each. 'l'he wires, therefore, when hangiug free and under the tension already mentioned, have the following lengths in metres from tho middle of the scale at one end to the middle of the scale at the other, mid also the coefficient of expansio_n for 1 o Celsius:
A 25·009fo Cocf. of ex., (0·0000)0997 Wire, E Length, 24 ·99618 Cocf. of ex., (0·0000)0955
Wire,

Length,

B 25·02195 1718
F

c
24·99818 1745
llf

D

24·99727 1036
N

24·99524 1744

24·98890 0996

::!4 ·99521 1736.

Since these e:qieriments gave a noticeably smaller coefficient of expansion for steel, as well as brass, than has usually been found for tLese :::netals, I have deemed it wise to determine these coefficients independent of any geodetic operation. For this purpose I employed the proper apparatns, belonging to the school of technology, in which the wires are immersed in water of different temperatures. The changes in length were read by a telescope in a mirror, which, turned by the expansion or contraction of the wire, foftected the divisions of a large scale placed at a suitable distance from it. The result of these investig·ations gave for the brass wire from which P was taken Coefficient of expansion = o-110001751, and for steel wire 1 ·3 111111 in diameter Coefticien t of expnusio11 = 0.00000!)7!},

150

U. S. COAS'f AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Some days Jater the experimeuts were repeated, giving for the former 0·00001703 and for the latter 0·00000988; or, takiug the rneaJJs we have, Uoefficieut of expansion for clrnwn brass wire= 0·00001727 Coefficient of expansion for 1lra wn steel wire= (Hl000098,i, results which agree very closely with those found in the direct measuring. The errors of length and coeflicients of expansion for the two steel tapes A and B were also determined by measurement of the comparator; but since these tapes were only occasionally used in measuring the short overlaps at the ends of the line, a detailed account of the experiments can have no special interest. 'l'herefore the results only will be given: The length of the tape A at 15° Celsius = 20.00303 111 · 'rhe length of the tape B nt 15° Celsius = 20.00493 111 · The coefficient of expansion for A = 0.00001046. The coefficient of expansion for B = o.000010ao. The Jength given above is for the tapes whe11 lyi11g· 011 a Jint i,;nrface and without tension. In addition, the errors of graduation were determined for A, it alone being used iu the final measurements. 'rhey are given in the table below, combined with the errors of length for tile normal tension and also the errors if lOk or 15k tension were employed.
E1·ro1·s of u1·adualio11
I

+ c1'1'01' of length.
-··-·----·

-------------··---·--·--··Tu=6'72._
___ J __ .

l"=1ok

I
1
I

1'=15·

I
JI/,

0
I
0

I

3 4 5 6 7 8 9
IO

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

k. o·oo 0·91 1·45 1·88 2·30 2·67 "'01 3·34 3·65 3·95 4·24 4·51 4·78 5·05 5·3o 5·55 5'79 6·03 6·27 6·50 6·72

111111.

k.

1Jl111,

·'

o·o -J-0·3 0·5 0·7 0·9 1 ·2 1·0 I '3 1·1 I '41 ·8 2·1 2·0 2·2 2·1
2·2 2·2

6·96 6·98 7·02 7·10
j'20

2·6 2·6 3·1 3·0

7·32 7·45 7·60 7 '77 7·94 8·1 I 8·30 8·48 8·67 8·86 9·05 9·24 9·43 9·62 9·81
IO'OO

o·o .:..0·4 o·8 1·1 I ·5 I '9 1 ·9 2·3 2·3 2·7 3·2 3·8 3·8 4·1 4·1 4·4

4·6 5·1 5 ·3 5·9 6·o

k. 13·65 13·65 13·67 13·69 13·71 13'75 13'79 13·84 13·90 13·96 14·03 14·11 14·19 14·28 14'37 14·47 14 ·57 14·67 1478 14·89 15·00

1!l1JI.

o·o ·/-0·6 1·1 1 ·5
;?'O

2·6 2·8 3·3 3·5

4·0

4·7 5·3 5·5 6·o 6·2 6·6 6·9 7·6 7·9 8·7 8·8

,, I
/ flo-0 I

/;

/I

p:t:l
I

/

1

R;
1

I I
I

I

I

i

I I!
I

.:

-

REPORT J:.'OH 1893-PART II.
'l'Il:E LONG- LINE.

151

This line also is situated on" Laduganlsgardet," uear Stockholm, but it is not the liue measured in 1864 by Professor Liudhagen with the base apparatus belonging to the Academy of 8ciences. Oue end of· this line is covered by dirt, aud buildings lmye been erecte<l at dillerent points along· it. In figure 3 .iL B is the old liue a111l A' B' tl1e new one. The terminal points, as weU as tlw two intermediate l)Oints I and II, are fixeu by small holes drilled iuto a roll of iron firmly fastened in the upper surface of stone blocks. The measurement in 1864 gave for .il B reduced to sea level '.!3~0·1878111 · In order to comp~re this result with the length of .il' B' obtained by wire measurement the two lines were co11ucctcd by means of a triangulation. At the beginning, in 1880, it was possible to determine BB' by direct measurement, but shortly aftCl'\\'l1l'US a house Was built in the way, i'iO that it was necessary to establish an intermediate point, b. Each of tlie values given below is the mean or at least two independent ueter. minations.
LENG'l'IIS.

m.
1880, A.pr. 2G, line B b, measured with st.eel tape A, lGHi456 May 2, '' B B', " " '' " '' 2!J4_.4511 1882, 1\:1 ay 17, " B' b, " " wires, 135·4757 1 " " " May HI, " A A , 64·3883

When reduced to sea level the lines have the following values:
AB = 2320·1878 B b = 1131·6453 BB' 2!l4·450<i B' b = 135·4757 A AI= G4·3882

m.

=

ANGLl~

ltEADINGS.

IJ 1880, l\fay 3, BB' A, usiug a theodolite of Ertel reading 0 Li4 1 2U·6 to 10" l>y means of verniers, 1882, May 20, Ab B, using a univer:-ml instrument of 'Vanschaft' reading to 1" by means of microscopes, Hi:3 4 ~~8·(i 51 :~8·!) AbA', A 1 bB1 , :n 2!l ] fj-(i BbB 1, 16'1 34 ~5·9 1882, .June 12, B 1 A' b, with the same instrument, 2 l 57·7 UH ;3;; -12·2 bA'A,

152

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SUJn'EY.

In the triangle B b B' the sides B b a11tl I> B' lwing· known from direct measurement and the allf.('le B b B', one obLtined from computation
B B'=294·4;'.i38

By giving the 111easmed mine m~ig-ht 2 and this eomputed result weight 1, tbe mean g-iv1~s UR' ='.!!l4·4iili And after 111aki11g the cor1·cctio11s fo1· t.riangle errors it. was f'ouud

that
B b=1Gl·G442

B' b =13ti·474i
In the triangle AB b, BI>, A Hand A b B m·e known, from which one can find that
0
II

and
A b=A l~ cos b .A B

b AB= 1 !J 43·1;) A B b = l;j 4.i 38.2;j

using the k11ow11 equation

+ l~ h cos A

b B =A R - 2 A B sin 2 ~b A R cos Ab lJ
Vi4·1H48

+Bb

or
Ab·-~ 2:~20·1878 111

= 0·4771 -

= 211i;j·Ofi;j!I.

In the same manner, from A B' b I fourHI

A B'
aud from A b A

= 2051 ·89u'i'" A' b = 2100·2877
111

Aud, finally, from tlie t1\iaugle AA' B'

A' B' = 19!frOH8
and from A' B' b

A' R' = 1995·0168

the mean of which was accepted as a ;.;nflicienL approximation, or

A' B

=

199,j·Ol,';8111

DETEIUII~ATION

01·' A' JJ' WITH WIHE8.

In measuring, two wires were always used, one of st.eel and one of urass. By means of the di1fcrence in the readings of the two a che.ck is ·obtained on the reudiug· and data for the detcrminatiou of temperature. If the two wires at the normal temperature (+mo Celsius) have lengths L and L', and if we dm;ig11ate u,r c and c' the scale readings, then after applying n 1vire lengths the sums of the readmgs would ue ;;B c and :.:£ c'. Again, if the cxeess of temperature above the J1or11Htl teruperattue be iudicated uy t and. tile coefficieuts of expausiou l>y a

REPORT FOR 1893-PA.R'l' II.

153

antl fl, then the length of the measured line ;\. is for one wire ascertained from the equation l=nL+.2.!e+nLat and for the other wire

;\. = 11 1/ + 2' e' + n .I/ fl
therefore

t

n . L' + .2E--e--.-----2' e' , t- n -·-L .... -- --------n (L' jJ - J, t.r)

By substituting this expression for t in one of the equations above, we have il _ ~~_f!__(n L +~_e) .~ L _a (1~~~+-~~) (J L' - t.r L or, if the length of the line according to the two wires ue represented bys and s'-that is, without reference to the temperature-then
l=s+ (J-a(s-s')=s'+ /F;_a(s-s')-----·
a

fJ

(lG)

or
;\. =

f:J-a

_fl_ s - -- a · e'
fl-<.r

Prom the latter of these equations it is evident that if at each reading of the scale there was a probable error of .::!: r, the pl'Obable error for the whole line from this cause would be
<p=

2 _,---vn(!fl+ a 2) · · · · · · ±.__fl ___ -a

(17)

a formula which is true only when the temperature, a~ is here regarded, iis determined by the differences in the scale readings. Over smooth ground the errors of' length resulting from errors of contact and of differences of elevation are of very slight consequence. In such a case the accidental error only is found from equation (17). Instead of using equation (rn), it would be better to compute the length of the line in such a way that the temperature may be taken ~rom a table already prepared in which the argument is the difference in the lengths of the two wires and the tabulated values degrees. In this way, by computing the length of the line for each wire, one has a check on the work. For the wires A and B, at + 15° Celsius, the difference in lengths, B - A = + l~H[)mm and the relative expansion for 1°
25111 ((J - t.t') = 0·1802mm

154

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

from which the following table was prepared:
· Differences of expansion .
..

·-------------·
I .

__ B-,'. ____ , __ ~_1_1_1--A-·
-15 14 13 12
II

o

I I
.

------:~- ~-~1Jl1Jl.

IO

9 8 7 6

6·75 6·93 7·11 'j·29 7·47 7·65 7·83 8·01 8·19 8·37

111111.

I

0

111111.

I
,
I'

7 8 9 10
II

,. .

5
4 3 2
I

8·55
8·73 8·91 9·09 9·27 9·45 9·63 9·81 9·99 10·17 10·35 10·53

I
·

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20

0

-1-

I

2 3 4 5 6

21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

10·71 10·89 I 1 ·07 I I ·25 II ·43 II ·61 I I ·79 II '97 12·15 12·34 12·52 12·70 12·88 13·06 13·24 13·42 13·60 13·78 13·96 14·14 14·32 14·50

29 30 31 32 33

14·68 14·86 15 ·04 15 ·22 15·40

Differences.

0

1Jl11l.

o·o
·1

·3 ·4

·5
·6

o·oo ·02 ·04 ·05 ·07 ·09
·11

·7
·8 ·9 1·0

·13 ·14 ·.16 ·18

The necessary perso111wl few measuring is as follows: One person for the spring balance. one at each end to place the scales side by side and to make the readings, one for leveling, and one for marking-or five trui;;ty persous. For handwork there are needed one person for the small steel balance, one to hold the leveling rod, and two for carrying instrument_s, pegs, etc., along· the line, making four workmen. 'l'hUS it will be seen that in order to have the work move along without deJaYS nine persou8 are essential. In the work on "Ludugiirdsgiirdet. '' the number of assistants wai-; not 1:10 large as desirable. Besides thi8 1 ti.le continuous progress of the work was often hindered by passing wagons and the drilling of soldiers. '.l'his latter interruption is the reaso11 whY the line A' B' was seldom measured as a whole, but in the seetions A' 1, I II, a11d II B' independently and irregularly. During- the first few days a leveling rod was used which was pro· vided with two targets, the second one bei11g on the reverse side anc1 read downward, the zero being at the top. 'rhc advantage th 118 atlorded was that the two readings should always have a constant s11 111 1 thereby furnishing a ehcck. But after some <lays one of the targets was injured, and thereafter the ordinary method was pursued with confhlence, inasmuch as up to that time no erroneous readings had beeu made.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'r II.

155

The following· gives the measurements
1882. May 8. 9.
Line

of A

I

B':
Remarks.

Began 10:50 a. m. 7:45

Finished

A1 I II I

4:00 p. m.
IO:!Oa.m.

" "

10. 11.

IIB II I IIB II I
IA' A1I IIB'

---------7:00 p. m. 0:20 6:45 8:40 a. m. 0:30 p. m. 3:25 8:4oa.m. 3: IO p. m.

"12. " 15.

A'l lIB

3:15 p. m. 8:10 2:50 7:25 10:50 a. m. 2:25 p. m. 5:5o 10:55a.m. 6:40 p. m.

Sunshine, scattering clouds. wind = 3 to 4.* Thin clouds. Still. Sunshine, wind== 1. still. scattering clouds, wind=! to 2. wind=2. Rain,windooc-2, Sunshine, wind at right angles to the wires.

In 'these measurements only wires A and B were employed and the tape A. fn the autumn of the same year the line was measured twice by a }larty of students, using the wires E and F, but unfortunately palpable errors were m~tde, making the results useless. However, I mention them here merely to show how rapidly measurements of this kind cau he done.
1882. Sept. 8.
Linc

Begun 9:15 a. m. 2:30 p. m. 3:40 8:30 a. m. 0:40 p. m. 1:40

.Finishcll

Remarks.

A'l

I II IIH
9.
B'll I II IA 1

o:oo 3:40 p. m. 6:05 10:50 a. m. 1:40 p. m. 3:50

Sunshine, scattering- cloucls,

wincl=2.

The three lines . tl' I, I II, and II B' have the lengths 740, 367, 888 llletres, re~pectively. 'l'he rapidity of the measurement in metres is aR follows :

·----·---.--·----1-- .......

_____ I _:~~- _'
1882. Mny 8 9 10
II

1

Time.

Lengths : Lengths j per hour. i per duy. I

1

~~~
~~~

740

Ii.

5
2

"'·
IO

::

i~~}
j~~}
550
342} 386 367 329 254

143

740 1622 1622 2368 740 888 1995

12 15 8 Sept.

367 740 740 888 740 888

0 2
2

~ ~~
2

~~~

3 2

40 10 55 25 15 30

~6

;~~}

__ j i!! _JJj!l} _·'" · Estimuted by the meteorological scale· o=still, 6=hurrlcane.

156

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The best speed was 550 111 in an hour, and the largest day's work was on the day when operations began at 8 :40 a. m. and continued until 5 :50 p. m. ·On this day 2368"' were measured. The following is the record of one measurement of a line. The num· bering is from A'. Of' course the record of the measurement of the line '~as separate from the record of the leveling, but they are united here for illustrative purposes. V\rith the steel tape the tension was always To'. For the wires A and B, ~- = 1·383 and _(1_ = 2·383, 1 which
. (1-a fi-a

values are to be employed when the computation is made according to equation (lG). [1882, ::Ila~· 10.]
··---------tal reduction.t
HorizonPoint. ; __ . -···· - - · - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - - - - - - --·--- · · - - - - - - - -

I
I
I

Wire.
A B

Leveling.

Remarks.

__ ,J_____ '_
Diff.

i

___Readings._!

Diff.

I I,-------- - ..
dm. o·oo mm. !

Height.·

!
i
;

111111.

mm.
60·2 78·7 75·4 18·3 73·4 46·8 19·3

mm.
II '9

dm. 0·38
2·03

I

r/111.

dm.
1 ·65

72·1 90·7

30 12'0 11 ·5 31 86·9 32 30·5 33 34 35 36 91 ·3 37 54·8 38 38·0 39 58·5 40 56·8 41 17·1 42 98·8 43 5·2 i 11.9 57·9 11·9 45·0 11·8:
I

7·40 -!0'97 3·91

0·5 : 10:3oa. m.
11'0

i i

1 ·65 9·05 24·1 3·0

9·43 20·40 24'.11 2·30

!Sunshine.

,.., ...,
n ·8

-20·02 -23·93 -- 0·42 2·72 4·13 -24·35 o·o 0·4 -25·76 + 1·54 -24·22 0·70
~24'92

85·2 58·6 31·7

11·8 1 - - -

I
I

I

1 ·41

12·4 2·59 1G·83 12·59 _3:29

79·1 ' 12·2 42·9 26·3
II

'9 9·43 1 ·21
I 2·~J5

--1

I I
I

0.5 0'1 3·6 -20·68
2'0

+ 4·24

11 ·7 20·06 __8'.~\J.
1B·39

4G·4 ! 12'1

+ 3·16 + 8·22
+11·17 .; 14·65 +18·41

-17·52 13·6 9·30 25·0 1 ·87 43·0 67·0 -1-34'93
:

+

1·00

-f-16·52 -- 5 ·24 8·1t

I

·-0'02 5·22

17·0-66·0 842
=~c

II
674·9=~e'

-:-29·69 Sum =

1---, 11:2oa. m·

! 202·81

The mean of the diff. = 11 ·94'"'"· The corresponding tc!mperature ~ =

+ 13°·85.

·The check is in the difference· between the first an<l last number in each row of rendings. d t This is taken from the table on pp. 135, 136. In the record the readings on the reverse scale I· omltte ' i Based on equation (12a) 1rnd the table followin;:(. §Taken from table on p. 154.
''l'he coefficients of expansion, which were dctcrmine<l gcodct1cally 1 have been applied here.

REPORT !<'OR 1893-PART II.
[188~, ~In~·

157

10.]

,-------·---·-------·--··\.\'ire.
..i

·--

··1
I

! --------- Diff.
Readings.
111111.
12·~

Leveling.
Diff.
llei~ht.

!
1

IJ

Horizon· tat reduction.

Remarks .

111111.

11l1Jl.

II
53·1

I ""'·
I
I
1

d111.

i

d111.

d111.

111111.

5·22

o·oo

·6s

3·54

77·2
56·4 36·0 33·6 98·7

65·4 .44'1 23·7 21 ·5 86·4 83·7 70·8

11

·8

+
-

2·5 3·54 2·68 5·9 1 ·5
o::?O p. m.

8·5

::::1-1
12·3
11

. 8·20 ' 12·3 I ' 17·78

I
S'43 2·67

-12·56

so
51

95·6 82·6

I I ·9 I
I

--20·66 - 3·31 -23·97 3·13 -27'!0 --- 3·18 18·00 2·60 --32·88 --30·28
I

· 1 ·9

11·8

2·0

'4

42·0

30·0 81 ·2 38·0 66·8

12'0
2

1 ·16

O'' .l

S3
93·3 S4 50·0

12·1 12·0 12·2 12'1

I
;i

'99 2·43

-34·04 8·8
1 ·2

9·62 12·05 -43·!0 -11':?4 25 ·3 -54·34 3·97 6·80 ---57'17 2·97 -- 3·74 6·71 8·39 11

SS
S6 79·o 83·7

57
S8 8s·4 64·8

' 23·29 I 19·32
I
26·12

+

3·1 -50·37 9·2
1 ·S

73·s
S3'0 36·5 55·6
1

11

·9

S9
60 61 48·4

: : 1~?2~
12'1 12'1 12·3 11. 7 12·0 8·67 12·1

3·00

67'7
91·4 97' 2 42·9 93 ·8

-

1·68 -65·59 3·49 -69·08

o·6
Wind=I.:

79·2 I 12·2 8s·1 30·6 82· 1

2·5 3.9 --64·66
10·3

·88

I

7'46 0·29

I .
·1

+ 4·42
+
7·17

s,,,,,,,,. I

l

-l- 0·31
s·70

-57·49 -57·18

o·o

14·37 -0·02 : 95·2 ' 83·2 4S'7 67 68 84·4 7o I 40·3

I .

I---1

6·5 -51·48 -47·90

33·6 89·2

101 ·5

72·7·I 28·8 '

I

12.3
12·1

I 5·09

I

1

'53

0·83
4·62

+ 0·70
3·79 0·61

-44·34 ---43·64

0·1
:?·~·

11

·5

_J__~1~~~~:~\~1~5 ---

--47·43
j I ' -··---------·------·- ··-------------1

I

I

'J

158

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
[1882, :Muy IO-Conti11111·<1].
\\~ire.

!
-------

----~:~:ling.-- -------~I H
- - - - - - - ,- - - - 1

____ __:_..-·
or1zon·

Point.

I_____ ·-A

-------,-// Diff.
lllfll, 11l1/l.

~~~~s·--!---~ff.
d111. ' tlm. t/111.

_I

~eigh~-1 duct~~-----dm. mm.

tal re-

Remarks.

11ll!I.

5.23 71·0 73 74 59·3 11"7 7.71 61·5 i 49·5 91·8 51 ·2 12'0
II

-48·04

2·0 8·6

I 80·0
I 39·1
66·7

·8

_D._:_

+
2 3 ·99

3·20 -47·32 6·57

+

23·3 12·9 0·1 -21·93 23·0 1·1 ·74 -ro·o7 Sum=
--II

12·1 12·3S

+10·79

75
76 77 78
fil

I I 68·1
I
'

79·1

12·4 12·91 2·19 0·52

56·o 12·1 12·4-5·9
=::::&<'

1~1 I
I

+ 8·03
0·53 -l-ro·72 ---ro·o7

'2455·8

201

·1

I ------

2035. 3 =~e'

I

-------- - · - - - ' - - - - - - - - - - ' - - - - - - - ' - - - - ' - - - - - -

The mean of the diff. =12·01 11 " 11 · The temperature=+ 14°·2.
[Ma.v 11.]
i
\\·'ire.

---Remarks.

Point. j·

-- _J ~~-'·
! mm.
I
I

Dill.
Ji

Readings.

Leveling· Horizon· --· -------· -··-- - - - tal reDiff. Height. duct!on.

mm.

111111.

d111.
1 ·55

dm.

d111.

dm.

111111.

··----8:40 a.
Ill· 1

o·oo ·- 1·61 0·52 0.5 0·1

62·6 29 28 22·6 27 26 95·8 25 59·2 24 35·8 23 75·2 22 21 20
I

50·5 42·8
II

12'1 5·80 12·2 Sunshine. No wind·

55·0

·o

I

II I I

·6

7·93 ·9

58·2

46·3 84·1 47'3 24·2 63·1

7·77
Il'7 !0'49
II II

+ 0·16

I

o·o
6·22
I

·5

·9

7·31
~

·6

12'1
II

79·9 58·0 71 ·7 49·1 37'0

·6

12·1
12·2

+ 3·18 + 4·81 - 0·95 + 2·30 + 1'35 + 4·80: + 6·15 + 9·94
I

2·0

l'l

·73

o·6'
1

12·1

+

2·73

·5

I

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.
[May 11-Contlnuerl.]

159

- - - !"'ire.
Point. I

I
18

A
111111.

IJ

Diff.

Lc1·eling. ------ ··---- - · ·· -· ·Rca<iinl{l>. Diff. I Height.

Horizontal reduction.

l~cmnrks.

i

111111.

111111.

--~/~.-T- "0 111·~88- -;,~:---,I.

--,::-il-::::-----'--19·65 +20·53 i
!

44·2 17 48·6 16 67·4 15 51 ·3 ' 55·3 13 12

32·0 36·8 55·2 38·8 43·2

12·z .I o·oo 11·8 4·17 12·2 12·5 12·1
11

+ 0·88
-- 4·17 4·55

.
1 1
1

0·2 3·5 4·1 2·3
O'I

+16·36

+15·67 + 7·10 +22·77 + 2·61 -j-25·38 -j-33·59
10·2

·7

Cloudy.

42·3 : 30·6
II
IO
I

11 ·7

1·4

i8·2 ! 66·7 73·5
9

! 61 ·8
I

83·9
8

71 ·9 54·7 41 ·1 I 57 ·s

::::1-11·5
11

11 ·5

1·071 11 ·80

+ 8·21 -+ 7'4S + 6·86
0·75

I
I
J

I

13·5
11 '2

+41·07' 9·4
O'I

66·2

I

+47·95

7
6

52·7

·6

I

I

12·2

5
4

o·oo 12·08 0·51

+ o·6o + 5·o9
0·51

+47·18

0·1 5·2 0·1

!-47'78
+52·87 -t-52·36

I

99·7 54·2

87·7 42·3

12·0
11 ·9

+ 7·31
-j-74·80 +82·77

10·7 -j-59·97 -j-74·80 12·7 +82·77 12·9 -j-87·17 26·0 81 ·2::
Sum==

3
2

:::: I ;::~ I
6·9 -85·2

+15·13

+
0

7·97

+ 4·40
5·95
___:__

-j-87. 17 -j-81.22

10:50 205·9

I - - - : _ ______________
. 1454 ·6 ,-~:Er'
The mean of the cliff.= 11·92mm, The mean temperature :...--o 13°·7.

· 1880·3--=,...::?:,· I I [

__________________

,

C0111PU'.l'A'l'ION OP 'l'HE LINE.

In determining the length of the line it is necessary to observe the following precau'tion: In placi11g- eacl1 wire pnt; the scale so that the reading increases toward the rear end of the wire. The lengths just given refer in each case to the middle mark of the scale, the scale covering 5c 1" , except on 1lf, where it begins with ti and stops at 15. l?or this reason, since these 0'' cuter iuto each reading, it is necessary
111

160

U. kl. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

tb subtract 5Qmrn from the reading, or, what is better, from the length of the wire, before multiplying it by the number of wires. Before taking from the table the temperature, by using the mean of the differences of readings as an argument, it is well to make the correction for the erroneous readings of the spring balance from the table on page 140. The rest of the computation will explain itself. The leveliug rod is too long by lrh of its length; therefore each reading must be corrected by+ r.h·
1882, }IAY 10, LINE I II.

Approximate temperature= + 14°. The correction for the old balance at 10k aud + 140 is (p. 140) - 0·07k. The resulting error in the length of the wire A :.o .· c - 0·07 111111 , in B = - 0·13m 111 · These values multiplied by 1·1, the number of wire lengths, give the correction to :Se and ::Ee', or 2' c ···'- 84'.Nl 111111 ::Ee' "''' ()74.9mm error=-, -1·0 error =,· -1 ·8 corrected 2' e =- 841;0 corrected ::E c' """ 1;73;1 The difference between these values, 167·!Jm111 , divided by 14 gives the argument for finding the temperature. . 167·9 The corrected mean of difference&= - 14 - = 11 ·99mm; therefore (p. lM) temp. = 14°.1.
Wire ..d.
m.

Wire B.
Ill.

14 x 24·9598o ::Se (corrected) (14°·1-15°)x3·5xo·997= 350·2782 -·0031 350·2751

14x24·97195 ::Se' (corrected) 350·2804 (14°·1-15°) x 3·5 x 1 ·718 o..-= -·0054
111.

The tape A Errors of di vision -+ errors of length Temp. corr. (-0°·9 X 0·17 X 1·046) Reduction to the ho1izon
-

= =
SSS
2

16·9340} ·0026 -·0002
111111.

·2035
Line I 11

Corr. for error in leveling rod+ 202·8 X

'l'he results are as follows:
Line A' I.
111n1.
0

1882, May 8. A 1 I
I A1 1 I. A 1 I
11.

12. A 1 I
Mean

739·7708 ·7723 ·7695 ·7725 =739·7713±0·5

7'-=

+ 13·3
14·1 13·7 8·o

Sunshine, sca!tering cloucls. Sunshine, still. \Vind '·=I to 2. Heavy rain, wiml ·"-' ~.

REPOR'r FOR 1893-PART II.

161

'Probable error of .a measurement=± 0·9mm,
Line I II.
1/llJl.
0

1882, May 9. 9. 10. 10.

I II II I I II II I

367·0127 ·0120 ·0079 ·0100 oo-=367·0106±o·j

7'=

+ 107
8·1 14·1 8·5

Sunshine, wind=3 to 4. Still. Sunshine. Sunshine.

Mean

Probable error of a measurement= :I: 1 ·4 111111 ·
Line 11 JJ'.
1882, May 9. IIB 1
mm. 888·2372 ·2371 ·2287 ·2380

7'=

IIB 1 II. II B 1 15. II B 1
IO.

Mean

=888·2352::1:1 ·5

----

II ·5 14·6 14'1 10·3

Thin clouds. Sunshine, wind= I. Sunshine, wind= 2. Sunshine, wind vertical to wire.

M:ean = 888·2352

± l{imm,
~;;2-+

Probable error of a measurement = ± 2·!l'"rn, Liue A' B' = 19fl5·0171 :!: ./
111

O''f2 + T'lri

= lfl!l5·01,71 + 1·7tnlll,
111

Probable error of a measurement = ± 3·4"' 111 , or 1: GOO 000. If the measurement of May 11 of II B' were excluded, for which Unfortuuately there is no good reason, we would have

A' B' = 1995·0193 ::!:

()·!)mm,

Probable error of a measurement = ± 1·7mrn, or 1: 1200 000. The height of the three sections above sea level is
111,

A' I III IIB'

ll·G 7·8 7·8

Which gives the following corrections for the reduction to sea level: for A' I -1.·3 111111 , for I II - 0·5111111 , for II 13' - l·lmm, This makes the lines at sea level to have the following lengths:
111.

A'I III IIB'
.11' B
8. E:x. 19, pt. 2-11

739·7700 367·0101 888·2341
1

1 995 ·0142

162

U. S. COAS'r AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The result of the computation from AB was 1995·0158, which agre·es with the measurement within l·G 111111 , or 1: 1 250 000. By omitting the one result for II B already:ref'erretJ. to, or taking for A 1 B lfl95·0164111 , the 1liffore11ce would be only 0·6 111111 , or 1: 3 300 000. The probable error committed in making a scale reading can be c,btained from the record by supposing that the temperature was constant during an entire measurement. Since the temperature was changing, the variation of differences is effected by thm;c temperature changes, and the error obtained in this manner will be somewhat too large. The record gives

mm.
for I II IIB'
I .il'

:!: 0·156 :!: 0·15!)
:!: O·Hi4+ 0·164

Qr the mean

'l'he probable error for the 1lift'erencc ot' the two readings must therefore be less than :!: 0·1()4 111111 , and each individual reading must be affocted by an error which is smaller than

+ ~·16~ or :!: O·l16'nm
1/'2

From equation (17) the probable error in a li11e 2onom in le11g-th, when

n

= 80,

i8
qi<

mm. :!: :..!·86

or

qi

< 1 : 700 000

'fhe greatest accidental error is evidently that which arises in reading- the scales. For in the alignment, although made with the unaided eye, the average error can not exceed ::!c 111 , au inaecm·acy which, if uni· formly committed, coul1l cause an error for each wire lm1g·th of ouly 0·00811 " 11 , or for. !!000111 , O·li-1111111 ; and this error would always have the same sign. 'fhe error in leveling from which result errors in <let.-:,r111iui11g the difference in the heights of the two ends of the wire could uot well make this difference erroneous by more than 3 111111 ~ whicl1, if each inclination were as much as 1 : 100, would cause an error of only 0·03 111111 ; aml since the sign of thh; may be either plus or minus, for 80 lengths it would uot exceed 0·03 v'SO = 0·27 111111 · If tlie inclination were alwu.ys 1 : 20 the errors would he 0·15aud1·3 11 " 11 , a11<l this is less than the errors resulting from the error of measuring or from faulty scale readi11g-. The discussion just eompldc<l of the various sources of error which arise in the rneasurcmeJJt of lines with wires may appear to detract from the confidc~wc which this method appear.ed to beget. The resulting probable error for the measurement finds its confirmation partly in the agreement of the measures one with another and partly in the coiuciflence of the final results for the wl10le liue with the value obtained when 111eas111·cd with aJJother form of apparatus.

REPORT FOR· 1893-PART II.

163

With reference to the former of the above remarks, it is necessary to call attention to the unfavorable conditions under which the comparator was measured, for it was during· this period that because of external conditions the line was· very unstable: This occasioued a less accurate determination of the lengths of the wires, as well as a less reliable Value for the coemcieuts of expansion, than nuder ordinary circumstances could be expected. l~rom the etTor in the determination of the lengths arises a constant error in the nature of a correction to the length as well as an error iu the temperature coming from the scale readings-themselves dependent upon the leugths. Likewise, an erroneous val ne for the coetlicient of expansion occasions au error in the temperature reduction of the liJrn and also a varying error in the determination of the temperature itselt'. The error in th"e actual length of the wire has for tlw same line the same value, and the nearer the temperature i:emains coustant (luring the measuriug the nearer const~111t will be the error resulting from the uncertainties in the determinatiou of the coefli.cient of expansion. Since in the experiments here described the latt~r was the case, the total error arising from these sources may be approximately regarded as a constant correction factor, or for the line A' B' it is of the same size for all the measurements. The interagreement in the various mea~urements of the line ..-1' B' can not be sensibly affected by these errors. On the otller hand, in comparing- the results of the measurements With wires with the results obtained with the apparatus of the H.oyal .Academy of Sciences, the following is observed: 1. Iu the con11ectiou of A' B' with AB errors may exist which could affect our lrnowledge of the length of the former. 2. 'l'he point B was coverrnl with dirt, and the stone in which it was n1arked mib"ht have been disarranged in the dumping. 3. The point .rl is in a somewhat small stone on the surface of the ground, and has for that reason an insecure position. It has been observed that this stone was raised from its position by a heavy wa~~on Passi11g over it and that it afterwards foll back into its place. 4. The heads of the iron bolts in the top of the, terminal stones a.re rusted, so that it is difficult to' see distinctly the drill holes which mark A and B. The close agreement betw<ien thH measured and computed values of ~'L' 13 1 must be reg-arde(l in a certain degree as a happy accident, but, on the other hand, it must be said that the coincidence would 11ave been Cf)nally close it' the obstacles mentioned had not been met. Si11ce the above communication was matle to the Hoyal Academy of Sciences, in :i\'fay of last year, the experiments have been continued and certain changes in the apparatn8 have been mn<le. Therefore the ?escrijltion of the apparatus just given does not apply to the form uow
lU U!:\e,

164

·U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Among the experiences which ·have resulted from the recent experiments one at least is of importance; that is in regard to the question of a change in the lengths of wires during· a long period of time. The mean time in which the measurements of t.he comparator here referred. to were made was 18S3·0. The line was measured anew with the base apparatus of the Academy on September 3 and. 4, 1884, at which time complete comparisons were made with the standard. The length of the line showed siuce November 12, 1882, a decrease of 0·1rnm. The wires A, B, C, D, E, and P were again compared on September 4 and 5 (temp.=+ mo Celsius) arid once on :November 12 (temp.=+ 3°). The results are given below, except for A, which was injured. in the interim. In the period. from 1883·0 to 1884·8 all the wires were repeatedly unrolJed and. rolled.
Chnnge in length during 1·8 yoare.

mm.
B (brass)
1) (steel)

c

"

E , "
Ji' (brass)

+ +

-0·05 + 0·12 - 0·02 0·17 0·01

On the average, without and with regard to the signs, the changes · in the lengths were 0·07 111111 and + 0·046 111111 · The comparisons of September, 1884, were made by persous wl10 had. had no experience in work of this kind. 'J'he ueviatious in length or the apparent changes in length of the different wires fall unquestionably within or very near the probable error of the last-made comparisons.
THA:-iSLATOR's NoTE.-For later experience in tho use of steel tapes soo au oxhausth·o report uy Assistant H. 8. 'Voodward, Ap1rnndix 8, Coast aud Goodotic Sun·ey Report 1802, Part II.

APPENDIX No. 5-1893.
FUNDAMENTAL STANDARDS OP LENGTH AND MASS.*

While the Constitution of the United States authorizes Congress to "fix the stal1daru of weights and measures," this power has never been definitely exerchied, and but little legislation has been enacted upon the subject. Washington reg_arded the matter of sufficient importance to justify a special reference to it in his first annual message to Congress (.Tanuary, li90), and Jefferson, while Secretary of State, prepared a report, at the request of the House of Hepresentatives, in which he proposed (July, 1790) "to reduce every brancl1 to the decimal ratio already established for coins, and thus bring the calculation of the principal affairs of life within the arithmetic of every man who can multiply and divide." 'rhe consideration of the subject being again urged by ·washington, a committee of Congress reported in favor of Jefferson's plau, bnt no legislation followed. In the mean-. time the executive branch of the Government found it necessary to procure standards for use in the collection of revenue and other operations in which weights and measures were required, and the Troughton 82-inch brass scale was obtained for the Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1814, a platinum kilogramme arnl metre, by Gallatin, in 1821, and a troy pound from London in 1827, also hy Gallatin. In 1828 the latter was, by act of Congress, made the staudard of mass for the Mint of the United States, and, although totally unfit for such purpose, it has since remained the standard for coinage purposes. In 1830 the Secretary of the Treasury was directed to cause a comparison to be made of the standi1rds of weight and measure used at the principal cm1tom-houses, a.s a result of which larg·e discrepancies were disclosed in the weights and measures in use. The Treasury Department, being obliged to exeeute the constitutional provision that all duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the United States, adopted the Troug·hton scale as the standard of length; the avoirdupois pound, to be derived from the troy pound of the Mint, as the unit of mass. At the same time the Department adopted the wine
- - - - - - · " · - - · - - - - " " . ·-·-""
~This
""

- ··- ...

paper was first publishecl as Bulletin No. 26, 11nd is republished here to give it a more permanent form. Appended to it will be found a third edition of the Tables for converting Customary anu 'Metric Weightl! and Measures.

165

166

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC

SU~VEY.

gallon of 2:n cubic inches for liquid measure and the Winchester busbel of 21.')0·42 cubic inches for dry measure. In 183G the Secretary of tbe Treasury was authorized to cause a complete set of all weights and measures adopted as standards by tbe Department for the use of custom-houses and for other purposes to be delivered to the governor of each State in the Union for the use of the Stat'es, respectively, the object being to encourage uniformity of weights and measures throughout the Union. At this time several Stat.es had adopted standards differing from those used in the Treasury Department, but after a time these were r~jected, and finally nearly all tlrn States formally a1lopted, by act of legislature, tbe standards which had hcen put in their hands by the National Government. Thus a good degree of uniformity was secured, although Congress had not adopted a stantlanl of mass or of length, other than for coinage purposes, as already described. The next and in many respects the most important legislatfon upon the subject was the act of Jnly 28, 18fi6, making the use of the metric system lawful throughout the United States a111l delining the weights and measures in common use in terms of the units of this system. This was the 1ir::;t general legislation upo11 the subject, and tbe metric system was thus the first, and thus far t11" only, system made generally legal throughout the country. In 1875 an international metric convention was agreed upon by seventeen Governments, iuclmling the United States, at which it was undertaken to establish autl maintain at common expense a permanent international lmreau of weights and measureH, the first object of \vhich shoultl be the preparation of a new international standard metre and a new international standard kilogramme, copies of which should be made for distributio11 among the contributing Goverurne11ts. Since the orga11ization of the Bureau, the United States has regularly contributed to its support, and in 1889 the copies of the new iutemational prototypes were ready for distribution. This was effectecl by lot, and the United States received metres Nos. 21 and 27 a11d kilogrammes Nos. 4 and 20. 'flie metres and kilogrammes are made from tlie same material, wliich is au alloy of platinum with 10 per cent of iridium. On January 2, 1890, the seals which had been placed on metre No. 27 and kilogramme No. 20 at the International Bureau of Weights and Measures, uear Paris, )Vere broken in the Cabinet room of the Execu- · tive Mansion by the Presitlent of the United States in the prese11ce of the Secretary of State and tlle Secretary of the Treasury, together with a number of invited guests. They were thus adopted as the 11ational prototype metre and kilogramme. The Trough ton scale, which iu the early part of the century had been tentatively adopted as a standard Of length, has long been recognized as quite unsuitable for such use, owing to its faulty construction and the inferiority of its graduation .. For many years, in sta11dartlizi11g length measures, recourse to copies of the imperial yard of Great Britain had

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

167

been necessary, and to tl10 copies of the metre of' the archives in the office of weights and measures. Tile standard of mass originally .selected was likewise un tit for use for similar reas<)ns, and had been practically ignored. The recent receipt of' the very accurate co1)ies of the International Metric Staudartls, which are constructed in accord "·ith the most advanced conceptions of modern metroloµ;y, e1mhles comparisons to lJC made directly with those standards, as the equations of the national prototypes are accurately known. It has seemed, therefore, that greater stability in weights a11d measures, as well as mnch 11igher accuracy in their comparison, can be secured by accepting the international prototypes as tbe fundamental standards of length a11d mass. It was doubtless the intention of Congress that this should be do11e when the international metric co11veution was entered into in 1875; otherwise there woul<l be 11othiug gained from the annual contrilmtious to its snpport which the Government has qonstantly ma<le. Snch action will also llave tlle great ail vantage of putting us iu direct relation in our weigllts and measures with all civilized natious, most of which have a(lopted the metric system fo1· exclusive use. 'l'lle practical effect upon our customary weights aud measures is, of ('OUJ'se, notlling. The most careful stn<ly of the relation of the yanl and the metre has faile<l Urns far to show that the relati011 as tletined by Uougress in the act of 18GG is in error. 'J'he pound as there delined, iu its relation to the kilogramme, differs from the imperial llOUJ1d of Great Britain by uot more - than one part in one hundre1l thousand, au error, if it be so called, wbich utterly vanishes iu comparisou with the allowances in all ordinary trausactions. Only the most refined scientific research will demand a closer ap1n·oximation, nu<l in scientific work t11e kilogramme itself is now universally use<l, botll in this country aml in England.* In view of these facts, and the absence of auy material normal standar<ls of customary weights anrl measures, the Office of Weights and l\Ieasures, with the approval of the Scci;etary of the 'l'reasury, will iu tlle future regard the International Prototype Metre nnd Kilogramme as fundamental Htandards, a111l t11e customary units-the yard an<l the pound-will be derived therefrom in accordance with the Act of July 28,
· NoTE.-Rcforeuco t.o tlrn act of 1H66 reH11lt8 int.ho 1·Htabli8hnrnnt of tho following:
J;'q11alio11·.

1 ~·a.rd;=

BGOU
3

nil7 metre.

1 }>Ollml nvoir1lu11ois

= !.!·20.W · 1 l,g,
2·.-:.i~62 kg., clifforing from

A more prooiHo val no of the Euglish po11111l :t\·oinlnpois iM

the nhovc b~· about ouc part in 0110 huu<lrell thousand, unt the oquntion established by law is 1111thcwutly accurate for nil oruiuary convcrRio11H. As already stn.to1l, in work of liigh procis1on tho kilogrammo is uow all but universally used 11U1l 110 conversion is requirnd.

168

U. :;. uOAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

1866. Indeed, this course has been practically forced upon this Office for several years, but it is considered desirable to make tliis formal announcement for tlie information of all interested in tl1e science of metrology or in measurements of precision. T. c. l\fENDENIIALL, Superintendent of Standard lVeigltts an<l 1lfcasures. Approved: J. G. CARLISLE, Secretary of the 'l'reasury. APRIL 5, 1893.

[United States CoasL 111111 <i<·o1lctic Surrny.-Olllco of Stauilnr<l .\lomlcnhnll, Su1ierlutcnucut.]

""oi~ht·

n1ul ::\[ensures-'£. C ·

TABLES FOR CONVElt'l'ING CUS1'0iYIAUY AND ::\IE'l'ItIC WEIGHTS AND l\IEASURES. OFFICE OF S'l'Ai'/UAlrn \VEIGH'l'8 ANU -'\[EASUirns,

lVashiugton, I>. 0., .March 21, 1894. The yard in use in the United States is equal to ~-f.H of the metre. Tl..te troy pound of the mint is the United States standard weight for coinage. It is of brass of unknown density, and therefore not r,iuitable for a standitrd of mass. It was tlerivccl from the British standard troy pound of 1758 by direct comparison. The British avoirdupois pound was also derived from tho latter and co11tai11s 7,000 grains troy. 'l'he grain troy is therefore the same as the grain avoirdupois, and the pound avoirdupois in use in the United States is equal to the British pound. 2·20462234 pounds avoirdupois = l kilogramme.

In Great Britain the legal metric equivalent of the imperial gallon is
4·54346 litres, and of the imperial bushel 3G·3477 litres.

The length of a nautical mire, as given below, is ti.mt adopted by the United States Coast Survey many years ago, and defined as the length of a minute of arc of a great circle of a sphere whose surface is equal to the surface of the earth (the Clarke sphero,id of 1866).
foot 0·304801 metre, 9·4840158 log. fathom = I ·829 metres. l Gunter's chain 20·1168 metres. I 'square statute mile o= 259·000 hectares. I nautical mile 1853·25 metres. I avoirdupois pound 453·5924277 g-rammes. I kilogramme. 15432 ·35639 grains
l

1

=

REPO.td' FOR 1893· -PART II.
TableB fo1· conve1·ti119 'United States weights and measures.
[Cuatomary to metric.) J.INEAR
Inches. :llillimctres.

169

I vee2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

t.

Metres.

j Y11rds.
I_~.

Metres.

Miles.
J

Kilometres.
J ·6o935 3·21869 4·82804 6·43739 8·04674 9·65608 11 ·26543 12·87478 14·48412

- ------·--- -

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

25 ·4001 50·8001 76·2002 101·6002 ,27·0003 152·4003 177·8004 203:2004 228·6005

0·304801 0·609601 0·914402 I ·219202 I ·524003 I ·828804 2·133604 2·438405 2·743205

I

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

0·914402 I ·828804 2·743205 3·6576o7 4·572009 5·486411 6·400813 7·315215 8·229616

2 3 4 5 6 7 8

9

------·
SQUARE.
Square inches.

Square

I
1

I

Squn.re

Square

i

Square

Square

centimetres.: feet.

decimetres.; yards.

metres.

I / Acres.
i

Heclllres.

--'---·-··------·
2 3 4 6 7 8 9. 6·452 12·903 19·355 25 ·807 32·258 38·710 45 ·161 51 ·613 58·065

·--------

--------2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0·4047 0·8094 1·2141 l ·6187 2·0234 2·4281 2·8328 3·2375 3·6422

!

5

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

9·290 18·581 27·871 37·161 46·452 55·742 65·032 74·323 83·613

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

0·836 1·672 2·508 3·344 4·181 5·017 5·853 6·689 7·525

-------CU'JllC.

Ii~~1i:~~l

!

centimetres.
..

Cubic

Cubic feet.

Cubic metres.

Cubic yards.
I

Cubic metres.

flushels.

Hectolitres.

--------·----2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 16·387 32·774 49·161 65·549 81 ·936 98·323 114.710 131 ·097 147·484

--·---------·--·-

' ·--------2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0·765 l "529 2·294 3·058 3·823 4·587 5·352 6·116 6·881
I

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

0·02832 0·05663 0·08495 o·u327 0·14158 0·16990 0·19822 0·22654 0·25485

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

o·35239 0·70479 1·05718 l "40957 1 ·76196 2·11436 2·46675 2·81914 3·17154

CAI' .AcrrY.

~:;,---l'l-fi-ll-ili-tr-cs ___ FJ~~~ -dram·.

1

...

--,------------Litres, Gallons.

ce~~i~~~~~~s. ounces.

Millilitres. 'Qua.rts.

------------ . ------ - - - - - - - - - - - - - \
I 2

_________ ,
1
2

Litres.

3·70
I 1 ·09

I

7·39

2

3
4

6 7 8 9

5

14·79 18·48 22·18 25·88 29·57 33·27

3 4 6

5
7

8 9

29·57 59·15 88·72 118·29 147 ·87 177·44 207·02 236·59 266·16

I

2

3 4 5 6 7 8 9

0·94636 1·89272 2·83908 3·78543 4·73179 5·67815 6·62451 7·57087 8·51723

3"78543 ·35630 15·14174 18·92717 22·71261 26·49804 30·28348 34·06891 '
II

n1087

3 4 6 7 8 9

5

'

'170

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY. Tables fo1· converting United States weights and measures-Continued.
[Customary to metric.] WEIGHT.

-Grains.

Milli·
grammes.

Avoirdu pois Grammes. ounces. -----

IAvoirdupois
pounds.
I

grammes.

Kilo·

Troy

ounces.

Grammes.

-· ! .. __ .. ______ --- ..- . .
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 o·45359 0·90719 I ·36078 I ·81437 2·26796 2·72156 3·17515 3·62874 4·08233
-··-·--------

--·--------·

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

64·7989 129·5978 194 ·3968 259·1957 323·9946 388·7935 453'5924 518·3914 583·1903

'

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

28·3495 56·6991 85 ·0486 I 13·3981 141 ·7476 l'.'0'0972 198·4467 226·7962 255 ·1457
·- · · · - -

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

31·10348 62·20696 93 '3!044 124·41392 155·51740 186·62088 217·72437 248·82785 279·93133

I

;

-

----------·

By the concurrent action of the Jffincipal Governments of the world, an International Bureau of "\Vcights and l\leasurcs l1as been established uear Paris. U udcr the din'ctiou of the International Committee, two ing-ots were cast of pure pfatinum-iridium iu tbe proportion of' 9 parts of the former to 1 of the latter metal. From 0110 of these a certain number of kilogrammes were prepared; from the other a dcfiuitc number of metre bars. 'l'hese istandards of wcigl1t a11d length were iutercompared without preference, and certain 011es were Helected as internatioual prototyve standards. The others were distributed by lot, in September, 188\l, to tlic different Governments, aud arc called national prototype stantlar<ls. Those apportioned to the United States were received in 1890 and arc in the keeping of U1is office. The metric systpm was l1!galizcd in the United States in 18flG. The Intcrn(ltional Standard Metre is derived from the :Metre des Archives, and its length is defined by the distance between two lines at oo centigrade on a platinum-iridium bar deposited at the International Bureau of "Weights and J\lcasm·c8. The International Stau<lard Kilogramme is a mass of platinum-iridium deposited at the same place, an<l its weight in va.cuo is the same as that of the Kilogramme des Archives. The litre is equal to a cubic decimetre, and it is measured by the quantity of distilled watm· which, at its maximum density, will couutcrpoise the standard kilogramme in a vacuum, the volume of such a quantity of water beiug, at:i nearly as has been ascertained, equal to a cubic decimetre.

REPOR1' l!'OR 1893-P.A.RT II.
Tables fol' co11vertin!f United Stales weights ancl
[Motric to cuetomnry.]
LINEAR
Yunls.
moasttr~8.

171

I Kilo·
1

metres.

!llilcs.

! --- - - - -- ----- !

I

I

I

2

I

I 5
6 7 8 9

39·3700 78·7400 u8·1100 157 ·4800 196·8500 236·2200 275 ·5900 314·9600 354·3300
---

3·28083 6·56167 9·84250 13·12333 16·40417 19·68500 22·96583 26·24667 29·52750

2

3
4

5
6

7 8 9

1·09361 I 2·187222 3·280833 4 ·374444 5·468056 6·561667 7 ·655278 8·748889 9·842500

I I

2 3

116
7 8 9

0·62137 1·24274 1·86411 2·48548 3·10685 3 ·728212 4·34959 4·97096 5 ·59233

!

I

I

I

---·-------- --

-------------- - - - - SQUARE.
i

-------·--'

I

) Squn.rc

l metres.

· Cl!Jlll-

Square.

inchBs.

j Squnrc metres.

S4unrc feet.

Squnrc

I metres.
I

Square yards.

I
1

Hel'tares.

Acres.

I
I

!2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ·196 2·392 3 ·588 4·784 5·980 7·176 8·372 9·568 10·764
I

i
6

5

7 8 9

0·1550 0·3100 0·4650 0·6200 0·7750 0·9300 1 ·0850 1·2400 1 ·3950

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

10·764 21 ·528 32·292 43 ·055 53·819 64 ·583 75·347 86·111 96·875

r
2

I

3
4

6 7 8 9

5

2·471 4·942 7·413 9·884 12 ·355 14 ·826 I 7 ·297 19;768 22·239

·- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _j

Ct::llIC . Cubic ccntimetres.

Cu hie ind1es.

dcd/metres.

~ Cul>ic

--I
Cubic inches.

-·· .

-

-· - ------- ---Cuhic feet.

Cubic
metres.

I Cubic /metres.
2

Cubic yards.

---·----I

-·--

2 3 4

5
6

8 9

7

0·0610 0·1220 0·1831 0·2441 0·3051 0·3661 0·4272 0·4882 0·5492

1
2

3 4

5
6

i

i

- -----------·---

-- ----.

I

8 9

7

61 ·023 122·047 183·070 244·094 305·117 366·140 427·164 488·187 549·210

I

2 3 4

5
6 8 9
-·

7

35·314 70·629 105 ·943 141 ·258 176·572 211·887 247·201 282·516 317·830

3 4

5
6 8 9

7
··-·-

1 ·308 2 -fH6 3·924 5·232 6·540 7·848 9·156 10·464 u·771 -----

- ------· -·--

-----·

172

U.

s,

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

'l'ables for converting United States weights and 'measures-Continued.
[Metric to customary.] CAPACITY.
Millilitre~ or Fluid

~~~~f-

drams.

Centi- Fluid litres. ounces.

Litres. Quarts.

R:r~~:

Ga!Jons.

1tl~;~~.-

Bushels.

metres.
~-----

l

l

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

0·27 0·54 0·81 1·08 1·35 1 ·62 l ·89 2·16 2·43

2 3 4 5
6

7 8 9

0·338 0'676 1 ·014 1 ·353 1·691 2·029 2·367 2·705 3·o43

I

1 ·0567

l

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

2'II34 3·1700 4·2267 5·2834 6·3401 7·3968 8·4535 9·5101
WEIGHT.

2 3
4

w·5668

2·6417 5·2834 7·9251

I

2

3
4 5 6 8 9

5 6 7 8 9

13·2085 15·8502 18·4919 21 ·1336 23'7753

7

2·8377 5 ·6755 8·5132 I I ·3510 14·1887 17·0265 19·8642 22·7019 25 ·5397

I

Milli· grammes. Grains.
-----l
~-----------

Kilogrammes. Grains.
--·-··

Hecto- Ounces Kilo- Pounds avoiravoirgrammes. dupois. grammes. du pois. ------ -------- l

2 3 4 5 6 8 9
- -

7
---

0·01543 0·03086 0·04630 0·06173 0·07716 0·09259 o·w803 o·rn346 0·13889
---

I

2 3 4 6 7 8 9

5

15432·36 30864·71 46297·07 61729·43 77161 ·78
925~)4·14

2 3 4 5 6 8 9

I
I
~-

108026·49 123458·85 138891 ·21
Milliers

7

3·5274 7·0548 w·5822 14 ·1096 17·6370 .21·1644 24·6918 28·2192 31 ·7466

I

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

2·20462 4·40924 6·61387 8·81849 I i ·0231 I 13·22773 15·43236 17·63698 19·84160
Ounces

avoirdupois. or tonnes. --------- - -------- ______ ,,

Quintals.

Pounds

__

Pounds Kiloavoirdupois, grammes.

I

troy.

---~-----

---------2204·6 4409·2 6613·9 _8818·5 IJ023 'I i3227·7 15432·4 17637·0 19841 ·6
I

I

2

3 4 5 6 8 9

7

220·46 440·92 661 ·39 881 ·85 II02'Jl 1322·77 1543·24 1763·70 1984 ·16
-

I

I

2 3 4 6 7 8 9

5

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
-

32·1507 64 ·3015 96·4522 i:28·6030 16o·7537 192·9044 225·0552 257 ·2059 :>89·3567

APPENDIX No. 7-1898.
m' ELECTRICAL MEASURE.

UNITS

Within but little more than a decade practical applications of electricity have developed with a rapidity unparalleled in the history of modern industries. Many millious of dollars of capital are uow invested in the manufacture of machinery and various devices for the production and consumption of electricity. As it has now become a commodity of trade, its measurement is a question of the highest importance both to the producer and consumer. Both the nomenclature of electrotechnics and the methods and instruments of measure are exceptionally precise and satisfactory, but there has been lacking·, up to· the present time, the very important aml essential element of fixed and invariable units of measure authoritatively adopted. Such units have long been in use among sdentiflc men, but the necessity for the establishment and lcgalizatil!l1 of practical units for commercial purposes became evident in the beginuiug of the recent enormous develop·ment of the applications of electricity. 'ro meet this universally recognized want, conferences ·and congresses of the ieading electrieiaus of the world lrnve lJeeu held at occasional intervals, the first being -the Paris C011gress of 1881. 'rhcse assemblages have been international in their character, for it was wisely determined in the beginning that the new units of measure should be international and, indeed, universal in their application. It was convenient to make them so, and it was important to thus facilitate iµternational interchange of machinery, instruments, etc. The United States was represented by ofticial delegates in the Congress of 1881, and also in subsequent Congresses in 1884. The difficulty of the material representation of some of the units of measure was so great at the time of holding these Congress~s that no satisfactory agreement as to all of them could be arrived at. Some recommendations were made, but they at no time received the unanimous support of those interested, an~ were admitted by all to be tentative in their character. During the past few years the advance of knowleuge and experience among electricians was such as to indicate that the time was ripe for the general adoption of the principal units of electrical measure. An International Co11gress of Electricians was 173

174

U. S. CO.AST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

arranged for, to meet in Chicago during the World's Columbian Expo· sitiou of 1893. In this congress the business of defi11i11g a11d naming units of measure was left to what was known as the "Chamber of Delegates," a body composed of those ouly who had been officially commissioned by their respective Governments to act as members of said chamber. The United States, Great Britain, Germany, and France were each allowed five ,delegates in the chamber. Other nations were represented by three, two, and m some cases 011e. The principal nations of the world were represented ·by their leadiug electricians, and the chamber embraced many of the most distinguished living representatives of physical science. The delegates representing the United States have reported to the Honorable the Secretary of State, under date of November u, 1893, giving the names and definitions of the units of electrical measure as unanimously recommended by the chamber in a resolution as follows:
ReBofrcd, 'l'hat the several GovernmentR represeutecl by the delegates of this International Congress of Electricians be, and they are hereby, recommenclecl to formally adopt as legal nu its of electrical measure the following: As 1i unit of reHistance, the international ohm, which is lmRed npon the ohm ec1nal to 10" unitR of resistance of the centiruetre-gramme-soeoncl Hystem of olectro-mngnotic units, and is represented by the resistance offered to an unvarying electric current by a column of mercury 1it the temperature of melting icn 14·4521 grammes in maas, ofa constant cross-sectional urea and of the lcnght of 106·3c 111 · As a unit of cnrront, tho inter11atlo11al ampcrt', which is one-tenth of the unit of current of the C. G. S. system of electro-magnetic units, and which is rew·escnted sufficiently well for prac~ical nse by tho unvarying current which, when passed through a solution of nitrate of sil\'er in water, ancl in accordance with 1tccompanying speciti!'utions, * deposits silver at the ruto of 0·001118 of a gramme per second.

*In the following BJHlCitication, the term silver voltameter means the arrungoment of apparatus by nw:ms of which an electric current is pasRecl through a solution of nitrate of silver in water. The Hih·er vol ta meter measures .the totul electrical quantity which has passed clnring tlw tiuw of the experiment, noel by uoting this time the time average of the currout, or if the current has boon kept constant the currout itself, ean bo cleduced. In employing the silver voltametor to measure currents of about one ampere, the following arrangements should be adopted: The knthode on which the silver is to ho deposited shoulcl take the form of a platinum bowl not less than tOrm in diameter ancl from 4cm to 5" 111 in clepth. The unocle should boa plate of pure silver some 30 square centimetres in area and 2m 111 or 3mm in thickness. This is supportecl horizontally in the licp1id near tho top of the solution by a platinum wire pussecl through holes in the plate at opposite corners. To prevent the disintegrated silver which is formccl on the anocle from falling onto the knthode the anocle should be wrappe·l ronucl with pure filter paper, securecl nt the back with sen.ling \Vnx. The li1p1icl shonlcl comlist of u neutral solntion of pure silver nitmte, containing ahout 15 partH hy weight of the nitrate to 85 parts of water. The re1;ista11cc of tho vo!tumeter chauges somewhat as the current passes. To prevent these changeH hnviug too grci1t an effect on the current Home resistance beRiclcR t.hnt of the voltnmetcr 11ho11l1! be inHtirt111l in the circuit. The total metallic resistance of the circuit shonlcl not bo Jess than 10 ohmR.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

175

As a unit of electro-motive force, the ·infernationlll volt, which is the electro-motive force that, steadily applied to a comluctor whoso resistance is ouo international ohm, will prodnce a current of onn intornutiunnl amp!·re, and. which is rnprescnted sufficiently well for i·rnctical uBe liy +~~~of tho electro-motive forco between the poles or electrodes of the voltaic cnll known as Clark's cell, at a temperature of 15° C., and prepare<l in the rlmnner d<1scribed in the necompanying specification.* As a umt of quantity, thn illler11atio11al l!o11lo111li, which iH the 111111.utity of electricity transferre<l by a cnrrent of 0110 iutcrnational nmpl're in oue second. As a unit of capacity, tho illfcr11ational fa1·a<l, which is the capacity of a condenser charged to n liotential of oll<l inter11atio11al volt by one interrnttional eoulomb of electricity. As a uuit of work, tho joule, which is eqnal to 107 nnits of work iu tho C. G. S. system, and which is represonte<l sufficiently weir for practical use by tho energy expendetl in one soco111l b~· au internationnl :11np!'1'e in an international ohm. As a unit of iinwer, the 1rntt, which is equal to 107 units of p.nrnr in tho C. G. S. system, mul which is roprosonted Rnllieicntly woll for practical 11He hy the work done at tlrn rate of ono jonhi per Hecon<I. As the unit of induction, the hc111",11, which is tho in<luct.ion in a circuit when tho eloctro-mot.i\·o force i111l11ce<l in this circuit is ono intomationnl volt, while tho inducing current varies at tho rnt<i of 0110 nmpi'.lro por second.

Besides the fact that the Congress in which this important and far. reaching action was taken was held in the United States, our country ha~ been honored by the action of the Chamber of Delegates in placing in the list of the. illustrious names whieh are to be perpetuated in the nomenclature of electricity that of our countryman, Joseph Henry, whose splendid contributions to science, made about sixty years ago, have only in recent ~-ears met with full recognition. For these and other reasons it is extremely desirable that our Government should be among the first, if not the first, to adopt tho recommemlations of the Chamber. To make the use of these units obligatory in all parts of the country will require an act of Congress, but in the absence of that it is within the power of tho Secretary of tlw Treasury to approve their adoption for use in all Dcpartmeuts of the Government. This, indeed, is precisely the course long ago followed in i·efereuce to the ordinary weights and measures of commerce and trade. Congress has never enacted a law fixing the value of their 'units, but the Secretary of tlie Treasury \Vas authorized to establish and construct standards fbr use in the various Departments of the Government. Uniformity has followed on account of t11e universal adoption of these standards by the several States. 'l'he Government is itself a large consumer of electricity and electrical machinery, and for its own protection it is important that units of measure be adopted. With the approval, therefore, of the Honorable the Secretary of the Trensury, the formal adoption by the Office of Starnlard Weights and :\feasures of the names and values of units of
- - - - - - · - - - - - - · · ----4·------·---·A committee, consisting of l\feHSl'!I. Jfolmholtz, Ayrton, an<l Carlrnrt, was a11pointecl to prepare speciflcntiomi for tho Clark coll. Their report has not yet been reooivetl.

17'6

U. S. COAST A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

electrical measure as given above, the same being in accord with the recommendations of the International Congress of Electriciuus of 1893, is hereby announced. T. 0. MENDENHALL, Superintendent U: S. Coast and Geodetic S1trvey and of Standard lVeights and Measures. Approved: J. G. CARLISLE, Secretary of the Treasury.

APPENDIX No. 8-1893.
[JN TWO PARTS.]

PART I.-A HISTOIUCAL ACCOUNT OF THl~ BOUNDARY LINE BETWEEN THE STATES 01'' PENNSYLVANIA AND DELAWARE.

By W. C. HoDGJmss, AsRistant. Submitted for publication December 1, 1893.

The history of the boundary line between the States of Delaware and Pennsylvania possesses a peculiar interest to the antiquarian, the historian, and the engineer; and the consideration of its origin carried to its ultinrnte sources leads us far back into the colonial history of our country, to a period antedating uot 011ly this particular boundary line bnt even the existence and very name of the great State of Pennsylvania itself, of which province, under the proprietary government, Delaware for nearly a century formed a part. · A brief outline of the more important historical events which have left their impress in one way or another upon the long-continued controversy over the boundaries of J)elaware, a coutrover.sy which has extended over more than two centuries and of which the last sounds havo hardly yet been heard, may not be uninteresting nor out of place in this connection as serving to. explain the somewhat intricate and frequently obscure causes which have resulted in the conditions under which this circular boundary bas at last been marked by permanent monuments. The earliP.st settlement by Europeans within the limits of the present State of Delaware appears to have been ma<le by a Hollander named De Vries and a party of his countrymen, who landed in 11131 upon a tract of land near Cape Henlopen which had been purchased from the Indians two years before by another IIollan<ler named Godyn. De Vries called his settlement Swaauendael, and the creek on which it was situated he called the lloornkill, after tbe city of Hoorn, in Holla.ud. Swaanendael was not far· from the present town of Lewes, in Sussex Oonnty, and the Hoornkill was, no doubt, the present Lewes Oreek. S. Ex. 19, pt. 2-12 177

178

U. S. CO.A,ST AND GEODE1'IC SURVEY.

The name Hoornkill, it may be remarked, seems to have become more wi<lely known than that of Swaanendael, and subsequently gave a name to the county under various corrupted forms, as Hoarkill, Horekill, or Whorekills (afterwards called New Dale, and theu Sussex). After establishing his colony De Vries returned to Holland to secure more settlers. Upon his return the followiug year he was horrified to ilnd that the Indians had attacked the settlers, about thirty in number, had put them all to death, and had destroyed the village. 'l'his tragic event, according to the best information attainable, seenu; to have been due to the killing by a white man of au Indian who had torn down a piece of metal ornamented with the Dutch arms from a post on which it had been placed. There are various versions of this story, none of which are perhaps quite reliable, as they depend on tlie accounts of the Indians handed down by the Dutch. It appears, however, that De Vries thought th.e killing not without some good reason, for he made 110 attempt to punish the Indians, though he parleyed with them and induced one of them to visit his ship and to give an account of the massacre. 'l'his unfortunate affair, however, discouraged him and his party, and after a brief trip up the river they sailed to Virginia and then to New .Amsterdam (New York), preferring to relinquish tlieir dreams of wealth from a new colony on the Delaware rather thall face the probability of encountering such savage foes; and for many years the Dutch maue no further attempt to settle 011 the Delaware shore. It might, therefore, appear that the incident thus abruptly closed could have no bearing upon the course of future settlements uor enter as a factor into the question of a boundary line between colonies subsequently established by the English . .As will he seen later, however, it proved to be an event of much moment in the conflict between the opposing claims of the proprietary governments of Pennsylvania and Maryland. In the year 1632 King Charles l of England granted byroyal letters . patent to Cmcilius Calvert, second Baron Baltimore, a great tract of country on the Atlantic coast between the parallels of 330 and 400 of north latitude. This grant, which the King named Terra Marire, or Maryland, in honor of the Queen, Henrietta Maria, embraced not only the present area of Maryland, but the whole of Delaware aud a considerable portion of the present State of Pennsylvania. The whole of this grant, however, was included within the tract already granted by King James I for the Colony of Virginia under three charters, of 1606, 1609, and 1612, respectively. In the first charter the boundaries of Virginia are thus described:
* * * Situate, lying. or being all along the sea coasts, between four and thirty degrees of northerly latitu1le from the equinoctial line, und five and forty degrees of the same l:i.titncle, uncl ia tbe main land blltwecn the Rame four and thirty n.nd five and forty degrees and the i~lunds tlrnreuuto adjaceut, or within one huudrcu miles of the coast thereof. · · *

REPORT :POR 1893-PART II.

179

But the territory thus granted to the Loudon and Bristol companies was materially reduced by King James himself in 1630, when he granted a charter to the Plymouth Company for all the territory between the fortieth and forty-eighth parallels, under the uame of New England. In this charter we read:
We therefore * · · du grant, ordain, and ostaltlish that nil that Circuit, Continent, Precincts and' Limitts in America lying an<l being in Bronclth from Fourty Degrees of Northerly Latitude from tho Equinoctial Line, tu Fourty eight Degrees of the said Northerly Latitutle und in length by all the Breadtll aforesaid throughout tho :Mn.inc Land from Sea to 8ea-with all tho SeaM, Rh·er~, l!ilands, Crookes, Iuletts, Ports and Havens within the Degrees, Precincts and Limit ts of tho said Lutitudo uod Longitude shall he the Limitts, und Bounds, nncl Precincts of tho second collonyantl ~o tllci end that the said Territoryes· ruay horeafttlr be more particularly and certainly known and distinguished, our \Vill nnd Plensurn is, that the same shall from henceforth be nominated, termed n.nd culled by tho name of Now England in Amori6n..

This brought the charter limits of Virginia dQwn to the fortieth parallel. But there was much dissatisfaction with the management of the Virginia colony by the chartered company, and in 1624 a writ of quo warranto was issued against it arnl the charter was forfeited. So Virginia became a Crown Colony, and its lands were subject to the royal authority. Sir George Calvert, the first Lord Baltimore, had receivetl' a grant of land in Newfoundland called Avalon, but finding the climate unfavorable he visited- Virginia. Fiuding that the part of Virginia north and east of the Potomac and Chesapeµke was still unsettled, he returned to England and induced the King to grant him this territory in place of the undesirable Avalon. Before the charter was·issued· the Hrst Lord Baltimore died, but the charter was confirmed aud issued to his sou, as already noted. In this charter the boundaries of l\:1aryland are, in part, described as follows:
'" " " All thnt part of tho Peuinsulu or Chersunosc, lying in ·parts of America, between tho ocoau on tho eust nml the Ifa~· of CheHa1rnuko uu tlrn weHt; cli\ idocl from tho residue thereof by a right Jiue drawn from tho promontory or hendlancl called \Vatkins Point, situate upon tho bay ufurosnitl, 11oar the river Wighco on tho west unto tho main ocean on tho east, athl hotwecn thitt bountlary ou the south uuto that P.art of tho Bay of Delaware ou the north, which Jieth nuc.ler'tho fortieth degree of north lutitUtlo from the equinoctial, whoto New England is tormiuated; and all the tract of that land within the motes unt!orwrittou (that iH to say), imssiug from the Saicl bay, cnllecl Delaware Bay, iu a ri~ht liuo, hy tho clcigrce uforesaicl, nnto the true meridian of tile first fountain of tho ltiver l'uttowmnok; " · "

In all of these successive grants we 'notice a gradual reduction of the areas originally so hLYishly distributed by English royahy. By the Plymouth charter of Hi20 Virginia lost a vast territory, which ·included the present New England States, New York, New Jersey, and the g-reater part of Pennsylvania, not to mention Can:ula and the great West. Next, by the charter of Hi32, Orecilius Ua.lvert obtained another considerable portiou of the imperial domain once included within the couftues of Virginia.

180

U. S. COAST .A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

So, when we find, as we shall a little later, that the barons of Baltimore themselves suffered a half century afterwards from this same trimming process, applied for the benefit of newer colonists on the Delaware, it will seem tuat 11erhaps they had little reason to complain on grounds of equity, lwwever seriously tlie subsequent grants to James, Duke of York, and to William Penn may have infringed upon the letter of the Maryland charter, though legally the King might divide Virginia, as being a royal colony at the time. The Calverts do not seem to have appreciated, until it was too late, the possible importance of the Delaware coast of the peninsula, and made no attempt to plant settlements there. Had they done so, it is not at all likely that there would. be any State of Delaware to.day. They })referred to plant their new colony on the shor.es of Chesapeake Bay. But the English were not alone in their attempts at colonization on this coast. As we have already seen, the Dutch had made an abortive attempt at· colonizing the Lower Delaware and were firmly seated on the Hudson or North. Uiver. Tliey bad also'a trading post called Fort Nassau on the eastern bank of the Delaware, near the present site of Gloucester, N. J. The Swedish nation, then in the height of its power under the great King Gustavu8 Adolphus, also felt the influence of the fever for colonial aggrandizement which in the first half of the seventeenth century seems to l1ave swept over northern Europe. Considerable preparations were made in 1G27 for a Swe1Ush colony on the Delaware, but for some reason the project was not then carried into execution. A few years later, however, in th~ reign of the infant queen, Christina, the plan was again taken up by the celebrated Chancellor Oxenstiern, and in the year Hi38 a Swedish expedition sailed into Delaware Bay. The commander was Peter I\Ii11uit (or Menewe), a Hollander, who had previously served tbe Dutch West India Company in America. The Swedes at once purchased from the Indians the whole west bank of the Delaware from Cape Henlopen to Trenton Falls. A part of their territory was included within tlle former purchase by Godyn, so swiftly abrogated by the massacre at Swaanendn.el. The whole of it was also included in the territory claimed by the Euglish by right of discovery and disposed of by the grauts to the Loudon and Plymouth colonies and to Lord Baltimore. The E11glish, however, had tolerated the Dutch settlements within the charter limits of New England, and the Swedes claimed that King Charles I had renounced in their favor, in 1634, any claims that England might have to that country by right of discovery. Even if this be so, it can hardly be sµpposed that King Charles meant to include in any such renunciation the territory of Maryland granted only two years before to 11is faithful servaqt, Lord Baltimore. This claim on the part of the Swedes affords another proof that neither they nor the English then recognized any right of the Dutch to the western bank of Delaware River and Bay.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

181

The newcomers selected a site ab1mt where Wilmington uow stands au cl lm1lt tbmnselYes a fort, which tl1<'y named Christina, after the little <luee11 of Sweden. They also named the little river before them the Christina Kihl, a ua1ne still retaiued in the slightly altered Christiana Creek. 'fhe Dutch governor of New Amsterdam, who claimed the country between the Connecticut and the Delaware, immediately protested against the Swedish settlement as an interference with the rights of the Dutch West India Company. The Dutch were too weak, however, to ofter forcible resistance, and for nearly twenty years the Swedish settlements grew and prospered. But as their numbers and trade increased the friction between the Swedes on the western and the Dutch on the m~steru bank of the Delawaro became constantly greater, each colony trying to monopolize the navigation of the river. In retal· iation for the Swedish prete1isions, the Dutch, in 1651, repurchased from some of the Indian; part of the s'wedish territory below Wilmington and built a post, which they called Fort Casimir, where Newcastle now stands. Tile Swedes, in their tum, crossed the Jersey shore, then part of New Netherlands, and built Fort Elfsborg, about 7 miles below l·'ort Casimir. The Swedes were driven out of this plu.ce, l~owever, by the swarms of' mosquitoes which made life almost unendurable. · In 1654 n. new Swedish governor, .John Olamlius Hising, arrived in the Delaware with a considerable number of colonists. One of his first acts was to compel the surrender of the Dutch at Fort Casimir, which he renamed the Fort of the Holy Trinity, on account of its having been captured on Trinity Sunday. 'fhe Dutch made no immediate reprisals, but having made thorough preparations the:y appeared in the Delaware at the end of August, 1655, under the redoubtable Governor Peter Stuyvesant. Their force of seven vessels and more than 600 armed men was more than a match for the Swedes, and landing between the Fort of the Holy 'rri11ity and Fort Ohristina they blocked communication between the two posts and reduced them in succession without any bloodshed. Thus the Swedish cliiims, snch as they were, passed by conquest to the Dutch, who also claimed that the old purchase of the lloornkill tract g·ave them title to the whole west bank, though that purchase was for 0 11ly 30 miles of coast at Cape Henlopen. But this conquest of the Swedes aud the subsequent increase of the Duteh power on the Delaware alarmed the Loi·d Proprietor of Maryland, who seems to have paid little.heed to the Swedish settlers, proba~ly deeming them easy to subject to his dominion in due course of tune. . In 1G59 Lord Baltimore sent instructions to Maryland"calling for an ~nquiry into the proceedings of the Dutch. A deputation was a.ccord· lllgly sent from Maryland to New Amstel, as Newcastle was then called, to 11otify the Dutch that they were unlawfully seated within the province

182

U. S. COAST AND GEODE1'IC SURVEY.

of his lordsbip. The Dutch officials paid little heed to the complaints of r.,ord Baltimore!s envoys, unbacked as they were by miJitary force, . though the spokesman of the party, Col. Nathaniel utie, is said to have delivered his message "in a'pretty harsh and bitter manner;" and the emba!Ssy came to nothing. Still the Dutch seem to liave been somewbat alarmed at Utie's proceedings, aud sent messengers to Govemor StuyTesant to inform him of the demands of Lonl Baltimore. Stuyvesant thereupon sent Augustine Hermen and Rosevelt \VaJdron to the authorities of .Maryland to try to arrange the matter. These Dutch ambassadors, upon being sllown the charter of 1G3~, immediately caught at the phrase "hactenus illculta:' in the preamble thereof and at once claimed tlui.t the charter specified that tlle lands granted to Lor(l Baltimore were only such as were then uncultivated and rnhabited only by certain tribes of savage Indians, and that the Dutch settlements on the Delaware antedated the cl1arter. Here for the first time attention was called to this weak point of Lord Baltimore's charte1: and the argument advauced which was later used with Huch persistence to tear the Delaware shore from Maryland. This matter will be further discussed in connection with the gra11ts to William Penn. The negotiations having come to nothing, Lord Baltimore complained to the Dutch \Vest India Company, in Burope, of the invasion of his dominious by the servants of the company. But this wealthy and powerful society, feeling secure iu the armed forces with wliich it occupied its settlements, took 110 notice of such appeals, and Baltimore, perhaps feeling that the logic of events at least was against him, seems to have made little effort, except occasional futile remonstrances, to clear his territory of the intruders. .Matters thus remained for sevt~ral years, neither side acknowledging the justice of the other's claims. But in 1GG4, as if in commentary on the theory that England recognized a tritling Dutch settlemeut a-8 a bar to an English grant, King Charles 11 granted to his brother, the Duke of York, all the territory bet\veen the Connecticut and Delaware rivers, although this region had been in the hauds of the Dutch for more than fifty years and although the two nations were then a.t peace. The Duke at once organized an cxpe(litiou, which was entirely successful iu its results, and New Xctherlands became an English province uuder the name of New York. The Duke of York's grant. was only to the east bank of the Delaware, and in that same year, 16<i4, he gTanted to Lord .Jolm Berkley and Sir George Carteret tlie whole of ~ew .Jersey, so that his proper territory did uot extend son th of New York. But by virtue of the conquest of the Dutch provinces generally the agents of the Duke appear to have exercised a sort of quasi jurisdiction over the Dutch settlements west of the Delaware. It does not appear tllat Lord Baltimore protested agaiust tltis state

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

183

of a1fairs; and it has been alleged that he forfeited hiR rights by 1mch omission. It is more likely, however, that he was goYerncd by motiYes of pru· dencc and policy. lie was no longer a favorite at court, and he may easily have surmised that he would fare ill, 110 matter how just his cause, in a controversy with a royal duke, the heir presumptive to the throne. At aU events, be seems to liave held amicable intercourse for several years witll his 11ew 11eighl)()rs on the Delaware. But in 1H'i3 the Dutch reconquered 1he province, and during the brief period of their rule, which lasted less than a year alHl a half, the Maryland authorities seized the opportunity to assert their territorial rights, and for that purpose sent an armed force against the settlement at lloornkill, which had been reestablished by the Dutch. In spite of this more formidable expedition no good results seem to have come to Lord Baltimore. In 1G74 the New :Netherlands were ag-ain surrendered to the English by the treaty of Westminster. 'l'he Duke of York, to perfect his title, obtained a new grant from the King for his former territories, and the Western shore of the Delaware seems to liave been considered his prop· erty by all but the 1\farylanders. Aud at this point we approach the origin of the boundary which is the subject of this sketch, a line of demareatiou which was fin;t formulated in the latter part of the seventeenth century, and which, after two hnrnlred years of uncertainty and inisconception, has at last been marked by euduring monuments in this last decade of the nineteenth century. On :;\-larch 4, lGSl, King Charles II granted to William Pc1111 a tract of land to the westward of the Delaware and to the north ward of Maryland. This grant wa.s in partial payment of claims against the Crown wllich Penn had inherited from his father, Admiral Penn. 'l'he negotiations preliminary to tlle issue of this charter were very protracted, extending· over several months, for the English Government l.iad begnn to realize the difficulties which might arise from the large aud rather indefinite grants which had been so common .. Besides, it was kn.own tllat the new province tor wllich Penn asked a cllarter was likely to interfere to some extent with the territorial rights of the Duke of York and of Lord Baltimore. And yet, curiously enough, in view of all this care, the conflict over the boundaries of Penn's territory was more bitter and more pro· tracted than any other similar trouble in the English colon1es. So it was ordered that tho Duke and the Lord Proprietor should be consulted. Lord Baltimore had no objections to a grant of land to Penn so long as his northern boundary of the fortieth parallel was respected, and the Duke of York expressed his willingness to yield his Claims to the allllost unsettled shore of' the upper Delaware provided he should have reserved to himself a sutncient distance between his town of :Newcastle and· the boundary of tl1e new province. He suggested that 20 miles Would be a convenient mul .suitable distance.

184

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Penn, however, was reluctant to be pushed so far np the Delaware, and upon his urgent representations to the Duke a distance of 12 miles was finally agreed upon. ~~t tllat time it was thought that the fortieth parallel crossed the Delaware between Newcastle and Cllester (then called Upland), and it was therefore decided that the southern boundary of Pennsylvania should follow a circular curve, at 12 miles distance from Newcastle, northward and wC1stward from the river Delaware, until it came to the fortieth parallel, and that it should then follow that parallel westward to its limit of longitude. '1'his description, which was soon found to be an impossible one, is th\1s expressed in the charter:
· · · and the 6aid Lands t.o bee bouncled on the ' # · South by a Circle clrawneut twelve mile!! distance from New Castle Northward uud Westward nnto the beginning of the fortieth degree of Northern Latitude, and thence by a. straight line Westward to the Limit of Longitude above mentioned.

As a matter of fact, the most northern part of a circle of 12 miles radius from Newcastle court-house is almost exactly on the pn,rallcl of 39° 50' north latitude, and it could, therefore, never intersect the parallel of 400. We here find the first mention of this singular boundary lme, almost unique in its circular shape. It is probable that both Penn and the Duke of York thougllt that this circular boundary between their dominions would soon strike the fortieth parallel and hence would be of small extent, and it is hardly likely that either of them then thought that it would afterwards play so important a part in the location of the boundary between Maryland and Pennsylvania. After granting the· charter t-0 Penn, the King commanded him and Lord Baltimore to arrange their boundary. Accordingly Lord Baltimore met Penn's kinsman and deputy, Markham, at Upland, in September, 1G81, when it was found by a precise observation that the fortieth parallel was several miles north of U pl:wd, instead of bei11g somewhat to the south of it, as· formerly supposed. No doubt both parties were somewhat surprised, but Lord Baltimore at once claimed tlle land to his charter limit of·forty degrees, wherever it might lie. Markham, on the other hand, declined to proceed with the delimitation of the provinces and reported the disappointing state of affairs to Penn, who was still in Bngland. This news made Penn, who had all along been dissatisfied with his province as being too difficult of access, still more anxious t-0 secure control of the shore of tho lower Delaware. He therefore importuned the Duke of York for the transfer to himself of the Duke's claims on that region. This land liad never been graut~d to the Duke, and his possession was only a sort of "squatter sovereignty." As a·historical writer has recently expressed it, "Penn asked for that which he knew to be within the boundaries of Maryland, and beyond the power of the Duke to grant." Penn had a great influence with

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

185

both the Duke of York and the King on account of the services of his father, Admiral Penn, under tl1e Duke himself, in the uaval wars with the I)utch. Lorcl Baltimore therefore had heavy odds agai11st bim. Probalily with the idea of strengthening his own claims by bolster: ing· the Duke's shadowy title, Penn obtaiued from York a quitclaim deed, dated August ::n, 1682, relinquishing to Penn any claim which the Duke might have to the province of Pennsylvania. It is worthy of note tl,1at Penn had been contented with his title under the charter of March 4, 1681, until, on the eve of bargaming with the Duke for part of Lord Baltimore's territory, he suddenly perceived that his own title was defectiYe through the Duke's claims. Three days later, August 24, 1682, the Duke g;we Penn two deeds of feoffment for the Delaware shore. '.l'he first of these conveyed the town of Newcastle and a 12-mile circle around the same. The second conveyed all the lands south of that circle as far as Cape Heu'lopen. l\Iuch doubt seems to have existed·, ho~ever, as to Penn's legal rights under these deeds. The Duke had no title of record. Bil'\ deeds to Penn were never confirmed by King Charles, who died soon afterwards, nor by King .James himself during his short and troubled reign. Much difficulty was thernfore experienced by Penn's agents in the collection of rents. After arrauging these matters Penn sailed from England to visit his province. He arrived at the Capes on October 24, Hi82 (0. S.), and first landed at Newcastle, afterw:mh; goiiig to Uplaucl, uow Chester. For nearly twenty years after the organization of the new government the lawmaking body was a joint assembly for the province of Pennsylvama and the "territories" of ''three l<)wer counties on the Delaware.'' But dissensions arose between the unite<l provinces, and Upon the revision by Peun in 17tn of tlie charter of government granted by him the territories insisted so strongly upon a separate assembly that Penn was obliged, to yielci to their wishes. In this same year, 1701, and 11erhaps in consequence of this legisla· tive division of the provi·nces, the circular boundary line between Chester and Newcastle counties was run out upon the ground under a Warrant from Penn. The work \vas done by Isaac Tailer, of Chester County, ancl'Thomas Pierson, of Newcm;tle County, under the direction of the county officials, iu N overnber, 1701. Their method of work is described in their field notes, 'vh1ch are iu the possession of the Histor' ical Society of Pennsylvania. According to their record, they began work at "the end of the horse dike" at Newcastle arnl ran a traverse to the 11orthward JVith compass and chain until they reached a poi11t which, from their computations, they supposed to be exactly 12 miles north of their starting point. By sorne mistake, however, they came out a mile or more too far to the west and about 2,000 feet too far from.Newcastle. The excess iu distance lUay have l>eeu due to their chain being too long, though the size of' the

186

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

error (2 feet to each chain} seems unlikely. ~tihis supposition is further borne out by the fact that" the curve actually run out by them had, as nearly as can be ascertained, a radiu~ of:' ~iout 13 miles instead of 12, as s4ould_Jiave been the case. The excess ofwesting nnght be accounted for,by supposing that they used the magnetic meridian as their standard instead of the true north, but the declination of so 30 1 west, observed at Philadelphia iu 1701, would have carried them a half mile or more still farther to the west. It is very likely that their compass needle was a poor one and that it was much affected by local attraction, which is very noticeable in the vicinity of the Brandywine. 'l'he extremity of the radius so determined fell upon land then occupied by a certain Israel Helm aud now owned by one Goodley, in a veculiar bend formed by Brandywine Creek. Tailer aud Pierson fouud tJiere a white oak tree, which they marked with twelve notches. They next laid off a line at right angles to their supposed true radius and marked on it the distance corresponding to tlle chord of 1 degree of a circle of 12 miles radius. tihis distance they computed to be 67 perches, a value sufficiently pre. cise for their purpose (more exactly, 67 .018), but if, as seeme likely, 'these measurements also overran, their chords were probably GS or 69 perches in length.· . One-half of tllis chord was laid off on the east si!le of their radius and the other half to the west. Then, starting from the eastern end of the first chord, they ran the curve to the Delawal'e River by successive chords of 67 perches, making a uniform deflection to the right of 1 degree by compass at the end of each chord. Forty-three chords brought them to the Delaware, where they found that their line struck the north side of a house close to the shore, then occupied by one Daniel Lamplugh. The surveyors then retraced their steps to the farm of .Jsrael Helm and iii a precisely similar manner ran their curve'to the westward from the first chord until they had completed 77 chords, which, tog·ether with . the 43 chords east ·Of their starting point, made up the total of 120 chords, or "two-thirds of a semicircle," called for by their iustructions. ·They note tlrnt their line ended at a stream, a branch of Christiana Creek, and that they "well marked" a hickory tree. Thil'l point can no longer be identified, but it was most likely in the present State of Maryland, to the westward or northwestward of the "triangular stone" on the boundary between Delaware and Maryland. The stream referred to was probably one called Persimmon Creek ou some recent maps. The course Qf the boundary line was indicated by notches cut in trees near which it ran. ' I It will be noticed that this boundary laid out by William Penn between two )lortions of his domain has no connection and little apparent relation to the boundary, betm·eu the lands of Penn and t110se of Lord Baltimore, though subsequently complicated and confounded with the surveys of the latter line. ·

l7.S.Coasta:rvLGeodeticSurveyReport;,,JB93_Parlll

No.6

U.S. Coast arul Geodetic

Surv~ £~port., 1893_

Pa.rt .11

No. 7

""""''~c71!Jurc eftfic Jfrczdlli.U,-,CfJ.ivUliifJ.JJdr.r'tqi tlu (ounlJ_ q/Wt77J(J]Jtfasffempj ef,. ---------)--- --------------------

~ ~ o"P:r.m~J~:lanr"o/
. q5 J.«ff"'

A W'ew(!iu.' '.-/'MJ!M:_'::'l'f!, ·

fffet~

(, q--A.Pwt . 1/lile .

I

I

lJ~

"t,,',,.'f&ug;,,~~

"."J

'~~

.~

Seu..& of
tJ]'/ke, ?llt°h
'2

--::r· .. __,='-'....""-"'-""'""'''"· ·...,,,,,,'""",.. ,.,,:;-~,, ........... '"'~--

_.,_,~_.;:;

9

~~

""~=::=,~~'""-

CJJJartrar&~ivtr·------ ·- - ----------------·

~~~(L~~~-m/?,v~~?~~~~i~(k)~
~£1; s

9/f.,1~ ~~A t/Y~ o-1..i~ t./IW.,
,z,:/~~

£</w-vina U/e,,Jfeu&u..,'5~:1/]~ ~g,ak,~ z.s ~ ~ e f/1l_on1R,J ( o l,~'l~tL~· w fo'i&cmn;::;z.thi?'!!:J~ 4 Jt / ~ <[{

~e~~-~~14f~ .::/§:t~tr~J! ~~ 1
ni:llii<J'onnv0;. 0

Stff'flt

·f';S-1-f.lll~

'tf?ihtwd/Jn #:£.

zr

~~
~,,,tile.

~qUe'll) g~~ ~£~VUL%'l,ando-(~li,: JUL fYd -8'lAJUlr~ ~ i~~ o-f--l:FU.· J lY 1rurnAil· J >' o I ~.,!! ~.

-k,g"~e~fhtinro£~,nfu3~ , ~-&tU-&~~~~ ~ u,j~;,!:2a ~~vts 8)9e~s 'f~~dr.:n,Jfii!}fu.i£1SJ]s~u.dtu .fJ~ ~ ~ nttl£ n~furo tflt'{j[:WVo-{j J!ern,_~ ·
·"f;? ·,

#aac~~ ~ UJ&· . 9'uefa1L
pa11;!f._ tif a,t~ 'Jow,n, ~ v_v(li~}J ~s-}~&o/j JnwWt/lJ/01 ~dkr fu i tk'J0 h11VL'a-fea1&1t :t?-en;J <Lfi!Ju/1-"UJ ct{:J. ~ tvllvu, ,W-t,4a-tJ- WUL 11.,;1no-i~J·f;l.~f:-!/) co1i,cl«&,tliht-in. ~~'i&-nu~fi;ou,,,9u,~ thk, ~v-e 71l.J,fu <:E'1f J:.atUe /i~-nf}(~n.,_ o/on>n~~ -1&f!d:wfJ"';# Yi1 ~
-+Re ~g1~l-lllo1~ ee afJ' ~?!
t:te 1uxf &f s ~o:v-w !i; +finA:,0%_~1L~c*"~:(_/,? /w-ef"L-.e,f!lde.s /l;{kn;Y 8:X-"t~ nL+fuLc(-to0t~ tfie

6JE~a;u, b, ~~~ '?'rlt~~(~~ o/y<Jt~t/J/.cnfl! /}OJ h 11~~ · d?trm-':JI &:::±:_·till m~ ~~uif/2 ~c; ~~~11~~#~
u~~c/d?e~fo!lI:MIUXlJ~~ 07UTl-i:,~~a~k~~b, ~~u9:f? <Jf~~fils~· -~of~n~eLve rJtUfes ~a~ .tla £~11t +Ra~i.o t«:~J~~;{J~ l &J:~9J::A~n,~ '(t~ .~ 8s' fhk~,fo S{efo~n ~o cls~x~ t;;t:~ . ~li?S)-&~a~~1aA~~-~41£d, Jlk~ifkf-tf1:'-nro~~cr/.~'J:t~·fV1U~JB,~fp~~,t/,,~ ~'~ · ;~-:;J., c-/ l'f/!lcfzAR we~~h-u;,,,, di~ "'T:} s~.i«l'-S af -dt1, g o{;t ~ ~~ ~';} 'l!lc~g«-fl~~:fR-bu-l&nl":f::,i b, a 'Wir& o_al 9~ta1th':J tv-tilci,J;ei~,e t/lo-tct~s,fl{~EJ-1~ri flr'/ik ~e 1 c-/%t-a1SJ!~ ~l fri,/hlfan~ o-f.if.wet!/Uf,,n ~fo-tn-l~S 9itllde. Ofl C/bel!J{a1-,, f!i/+t~f!!w. f'1,_~ ~''%!':'~ &Hll eu~ ~!n~ f.',a~ S'o-ut£n~ 07U,~~ ak_-l/?e,p1~-1 &~~x~g-:~Mz<Je~s tf3-Rul ~f(i"(!in'irof!o~~~-RLto cv!'tVt'-(v-e 9/l~ft; Y(;~i.111~ ~ ai)L.,~P~~· o//'oi!!J l!Jue flfa~~s 1vee'@.,11 e {~"5Jek,mrLU-~~u on,;J/. 1'tle4(1-)e · %1!PJme't'.fa·mp!/s OfJ ~Ug a,l @ldf!iu fk ~?L 1L'i}fJ ~hntS} ~a~f?e .~ ~ft',,u Dai 11t/J.M~ffns ~wt) 81;,/l,nilRnue 91'~ ~1t,~~' all.,~ffian~

ff1

i.l'J

17~~~~Y/ti!L;jt~ed ~f"I~ ~< t1Y:;J'f/!fi~SPra LW~~~l'&Jto· ~ikik~£-ta9f,e~~9;)Re
l/.

~cr~~fl;~n~CfuY,-OJLc;Dfr accam.

~wJ~&(w-m_W<Em~ef~~~~~;u'/f.oj<Ji<rJn~~!'j~

'&/I&

ct;x1t\'tl:P

J

.!?~l_tt·t,;n ..J (~~,a1_fa.Jz ~?2.e

fl

~~cnn f~L f.~1e- tve. wt?)21flme ,/;~~ .g_it 'ILet 1 e.~_, r:eJ,s IR.eL~/JuJL,alfJ.{ WtA:

s9fe~e5td~JJ; .fJl.~l4;<}l'a,~~a-n·laJr:l!id?f.JL~~ ~nto~ . . .UU~lw-efp-e 1nt.l'.t..s 111;;. ~-'Jlenu_ us all? ~~a·nniRJCUla~ ,we/t

a..(

is a ~ove~'-'~{tR.~/k~l <~; &~~

1

Ot

f!i",aie"lt cuccJ"Z:r1r::; if;j ~ &t_~j1U'l.l~· riJ). n'lldR -m 4/t;·ijfip, ~ J¥bfe, j~1t/Ao tRis (]Jzijf(ual£w-e9fo..gffj/cti,&Q10l~nesj} :3 o(:f.Y':11w7.~oJ

,~~J i>'Jfb-uf2,fp~ &s;-IJ~ lRe t1tt~ f-Yq:~~ o(:f Jem.~~ufe ~ii-rv~ ~111

£,n~o:. f11){'-W{tx~ ~~1'-e,'!1 J'vu-1~.s a.s &efc,'le. un,,/.,t.ff, ro--e.X~~'jcl.en~~ ge,v-e,n1-.9 · ~n·(fio1-'if3 1 (n.'l?tcLG ~~~£il>eJh fo fu;!.i t~{'e~~~ 1nde Lni-o_ #(!~,~pa/c.{S o-( ~ geffVt(!Ade ~o « -lrv~~<' r;Ju_/f_.s ~9-~JU.S) a//J.,n;-tyl S C:~cu taJt~1n£. C-e-t~ -ro-c.ff. 11'1.a~~ nnJ/J +R~ R.r n,<J-Vc/z,t.J on, £ctc!vfa"--iii£ :Tws f,d {)(
"'!!;! rrwi{?tVf/e
al.;t

0·11~,!1J~·l-U'ft1.tm,.iRe ~// ~~fR-w-a!t~

L~~~1.

{J;7ll:@1;;;w1 {jJl.~f'lf~<Y
~~----)

k/J~~~~
No.8

/f'if ()Jn..,,,_

r_;r, .5. Coast and Georlelic S'urPC.Y Ileporl, 1893- Part 11

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II ..

187

Although the line had been run out, little heed seems to have been given to it i11 the issue of' patents fo1· land. Over· some small part of the boundary cast of tlrn Brandywine the patent .Jines were made to conform to the circular boundary, nominally at least, though it i~ notice· able that the old deeds pay no regard to the cnrva ture of the line. 'l'he description of the bounds usually states tllat the hue runs on a cert.am course a specified number of perches ';along the circular boundary.'' Except in this one district the land patents pass over the houndary without reference to it. So for years and generations this line slumbered in obscurity, perpetuated for a time in local memory and tradition by reference to oak or hickory trc·es blazed or notched by the surveyors or by fonces which some settler h:ul built, as he supposed, upon the li11e. But year by year these witness marks decayed and passed from sight, until their ·very location became uncertain and until it has come to pass that at the present time the tolerably authentic relics of the old ~urvey may be counted upon the fingers of one hand. :i\leanwhile a far more troublesome .question of boundary lines was arisiug from the conflicting claims of William Penn and J,or<l Baltimore· to the fertile fields of the i)eninsula and the valley of the Susquehanna. Grants were given by both sides to ]ands in the disputed territory, and for many years the border was the scene of disputation arnl of confltct carried at times to the verge of open war. If Baltimore had the better title, Peun had the greater intl11e11ee at court, and moreover beld posses8ion of a larg·e tract claimed by Baltimore. Several efforts were made by the proprietors to come to some agreement in this matter, but for one rea.sou. or another the )legotiatious repeatedly miscarried. As early as 1<l8i3 Penn had succeede'l in obtaining from the comm ii tee of trade and plantations, to which the matter had been referred by the Ring in council, an order that the peninsula should he divided between him and Calvert to tl1e northward of a line running west from Uape Henlopen. In JJresenting his case before the committee, we find Penn very shrewdly aud skillfulJy av11iling himself of the Dutch claims through the early settlement by De Vries at the Hoornkill to support lus own title obtained from the Duke of York and deriYed from the.latter's conquest of the Dutch settlements. In Lord Baltimore's charter of 1G32 the descriptive phrase "hactenus inculta" (heretofore uncultivated) is applied to tlie territory so granted. This expression, found only in the preamble, was 11~ doubt inserted lllerely to denote that the part of Virginia conveyed to Lord Baltimore had not been settled as part of that colony. It seems clear that it was not intended to impose a eondition, for it was uot repeated in the body of the charter, a11d it was not held to substantiate the sePmingly valid claims of William Claiborne, who was actually settled on Kent Island at the time of the grant. .

188

U. S. COAST A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

It is certainly hardly supposable that King Charles I intended ·to to recognize any prior claim of a feeble Dutch settlement located on territory claimed by England by rigl1t of discovery and conquered later' by force of arms. And even if this unlikely supposition were trne, the lands exempted mH.ler the words "hactenus inculta." could only be thof?e of the actual settlement and could hardly be extended to cover the present State of Delaware. But, justly or unjustly, Penn, who was high in favor, prevailed over Lord Baltimore, who found it prudent to yield for a time lest worse · evils should befall 11im. And thus we see the little village of Swaanendael, so ·soon swept away in fire and blood, rising from its ashes to sever the Delaware shore from Maryland. But though Lord Baltimore submitted, he made no baste to carry out the order, and before anytl1i11g had been done the revolution which drove King James from the throne also overtumed the proprietary governments of Maryland and Pennsylvania. The .latter was soon restored to Penn, but .Maryland remained a Crown province till 171G. When Queen Anne succeeded to the throne, Penn managed to obtain an order in council for the enforcement of' the decision of 1G8.'i. This was in 1708; but nothing was done toward carrying out this order, and in 1718 Penn died, leaving the dispute to his )rnirs. The matter dragged along till 1732, when the heirs of Penn and the Lord Baltimore of that day joined in a deed to settle their boundaries. This called for a line running due west across the peninsula from Cape Henlopen, from the exact midrlle of which line a second line should be drawn to the northward in such a manner as to be tangent to a circle drawn 1~ miles from Newcastle. From the tangent point a due north line was to be drawn, reaching to withiu 15 miles from Philadel. phia, and from the terminus of this line the boundary to the westward should be a parallel of latitude. It was further stipulated that Newcastle County should in any event have the full area included )vithin the 12-mile circle, even if part of it lay to the westward of the due-north line from the tangent point. This proviso seems to have been added on account of t11e lack of information as to the direction whic11 the tangent line was likely to take and for fear that the meridian line might seriously curtail the area of the circle. Had the parties to the deed known, as we know at pres'ent, that the segment of the circle west of the meridian line froni the tangent point contains Jess than 14 acres, as the lines were marked on the ground, they might llave concluded that so small an area was hardly worth considering and we might. have been spared one compli· cation in this historic interstate boundary. But though matters thus seemerl settled, t11is was really far from being the case. Difficulties and disputes arose as to carrying out upon

REPORT l'OR 1893-PART II.

189

the ground the provisions of. the deed. The question as to the proper point in Newcastle which shoul1l be taken for the center of the 12-mile circle occasioned long debate. One rather quaint solution was the suggestion that this point should be the ce11ter of gravity of apaper plat of the town, the ceuter of gravity having been found by experiment by balancing the 1;lat 011 a: pin. ' . Lord Baltimore's friends iusisted on the absurd theory that the "12 miles" meant the periphery of the circle, while the Penns, of course, claimed that length of raclius. A dispute also arose as to tho true location of Cape Henlopen, as intended in the deed. In consequence of all thes~ diflicultics uothi11g- was done to carry out the deed. Tl.le next move was made by Lord Baltimore, who, in spite of his own deed of 1732, applied to King George II for a gTant to confirm his title according to the original charter of 1632. Naturally enough, this was refused by the King, and the matter was thrown in'to the court of chancery. In 1750 Lord Chancellor I-Iardwicke decided in favor of the Penns on <tVery point of dispute, ruling that the center of the circle must be the middle of Newcastle as nearly as tlmt poiut could be ascertained, that the "12 miles" meant the radius of the circle, and that the true Cape Henlopen was not the southern poi11t of Delaware Bay, but the point claimed by the Penns, about 25 miles fartller south and llO\V called Feuwicks Island. ·This last decision seems rather a strange one, for though it appears that there was some confusion of tisage among the Swedes and the English of the name "Henlopen," the present cape of that name seems to be clearly indicated in 'Villiam Penn's deed from the Duke of York, which reads thus:
· · " All that tract of land upon Delaware river nnd bay, beginning twelve miles south from the town of Now Castle, ot.horwiso called Delaware, aud extending south to tho \Yhoro-kills, otherwise oallod Capo Henlopen. · · *

William Penn himself seems to recognize this limit in his "Act of Dnion" of December 7, 1682, where he describes the "territories" as~
All that tract of land, from twelve miles northwo.ru of Now Castle, on the river J:>c!awnrc, down t.o tho sonth-co.pe, commonly called Capo Henlopen, and by tho Proprietary null Governor now oallou Cape ,James, lying on the west side of the said river and bay · * ·

But even the decree of Lord Hardwicke did not end the interminable controversy. It would almost seem that Lord Baltimore and his friends, despairing of obtaining what they no doubt considered their just rights,,Irnd set about making all possible trouble for their successful opponents, even at the cost of time, money, and good repute to themselves. In order to lessen as much as possible the amount of t~rritory which must be yielded to the Penns, 'Lord Baltimore's partisans contended tliat the 12 miles should be measured upon the surface of the ground and not horizontally. Anotb,er appeal was made to the lord chancellor,

190

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

and in March, 1751, he ordered that ht>rizo11tal measurements should be employed. After this decision by the lord chancellqr it appears that the location of the boundaries was begun by commissioners and surveyors appointed for that purpose. The "base line," or east and west line, acros1:1 the peninsula was laid out and measured. For this purpose a gap, or "visto/ as the old records have it, was cut through the forest. The line was rauged out by poles set up in the "visto," and the distances were measured with a Gunter's chain 66 feet long, which was kept as nearly horizontal as possible. The whole length of this "base line" was found to be 69 miles and 298 perches, a value probably about a mile and a quarter greater than the real distance. But at the distance of 66 miles and 24~ perches from the eastern end of the line the surveyors came to the shore of Slaughters Ureek, a branch of the Hudson or Little Choptank River, separating Taylors Island from the peninsula. · Lord Baltimore's commissioners at once raised another question. Evidently the shorter they could make the base li1ie the farther t't> the east would its middle point fall and the smaller would be the territory yielded by Maryland to Pennsylvania. So the Marylanders claimed that the line should stop at these first waters of the Chesapeake which were met in corning west from the ocean. 'fhe friends of the Penns, on the other hand, insisted that tl1e line should continue to the open bay. It was so completed, as noted above, but the Marylanders would not accept it, and once more the dispute was referred to Lord Chauceilor Hardwicke. Before his decision had been rendered Charles Lord Baltimore died and the proceedings came to nothing. When they were renewed, with the new proprietor, Frederick Lord Baltimore, made a party to them, he refused to be bound in any way by the acts of his predecessor. At last, however, on July 4, 1760, another deed was executed by the interested parties, and the long dispute was at an end so far as concerned the rival claims of Pennsylvania and Maryland. The boundary called for by the deed of 1760 was substantially the same as that of 17:J2. The pamllel of latitude forming the uortlrnrn boundary of Maryland was to be 15 miles south of the most southern part of Philadelphia. The "base line" was to cross Taylors Island to the open bay, as claimed by the Penns. The court-house at Xewcastle was accepted as the center of the circle. Under the deed of 1760 commissioners were appointed by each side to supervise the work of demarcation. These commissioners held their first meeting at Newcastle on November rn, 1760. They employed a number of surveyors, who proceeded to complete the work begun in 1751. 'fhese surveyors appear to have accepted the work of that year on the "base line," and for the next three years, until the latter part

REPORT ~'OR 1893--P.ART II.

191

of October, 1763, they were engaged in running trial Jines-for the tangent line,' starting from the middl3 point of the base line, and for the radius, which should meet the tangent at right a11gles 12 miles from Newcastle court-hoµse. After their three years of labor no solution had been reached, though it afterwards appeared that they had located the i·adius with considerable precision, considering their rude method of work. In October, 1763, the commissioners had just reached an agreement to report the i;fate of the work to their respective principals and to ask further instructions, when they received information from the proprietors that two skillful mathematicians had been engaged by them toJlssist the conunissioners in their fabors. Further proceed· ings were therefore suspendeu until the arrival of these new surveyors, Charles l\fason and Jeremiah Dixon. On December 1, 1763, the commissioners met at Philadelphia and read the articles of agreement .between the proprietors and the surveyors. 1-'hey also made the necessary arrangements with the latter for the conduct of the work. Messrs. l\'lason and Dixon, who thus appear upon the scene, were employed in the boundal'y surveys for the next four years. Their first task was to determine the latitude of the mm;;t southern part of the city of Philadelphia. The mayor and other city officials were called upon for information in regard to the true southern limit of the. city. Tiley conducte(l the com1i.1issioners and .Messrs. Mason and Dixon to the street called Cedar, or ~outh street, 1111d there pointed out a certain \louse occupied at tile time by Thomas Plumsted aud Joseph lluddle, situated on the south side of the street. The north wall of this house, marking the south side of the street, was stated by them to have been ever considered the most southern part of the city of Phila. delphia. Though the position of this house is not stated, it was probably very near the river, as Cedar street runs a little south of east and the most southern part of its south side would he where it struck the shore. Mason and Dixon built an observatory, and by observations with a zenith sector determined the· latitude of th is most southern point of Philadelphia to l>e 390 56' 2!l"·l. From the latest sur·vey of the water front of Philadelphia the latitude of the most southern part of the south side of Cedar or South street is about 390 56' 26 11 ·6, a value differing fron~ that of l\fason and Dixon by o11Iy 2~ seconds of arc, and. showing· thttt their work was very c1uefully done . . They next removed their instruments to a Hew station about 27 miles to the westward and near the forks of Brandywine Creek, where they again observed for latitude and located a point which they supposed to be in the same latitu<le as their first observatory. lt is said that a Whif;e stone, locally knowu as "the Htargazers' stone," still marks this second station. From thiH point they opeucll a line running <lue ~outh

·.192

\

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

through the forest and measured a distance of 15 miles in that direction. This measurement was designed to locate the i)arallel of latitude which by the deed of 17GO was to be laid out 15 miles south of Philadelphia to form the northern boundary of Maryland .. Either through an error in the latitude of the second· station as compared with that of the first, or from errors of chaining, or both, this line was carrieu too tar south. The difference of latitude between the end of South street and the northeast corner of Maryland is now about 1.3 1 611, or about 5 chains more than 15 miles, so that the northern bo{rndary of Maryland was put about 330 feet too far south. · From the southern end of their 15-mile meridian Mas2n and Dixon began laying off a parallel of latitude to the westward. After running several miles of this line, which was temporarily marked by woode.n posts, the surveyors left it for a time and turned their attention to the southern portions of the boundary. Accepting as settled the "base line" which had already been measured across tbe peninsula by their predecessors, and the middle point marked by the same persons, Mason and Dixon endeavored to run out the tangent line from that middle point of the bas'e to tbe tangent point. This extremity of the 12-mile radius laid out by the former surveyors was also accepted by Mason and Dixon, who found that it was nearly at right angles with the line ~vl~ich they laid out between' its western end and the middle point of the base line. As will be shown later, this tangent point is really about 108 feet too far from tbe belfry of Newcastle court-house. In laying out the tangent line Mason and Dixon were much assisted by the trial lines run by their predecessors_. From these abortive lines they computed the direction which the line should follow, and then ran it out by transit until they reached the tangent point. They found that their line ran 1G feet 7 inches east of that stake.· They then computed the proper offsets for each mile of their line to bring it to the true line, and moved their posts accordingly. This done, they reported to the commissioners that the posts so placed were, as nearly as practicable, in the true tangent line. Next, in accordance with the deed, a true north line was laid off from the tangent point to an intersection with the parallel of latitude 15 miles south of Philadelphia, which had already been partially surveyed, as related above. The point of inter,section of the meridian and parallel became the northeastern corner of Maryland. The temporary mileposts already placed in 'this line, and referring to the south end of the 15-mile meridian as an origin, were replaced by new posts counting westward from this corner of' Maryland. The next thing to be done was the marking of that portion of the 12-mile circle which lay to the westward of the due-north line from the tangent point. And here Mason and Dixon fell into an error in com· puting the length of this small arc. As was 'pointed out by Col. J. J), Graham in 1850, they seem to have obtained their nngle of deflection from the tangent to the due-north line, upon which~ tb.~i:t; comJ?utaMo:g,

The Bowu:/a,r.Y Lines
between..

Penn.sylvani.a., Delaware,a,ndMuyl.wu:l
as !.aid out by

Mason, and .Dixon,
iri 1763 -17G7 and by their predecessors (/i'rom reports uf'thr JoUtt Commissi oners and, of' Col.. J. .D. Oraluvn,, S.To 'lEngrsl849)

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

193

of the chord depended, by measurmg· the angle between their due-north line and the visible portion of the radius laid oti.t by their predecessors. They had previously fomid that this radius was sensibly perpendicnl.u to their own tangent line. Evidently, however, one of these anbrular measures was eom;iderably in errnr. 'rhey computed their chord and offsets with a deflection augle of :) 0 28', while the actual angle between the tange11t aud the due-north line was found by Colonel Grah~~m to be 3° 36' 06". -.A,s the arc cut off hy the due-north line would be twice the deflection angle, tlJis made an error of Hi' 12" iii the angular value of the intercepted arc and shortened the chord about 300 feet. Owing to the flatness of the curve the middle ordinate was 110t greatly in error, at1d the area of the segment was only about au acre too small. Mason aud Dixon would probably have obtained better results if they had directly measured the angle of detlectiou of the due-north liue from their own tangent line. By an error in chaining they made a ~mialler lllistake in the opposite direction, the actual length of their chore~, according to Colonel Graham, being 84 feet greater than the value given by them. Their chain measurements, probably intrusted to careless em1,loyees, seem in general to have been irregular and inaccurate. Distances on the ground are almost always greater thau their nominal length. The tangent line, supposed to be a little less· than 82 miles . long, is probably a!)out 8·11 miles in actual length. Curiously enough, all of the errors in measurement made by l\iason and Dixon or their PredecessorK seem to have resulted in loss of territory by Maryland, except for the trifling error in the area of the circular i;cgment. On the base liue the tlistances seem to have underru n, coutrary to the general rule; but if this error was cumulative it wa.s probal>ly distributed With some degree of uniformity and would not greatly affect the position of the middle point. . But the error in locatmg the northern boundary of 1\farylarnl, putting it about 5 chains too fiu· south, meant the loss of a strip of that width along· the whole length of the bonutlary, about l!W miles. 'l'his area Would amount to nearly s,ooo acres. The error in measuring the radius from Xewcaf'lthl court-house, which Placed the tangent point 108 feet too far from the center, took a strip of that width from the east.em border of Maryland to the northward of the taugeut point, while south of that pomt, assuming- that the southwest corner of Deiaware was correctly placed, l\'J:aryland lost a wetlgeshaped $trip about 84~ miles long .and 108 feet wide at the base . .After completing the arc above mentioued, l\Iasou and Dixon took up the extension of their parallel of latitude to the westward, and their Work does not further affect the matter nuder consideration . .As these various lines were located by Mason and Dixon they were ~arked by suit!tble stone monumentR which were generally one mile :Part. Tl.tis work was done by other persons under the snpervisiOn of ht\ conunissioners. These stones were made in England from oolitio S. Bx. l!J, pt. 2-rn
0

194

U. S. COAST AND GEODE'l'IC SURVEY.

limestone, aud were sent out from time to time as they were needed. They ar;e stout square posts surmo1rnted by a ratlier fiat pyramid. Upon the side facing ?lla.ryl:wd 1".11e letter ::\1 is cut, and 011 tlie opposite side the letter P. As Delaware waR then a part of Pennsylvania the whole length of the line was marked in the same way. Every fifth m1lcstoue, l1owcver, was more elaLorntely rnarkml, haviug the arms of the respective proprietors carved upon the opposite sides in place of the initials. It speaks w(·Jl for the durability of the ston~ used that after being exposed to the elements for more tha11 a ce11t11ry and a quarter these inRcriptio11s are still distiuctly legible and the stones are in s<> good condit.io11 as to have quite a 1nouern appearance. \Vhile I was one day examiuing the eightieth milestoue 011 the ta11gcnt fine I was. approached hy a farmer who lived i11 a house not far way. He asked me the mea11i11g of the stone, a111l 011 being told something of its history seemed much surprise<1 awl said that lie liad tho11g]1t it a farm honudary mark placPd there in rece11t years. One of the~e t'tones carved with the arm~ of the proprietors hus found its way by some strange ch:u1ee illto the town of ~cwark, where it supports 011e of the pi Ila.rs of the porch in fro Ht of a very old house. It is prohalily one that was intended to !llark the cighty-fiftll mile of the tangent line; hnt this 1Jei11g- 011ly 8'.! miles lo11g, as measured, it was uot use1l, though it 111ight well lmvc uce11 placed at tlie intersect1011 of the arc with the due-Horth liue iBstead of the rougl1, unnrnrkell stone which stood there till 18,!!I. 'l'he 111011u111ents placed at. the mi11dle ]ioiut of the lmi:;c liBe, now the southwest corner of l>claware, aJHI at the, 11orthel1SL eor!ler of Maryland, differed fro111 any of the others ill havillg a coat of arms Oil each sido thereof: lJ p<m their nortJi a11d east sides were carved the arms of tho Penns and upon their son th a11d west sides the armS'of' Lord Baltimore. 'l'be st-0nes 11laccd at. the tang·cnt poiut and at some other points on the small part of th<' circle laid ont by }Jason and T>ixou were of dif. fercnt and far less (lnrable material-a dark g-rauite rock of very poor' quality. It appears from the minutes of the commissioners, under date' of June 17, 17U5, tliat it was intended to replace these stolles with more durable monuments marked with t be arms of the proprietors. For some rcasou this never was done, arnl most of the old st<?ne:; still remai11. The top of each is rounded to iuuicaM that it is on the circle. The arms of the proprietors can barely be perceived upon the old stone at the tangent poi11t, the only oue whicl1 was so marked. Not loug after the completion of this celebrnted work, the fruit of so many years of conte11tio11 all(} of so great labor and expense, did the proprietors enjoy the quiet possession of their licrltage. The storm of the l~evo'iution, whieh even then was gathering, soon swept away tl1e proprietary governments and severed the connection between Pe11i1syl· va11ia and the "three lower count1es," tlrni disaffected portion of the province becomrng the State of Delaware, or, ais itis lt~al tltle, first read, "the Delaw'are State." ·

REPORT FOR 1893-.PAR'l' II.

195

By this separation a large portion of the boundary line over which th<! Penns and the Calverts had so long coiltended, the controversy over which had so embittered neighboring communities and which had itt last been settled at so great labor and expense, became the dividiµg line l>etween the States of Maryland and Delaware. Being well marked by durable monuments, no further dispute has arisen in that connection. The boundary l>etween Pennsylvania aud · the new State of Delaware, howen~r, reverted to the old circular line between the counties of Chester and Newcastle; The survey of this line by '.l'ailer and Pierson, 1701, has already been described. As previously noted, th.ere was no connection whatever l>etween Mason and Dixon's work of 1763-1767 and the old line of 1701. 'rhis line ran through a hilly and sparsely settled regiou, and the approximate location handed down by tradition among the country people seems to have been suflicieut for their simple needs. As years passed l>y memories of the Ii ne of 1701 became dim, especially near its western end, and local traditiou assumed that the stone at the uortheast comer of Maryland marked also the western eqd of the cil'cnlar boumlary. As a corollary to this, it was held that all of the territory lying sout.h of the parallel all(l east of the meridian passing through the northeast comer of ·Maryland, down to the tangent point, belonged to Delaware. ln other wor1ls, Dela.ware and Maryland were thought to be coterminous up to the northeast corner of tlle latter State. This popular view, which crystallized into local usage, though subsequently violently assailed and even oflicially renounced by the boundary commissioner of Delaware in 18;')(1, hm; actually governed all interested Parties even to this <lay. All the laud titles are recorded iu Delaware, the i11hahita11ts vote a.11d pay taxes in that 8tate, and, as 11ote1l by Colonel Graham and others, a resident of this wedge·i>lrnped strip between tlie circle and the boundary of l\laryla.JHl was for some time a llleuiber of the Delaware legislature. From a comparison of the oill grants it seems a reasonable interpretation that the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania should not extend son th of Mason arnl Dixon's 1mrallel of lat.itu1le, and it is therefore .a gTatifying circumstance that one result of the last interstate commission 011 this Subject will be to legally establish that condition. Penn's charter of Hi81 provided that the southern boundary of Pennsylvania should folJow "the 12-mile circle" northward and westward Until it intersected the forti11th parallel of north latitude. 'rhis was found to be impossible, but by subsequent proceedings, already described; the pal'allel of latitude 15 miles south of Philad(llphia was si1bstitutcd for the fortieth parallel. Now, the 1~-mile circle had already been surveyed when l\fason and Dix.on marked their parallel of latitude, and it seems clear that the i>outhern boundary of Pennsylvania resulting from these two survey:,;, to conform to the spirit of the char·

196

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVF.Y.

ter, should have followed the circle of 1701 to its intersectio1\ with Mason and Dixon's parallel of latitude, and should thence have· followed that parallel to the westward. Under Penn's deeds of 1682 from the Duke of York he claimed the 1~-mile circle and the country south of it, but made uo claim to any land. between the circle and the southern boundary of Pennsylvania. All such land unquestionably belonged to l\faryland. But in the deeds of 1702 and 17GO the Calverts so far yielded their rights in this respect as to agree to an eastern boundary rmming due nor·th from the ta.ngent point. '.l'his agreement transferred to the Penns the wedge-like area between the circle and the duenorth line. This was outside of both of Penn's grants, a sort of donation from I,or·l Baltimore; lmt no good reason appears for considering this accretion a part of Permsylvania proper rather than of the imlnediately coutiguon~ territory of Newcastle County. Even on the mrnumpt.ion that the territory so gained was part of Chester Connt,v, Newcastle County was entitled to claim the circle of 1701 as its boundary. That line, beyond a doubt, intersected Mason and Dixon's due-north line far to the n~rth of the point conunonly called "the junction of the three States." The small circular arc laid out by Mason anti Dixon to the north: ward of the tangent point was part of the boundary of Maryland under the deeds of 1732 anti 1700. The point of' intersection of this arc and the due-north line, lrnown since 1850 as "the junction of the three States," was then considered of no more importaucc tl1a11 any other point of the Maryland line, and was perhaps the worst marked of them all. The idea of making the end of this fragmentary arc, laid out by )iasou ·and Dixon in 17G5 for one special pnrpose, the initial point of tlte circular. boundary of Delaware, in utter disreg·iird of tlte line actually surveyed iu 1701 for that other special purpose, seems to have originated with Col. ,J. D. Graham, of the United States Topographical Eugiueers, who in 184!) and 1850 superintended a revision of' a portion of Mason and Dixon's work. This resurvey was due to tlw following· circurrn~tances: 'rhe monument which hatl been placed in 171i8 at the northeastern corner of Maryland in the course of time disappeared from its place. Various stories are current as to the cause of its disappearance, but they are not important in this co1111ectio11. 'l'he absence of this stone and the uncertainty as to tht> significaucc of others in the neighborl1ood combined with rumors of the unauthorized moving of some of the monuments, produced a general foeling of doubt in regard to the northeastern boundaries of Maryland. 'l'llis condition led to the appointment in 1849 of a joint commission composed of one represeutative from each of the three States-Pennsylvania,, Delaware, and :Maryland. It seems clear from the circnm.stances atteudiug the formation of this commission that the missing stoue was considered by all to have marked a 11oint common to the three 8tates. The resolution of tlie r elaware

REPORT POR .1893-.PART II.

197

legislature authorizing· the appointment of a. commissioner from that State describes it as ''the orig'inal boundary ·stone established at the point where the States of Pennsylvania, l\farylaud, and Delaware join each other." 'rhis resolution was adopted on tlrn 10th of February, 1847. The legislature of Pennsylvania did not act on the mft.tter till 1849, when, on April 10, a bill was passed authorizing the appointment of a couunissio11er to act for Pennsylvania iu surveying and determining the point of intersection of the three States and fixing a suitable monu· ment a.t the point. This.is not quite so explicit in its designation of the particula1:'point n1eant as the Delaware resolution, but it clearly iudicates that a point then unmarked is to be located and suitably marked. 'l'be corner of Maryland is the only pqint. that would answer that description, and if the view ad vancecl by Colonel Graham had been held by the legislature of Pennsylvania it would hardly have admitted.Delaware to a voice in the location of the boundary betwee11 Pennsylvania and Maryland. I can not find that the legislature of Maryland took any action towanl appointing a commissioner, but one was certainly appointed by the· governor of that State, and this action was subsequently ratified by the legislature, which authorized the payment of the necessary expenses. · 'Jhis joint commission of 1849 obtained from the \Var Department the detail of ,Lieut. Col. J. D. Graham to conduct the 11ecessary surveys. ·It is unnecessary to enter. into much detail in regard to his operations, Which are quite fiflly described in his interesting report subsequently Published by each of the three States. He reestablished the corner of Maryland b~r producing to an intersection the north and east lines of that State as marked 'by monuments then in existence. 'l'he corner thus determinml was marked by a massive granite post, Which is still in good condition. , II~ also placed new granite posts at the tang·ent point, at the middle Point of the arc of the circle north of the tangent point, and at th~ Point where the above arc·, as laid out by :Mason and Dixon, ents the due-north line so often referred to. This last stone was made in the shape of·a triangular prism, inscribed With ,the initials of the three States on the appropriate sides. 'J'he names of the commissioners and tlie cl!tte 1840 were also cut ou the north side under the i11itial P. The pe~uliar f<>atures of tllis stone were in accordance with the theory .adopted by this commission of 1849, at the prompting ot' Colonel Graham, that this point was "the junction of the three States." It is ~Pecially surprising thn.t the .commissi?ner from Delawar~, George t ead Hiddle, esq., shoultl have assented to this encroachment upon h~e area and jurisdiction of liis State. And the h~gislature had given 1111 no authority for such surrender. .The joint resolution of February

198

U. R. COAST AND GEODE'I'IC SURVEY.

10, 1847, under which lHl was appoi11t1·d, has alr~ady been mentioned. It is entitled a·' Resolution relative to the northwest boundary stone of the State," and its te.xt, which is given in fnll in the appendix to. this report, clearly i11dicates that the legislature wisherl to restore the stone which-Juul hcen removccl from the northeast corner of Maryland, and not that oeber stone which was then standing at the point now occupied by the triangular prism, more than ;3~ miles farther south. There was no fnrther grant of power to the commissioner, not a hint of auy authority to chauge a 1011g-accepte1l bou)l(lary, nor to hind the State as to any details of the circular boundary lH~tween 1>elawal'e and Pennsylvama. Yet, strangely enough, we find the Delaware eommissioner accepting and signing a report and map which took from his State not only the wedge or "llatit'ou" south of J[ason aud Dixou's line 1 but also in the final com1equenees of his act, a long curved strip, or horn, about half a mile wide at its base and stretching northeastward along the circle for 11 miles, until it vanishes in a sleuder point at the Kenuctt-Pennsbury stump, near Centerville, ])el. This was due to the fact that Colonel Graham'i;; map of 1850, signed by -the tllrce comrnissiouers, pushed hack the cil'cular boundary from its actual intersection with l\Iason aJHl Dixon's line to the tlleoretical l!!-mile circle, rcgal'llless of tl1e well-lmowu rule that an actual line upon the ground is to he preforrc1l 1.o the written descrip1iou of the same line in a dpc1l. l t will lie notict·1l that, although Delawarels clnim to the "tlntiron" seems to have been just, the common impression that tl1e circular arc beg·an at the corner of Maryland was ciToneom;. Tailer and Pierirnn's line or 170l c1·ossed Mason and Dixon's line some 2000 feet east of t.hat corner, and this point of intersection was the true beginni11g of tl1e circular boundary. In addition to the work above mentioned, Colonel Graham also made some trigonometric observations and' calculations to obtain the distance between the tang·cnt sto1ie and the court house at Newcastle. He also computed the distances from the nol'theast corner of Maryland to the true 12-mile eircle in two directions-first, 011 a right line, or radius; to the spire of the court-house, and, second, on Mason and Dixon's line produced. These diE\tanccs, shown on the mnp furnished the co1umi~ sioncrs by _Colonel Graham, arc, from one cause or another, considerably in err01·, even on the assumption tliat the boundary must foJlow t.he true 12-milP cirele, an assumption already RlttJWll to be untenable. As mentioned above, these apparently erroneous couclusiom1 as to the true point of junction of the three Htates and as to the proper loca· tion of the circular houndary were embodie1l in a map which, on l\larch 1, 1850, received the sig-natnres of the three commissioners, H. G. S. Key, of Maryland, .Toshua P. Byre, of Penusylvauia, and George H.ead Hiddle, of Delaware.

REPORT FOR 1898-PART Il.

199

No subsequent acts of ratification seem to have been passed by the State legislatures, but the result was generally-accepted on paper while ignored in fact. 'l'he maps showed Peuns~'lvania reaching a slender finger tl.10 southward between Delaware and l\Iaryland, but Delaware continued to exercise complete jurisdiction over that area. In view of recent action, by whicb the above arraugcment bas been somewbat modified au cl tbe "'flatiron" has been restored to Delaware, it appears that the most important effect of the map of 1850 ,\-as to commit tbe State of Delaware to the dcti11ite acccptauce of the iutersection of Mason aml Dixon's line with the true l ~-mile circle as tbe initial point of the circular boundary iusteacl ol' the intersection with the circle of 1701. This survey of 1850 called attention to the uumarked condition of this circular boundary, and while, fortunately for Delaware, the commissioners appointed at th:Lt time had no nutl10rity to uudertalrn the Work of marking it, they suggested that speedy action should be taken. The legislature of Peunsylvauia took action in the matter, and in several sections of a sort of omnibus bill, approved April 23, 1850, pro· Vided for the appointment of a commissioner, etc. ·The act is somewhat of a curiosity iu its very matter-of.fact provisions for laying out tbe trne 12-mile circle and for securing the titlQS and other vested iutm·ests of the numerous citizens of Delaware who were thus to be transferred to Pennsylvania. Aside from this pr~judgiug· of the case, its provisions seem careful and intelligent. Delaware tloes not seem to have cared to make so one-sided a bargain, and nothing more was done for about forty years. 'rlte increasing importance or the bournlary, as the country grew in population and wealth, led to a renewed agitation of the question. On April 25, 188£1, the legislature of Delaware passetl a bill appointing Hon. Thomas F. Bayard, Hon. B. L. Lewis, and Hon .·Tohn H. IIotfocker commissioners on the part of Delaware to act in co11junction With a similar corumissiori from Pennsylvania to agree upon and mark the boundary. On May 4, 188!), the legislature pf Pennsylvania pa,_ssed a similar act, authorizing· the govcruor to appoint three commissioners to act for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, iu conj·mction with the Delaware comlllissioners, in "examining, surveying, and reestablishing" the boundary line between tbe two St11tes. These commis~iouers. were directed t<> join in marking by enduring monuments the line so reestablislied. The governor appointed Hon. Wayue l\facVeagh, Hou. W. ll. Miller, and Hon. U. E. l\lonaghau as the Pennsylvania cormnissioners under this act, The proceedings of these two boards of commissioners have 11ot yet b~en published, and not mtiuy details of their deliberations can be given. From the limited information nt hand it appears that the comtnissioners from b()th States met in joint session at Philadelphia and

to

200

u: S.

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

selected Hon. Thomas F. Bayard as their chairman: Each commission separately employed an agent, stylecl, respectively," suryeyor on the part of Pennsylvania" and "surveyor on the part of l)elaware." These "surveyors" a<:ted as secretaries to their respective boards, collected information in regard to existing mo11 uments supposed to be on the boundary line, looked up ol!l title deeds beariug ou tl.te matter, etc. It appears also to have been expected that they -\voul<l survey and mark the boundary. Mr. Benjamin I-1. Smith, of Pltilaclelphia, was the" surveyor for Pennsylvania," and Mr. Daniel Farra, of Wilmington,' was. the "surveyor for Delaware." These gentlemen appear to have examined with considerable care the available documents, county records, etc:, which might tl1row light upon the question. Starting from the Delaware H,iver and going westward, they seem to have been,mutually satisfied that they hall identified with reasonable certainty, as parts of tl.te line of 1701, the followiug marks: l<'irst, the remains of the old honse below 11farcus Hook at which Tailer and Pierson ended the eastern section of their Ii11e; second, the bouudaries of some farms west of the," Concord Turnpike" aud east of Bra11dywine Creek, tbe original patent!;! for which lands called for the circular line as their southern boundary; third, a peculiar bend of Brandywine Creek, west of the rocky promontory called Point Lookout, where the stream, flowing nearly south, touches the boundary of Delaware, but retre~ts again to Pennsylvania, curving back to the northeast and sweeping in a lo~1g bend arouud Point Lookout, when it once more trends to the southward and crosses the boundary at last near Smith's bridge; fourth, a large hickory stump, which marks the point at which the line between tl.te townships of Kennett and Pennsbury, in Chester Oounty, strikes the circular line of 1701. This last point is a particularly notable one. Tl.ta old tree, which was standing a few years ago, was no doubt in existence in the time of William Penn. It is mentioned as a "small hickory" in a deed given in 1713 by George Harlan to his son, James Harlan, for 200 acres of land, a part of the "manor of Staneing," granted by patent by William Peun to his daughter Lmtitia in 1701. The hickory was described as being "in ye eastern line of ye said ma.11or.'' To the westward of this hickory stump 110 marks could be found which the State surveyors were mutually willing to accept as correct. A considerable number of marks of more or less autl.tenticity were 110inted out or described at that time awl subsequently by the inhabitants along the line. Tit ere was, however, no docume11 tary evidence of theiriflentity, and the agents of the commissioners declined to consider usage or tradition as reliable for their purposes. One of these points, a stone a.t the corner of a farm ill Mill Creek Hundred, was supported by title deeds dating back to about 1830, when

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

201

the land of au intestate decedent was divided among his heirs. As tlie land lay partly in P6nnsylvania iind partly in Delaware, the courts ,of' both Chester and Newcastle counties were interested in the case. A surveyor was employed, who ran out and marked the portion of' the St.ate lirw crossing the estate, all(] these marks itre still in place. Each court then took jurisdiction on its own side of the linei and the estate was thus administered. 'rhere is no documentary connection between the work of this surveyor and the line of 1701, aud this work of 1830 was mo:;;t. likely run between the nearest two traditional marks, possibly some of the old trees, which· may still have been standing at that time. The marks so established had certainly been accepted as authentic by the people and the local authorities on both sides for sixty Years, and might well have been considered of some value, especiaJly ·as their position i11dicates a strong probability that they are at least very near the line of 1701. 'l'hese circumstances were not, however, discovered until the joint commission had agreed to accept as the western end of the arc the intersection of Mason and Dixon's line of 1764 With the true l!!-mile circle as indicated 011 the map of 1850. The ''State surveyors," therefore, made no use of these points, which were brought to light in the course of the iiurvey of 18!.l2. Although, ns just mentioned, the commissioners followed the precedent furnished by the oflieial plat of Colouel Graham's work in decidh1g that the circular boundary s'houlll meet 1\1ason and Dixon's line at a point just 1'.! miles from the spire of Newcastle court-house, they agreed to correct so much of his work as threw into Pennsylvania the triangular area commonly called the "flatiron." The western boundary of Delaware would therefore coincide with the eastern boundary of Maryland, and the northern boundary of Delaware would run due east from the northeast corner of :Maryland to a point just 12 miles from ~ewcastle court-house and thence would follow a curved line passing In· as reg·ular a manner as possible through the successive boundary lna.rk.s accepted as authentic relics of the line of 1701. · But the commissioners and the surveyors had no reliable information as to the absolute or relative positions of these marks, and could therefore fu1·m no couclusions with regard to the curve to be passed through them. Nothing seems to have been done in the way of tiel<l work, and the matter remained in this condition until 18!.l2. , l~arly in that :};ear the joint commission, through the Hou. Thomas l· ·.Bayard. and l\Ir. Benjamin H. Smith, applied to the Superintendent of the United States Co11,st and Geodetic Survey for assistance in the 1 natter and for the <letail of au officer to execute the field work. The consideration of thh1 work forms the suqject of the second part 0 ~ this report, but to bring this historical sketch down to the present tune the work of 1892 mny be summarized as follows: · d. ~~ wa~ found that no single circle could be made to satisfy the conitions unposed by the commissioners. A compound curv~ was there-

202

tJ. B. COAST .A.ND GEODETIC

SURVEY.

fore laid out.. Tl.tis is formed by two circular arcs which have a common tangent at the Kennett-Pennsbury stump, whicl1 point is very nearly midway on the whole curve. 'l'he radius of the western part of tbe curve is about 11·58 miles and that of the eastem part is about 12·81 miles. Although the radius of curvature of the western part of the arc is less than 12 mHes, no part of it lies within tlie 12-mile circle. The western end or initial point of the curve is just 12 miles from Newcastle court-house, but every other point of the line is outside of the theoretical circle. This difference increases rapidly as far as the Kel}.nett-Pennsbury stump, whern it is 1877 foet, and after that more gradually, amounting to 3137 feet at the eastern eud or terminus of the line. This line is now marked l>y 4(i i-;ubstantial monuments, as follows: An initial monument, made of dark Brandywine granite, at the western end o_r origin of the curve; 22 milestones rnarketl with the initials of the names of the States and the date. J:-;!)2; 22 smaller stones marked simply ~' placed half way between the milestones, and a terminal monument near the, Delaware River, at the eastern end of the line. With the exception of the initial monument, all of these stones are of a light grayish white gneiss, from.a quarry near Chester. Thus ends for the present the history of thi:-; boundary, and although · a few residents of the debatable ground uear tl1e initial monument felt aggrieved that the official locatio11 of the line placed them in Pennsylvania instead of J)elaware, and although ther·e are rumors of a contemplated appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, it appears reasonable to suppose that the line thus marked will remain the boundary and that this will be the last chapter of the long story of border troubles outlined in the foregoing sketch.

PAHT IL-DETAILED ACCOUNT OF 'l'Im WORK ON THE PI~NNSYLVANIA DELA WARE BommAHY LIKE EXECUTED BY w. c. HODGKINS, ASSISTANT.

In compliance with the Superintendent's letter of iusti·uctions, dated March 8, 1892, I communicated with Messrs. Benjamin H. Smith, of Philadelphia, and Daniel Farra, of "Wilmington, who hail been employed by the two. boa.rtls of commissioners to represent the interests of their respective States. At the request of these gentlemen I went from Washington to Philadelphi11 on :March 16, 1892, and met them at the office of i\lr. Smith. At this conference the nature of the problem was outlme<l and a general plan of work was adopted. Briefly summarized, in advan.ce of more detailed discussion, the following were the principal features of the work to be done: 1. The accurate determination of the geographical positions of the

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

203

following poiuts, viz: Newcastle court-hom1e, the stone marking the northeastern corner of MarylalH:l, and such Jioints of the line of 1701 as could be satisfactorily identified. 2. The preparation of a drawing to show these points in their true relative positions and to. indicate the various lines which might be ma1le to satisfy more or less com1>letely the conditious imposed by the connni .-sioners. a. The decision by the commissionen;, after consideration of the above map, as to the character of' the curve which should be adopted for the bouudary. 4. '.I'he prnliminary location upon the ground of the line so adopted. 5. 'rI1e examination of this preliminary line by the commissioners witli a view to auy modifications which might become necessary. fi. 'l'he permanent marking of the line as approved by the commissioners of .tlle two St.ates. It was suggested to Messrs. Smith aud Farra that tbe most ready means of obtaining the required information would be by using the plane table, whid1 would likewise afford a very fair degree of precision in. the location of the line. '.l'hey preferred, however, to have the work done by trigonometric methods, but it was decided to make a plane table reconnaissauce 9n a ~mall scale (1: 40000) in order to outain an approximate idea of the positions of the guiding points with reference to each other. Tbis Would also serve i~r laying out the scheme of' triangulation for the suusequent work. With this understanding I returned to Washington, where I was engaged in completing my office work of the topogra1)hical survey of the District of Columbia. I at once began, however, to gather materials a11d to make preparations for taking tbe field early iu April, and on the 14th and 15th of that month I seut two members of the party to :Newark, Del., to begin the field work by putting ui) flags and searching for the stfltiou marks of the Coast Survey in that vicinity. I expected to follow them in a few days, but before I had been able to leave Washington it appeared from my correspondence with the State surveyors that there existed a certain amount of misunderstanding or lack of definition as to the exact scope of the work which the Coast and Geo1letic Survey was asked to undertake, and also as to ~he positio11 wbich I, as the representative of the Survey, was to occupy 111 relation to the State snrveyors . . It being· deemed advisable by you that these matters should be definitely settled before I went to the field, my departure was delayed for a time. . After further correspondence and a personal conference at the 0 tllce of the Survey, on April 27, between tl-te State surveyors aud Yourself, at which I wa!'! also present, they expressed a w'isb to submit tbbe question anew to tbeir respective commissioners for further action Y them.

204

U. S. COAST AND GlmDETIC SURV;EY.

In pursuance of this arrangement, Messrs. Suiith and Farra addressed to you a letter, dated l\lay 5, 189:.:l, in which they informed you that the matter had that day b.een submitted by' them to the boundary commissions of the two States in joint session in Philadelphia, and that the joint commission had adopted a resolut.io11, as follows:
Resolved, That Messr~. Smith and J<'arra. be instructed to securo the survey of the line as soon as possible in accordance wit.h tho Hnggestions of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, so a..~ to euable them to report the line approved by them to the Commission' m1 soon as possible.

As in your opinion this resolution satisfactorily terminated the uncertainties above referred to, yori verbally directed me to proceed to cal.·ry out your instructions of March 8. I accordingly left Washingt<m on May 11, 1892, and reached Newark, Del., on the same day. I first examined the work which had been done by the two men whom I had sent to the field in April, and who had been employed during my enforced delay in putting up flags aud searching for triangulation points. 'fhey had succeeded in recovering the stations "Londonderry," "Meetinghouse· Hill," and "Grandview," the last t.wo so close togetl1er as to amount practically to one station. A large number of flags had also been put up in the vicinity of the boundary between the Maryland line arid Brandywine Creek, and these were of considerable service in the reconnaissance. I also made a personal examination of the ground in the vicinity of the northeast corner of l\faryland~ and, on :\fay 18, I accompanied Messrs. Smith and Farra on a visit to the portion of the old line in the vicinity · of Brandywine Creek, where some traces of the former work are still to be identified. I was shown the old hickory stump at the southeast corner of Kennett township, the peculiar bend of the Brandywine through which Tailer and Pierson dragged their chain in 1701, and -the other supposed marks referred to in the first part of this report. A tall hickory treH standing on the supposed old line at the corner common to the townships of Concord and Bethel, Delaware County, Pa., was selected by the surveyors as the reference point for that part of the line. At a later period I also accompanied Messrs. Smith and Farra to the supposed remains of the old house on the Delaware which marked the eastern end of th e line. I now endeavored t-0 recover some of the Coast Survey stations, which would better answer my purpose than those already found. The natural and· artificial changes of the half century since that work was done had so completely changed the surroundings of the points that our search was unsuccessful for the time. The line "Londonderry"-" Meeting·house. Hill," a side of one of the primary triangles, was adopted as the base for the triangulation, after some hesitation due to the length of the line (nearly 14 miles) and to th~ fact that intervening obstacles would compel me to. elevate t.be
1

REPORT FOR 1893...--PART II.

205

instrument at each station. l~rom this base line was developed a scheme of triangulation which reaches directly. e:wh of the points required to be determined except the one upon the bank of the Dela~vare. That also is reached indirectly, having been connected with .the neighboring stations of the river triangulation, which is also connected with my work at Newcastle. In reducing the size of tlw triangles from the J4:miJe base line to the length required for following the circular boundary with a smnll scl.teme new points were firi;t established at "Centerville," Del., in the village of that name, and at "vVhite," Pa., near the village of Kemblesville. Thi:;i latter station was very near the old point "Missimer," for which some ineffectual search was made in the hope of making· the stations coincide. From the line" White"-" Meetmghouse Hill" thus determined I was able to locate a station on "Grays Hill," near Blkton, :l\>ld. From this point and from "l\Ieetinghouse Hill" observations could be made upon thA spires of the Masonic Hall and Immanuel Church at Newcastle. Tl10 court-h.ouse, bE;iing low and inconspicuous, could not be seen over the surrounding trees, but was determined by smaller triangles based upon neighboring· poiuts which had· first been established from the lllaiu statious. I was then able to compute for the first timo tho position of this important point in terms of the standard data of the Coast and Geodetic Survey . .A great deal of trouble was experienced in making the reconnaissance for the triaugulation on account of the rolliug character of the country, tlie llills in any locality having nearly the same elevation. These hills are ah;o generally covered with heavy timber, and as there are no commanding heights it was very difficult to securo intervisil>le points suitably located. . The atmospheric conditions were likewise unfavorable, the air being remarkably thick throughout the season. AU of these obstiwles were overcome at last, but to accomplish it required inuch time and a great deal of hard work. In several cases stations had to be moved time after time to meet the conditionH imposed by new ones selected further on, and this process l.iad to be repeated until all the necessary lines of sight were nrrauged. Iu the sclrnme finally worked out there was scarcely any cutting and comparatively few scaffold signals. · . '.l'he stone at the northeast corner of Maryland was a station pecul~arJy difficult to bring into the scheme of triaugnlation, situated as it is 111 tl1e bottom of a wooded ravine. I was able, however, to obtain a s.atisfactory determination of this importaut point. A portiou of the 1 11 ~ e bet,veen "Londonderry" aud "Meetinghouse Hill" was heavily tuiibored, a11d it was necessary to remove some of the larger trees from tb~ liue of sight to avoid 1111 extremely high signal at "Meetinghouse liill." To assistAin openi;ug this line and to sBrve in tlte recounaissunce

206

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

for the new stations afterwards located at ''Centerville" aud "White," it was found necessary to put up tall poles provided with cleats for climbing high enough to make preliminary observations. By means of these tho line was opened, the new points were selected, and the neces· sary heights of the signals were determined. Polei;i from GO to 85 feet high were raised by a tackle and horse power. They were steadied by rope or wire guys, carried flags at the top, aml were cleated to a height of about (iO feet. A light whip rove through a singll~ block at the top enabled the reconuoiteriug telescope to be hoisted to the eye of tho observer. Such a pole was also erected uear the old station ''Bethel,'' in hopes of connecting that portion of the line with the triangulation, but the heavy timber upon the di\'idiug ridge to the westwarcl pre· vented it from being seen from "Centerville." It was therefore found necessary to omit auy triangulation over the G miles of the line between the Concord and Philadelphia turnpikes. Hy the eud of .June the reconnaissance was so far advanced that I felt able to prol'eed to lmild the main signals, where scaffolds of some height were necessary. To expedite matters by getti11g these signals up while I was completing the reconnaissance, I engaged Mr. Joseph \Villis, a carpenter a11d builder of Newark, to build these for me as rapidly as possible; and I expected to begin the angular measurements as soon as tbey were done. l\lr. Willis took the work at a reasonable price and put up the signal at Grays Hill as planned. .Just at this stage of the work Mr. F~rra, who, with 1\l r. Smith, had been kept informed of the progress of events, paid me a visit and notified me that the commissioners were not agreed upon the desirability of the triangulation, and that they particularly o~jected to the expense of building signals. He therefore requested me to go to uo further expense of the kind until the matter could be carefully considered by the joint commissiou. After the particular desire which had been manifested in the begin· ning of the work to have everything done by triangulation, I was much surprised at Mr. Farra's communication. As the survey was being made for tlte commissioners, however, I felt obliged to yiehl to their request. As matters turned out, this action was particularly unfortu· nate in its results. I therefore continued my reconnaissance until the scheme was completed and the points to be determined were all shown on the plane· table sheet. I then furnished tracings of the sheet to the commission· ers from each State. These tracings sho,rnd the projected scheme of triangulation, t11e locations of the standard points desired, the true "12-mile circle," and the curves which most nearly fitted all _the actu· ally existing points. Along with these I also furnished revised estimates for the expenses. of the survey, the estimated total being $3100. It may be well to dis· cuss this point a little further in this connectiou. Before I left Wash·

REPORT FOR 189i!-PART II.

207

ington I had prepared estimates calling for a much smaller sum. These were based upon what I was told in· the office of the probable extent of the work and were made before I had been on the ground. 1 liad been in the field but a short time when I perceived that the ideas of the work that I had received from others were quite inadequate and that supplemental estimates would be necessary. At the request of Messrs. Smith and Farra I deferred them ·imtil the reconnaissance was finished, when they were promptly sul>mitted. it is true that the final expense amounted to al.lout 17 per cent more than the amount named, but I am confident that this moderate increase would 1'1.ave been unnecessary but for a remarkal>le combination of untoward circumstances. \\'ith regard to the t-0tal amount expended, Mr. Smith told me that his own estimate of the cost had been considerably al.love my highest estimate. I think the total very reasonable for the amount of work which was done. By your authority I 11ext visited Washington and explained to you the con<litio11 of the work, estimates, etc. Upon my return to the field, as there appeared no prospect of u. meeting of tho commission, I took up the work at the east1:1rn end of the line an<l conneeted the "Ruins" of the old house with the triangu. lflitiou of pelaware. Hivcr. This point could not. be seen from the lleighboring stations on account of several gootl-sized trees which stood close to the edgo of the river. 'fhe owner of tho land OQjected so strongly to the destruction of these trees that another station was interpolated at the \vindmill, a short distance to the northeast of the '' Huius," and the latter point was.determined l>y an azimuth and measured distance· from the mill. After vh;itmg Newcastle, where observations were prevented by the dense haze~ which rendered the nearest signals invisible, I returned to :Newark and began putting up signals and marking· stations. Owing to the large nu111ber of stations, the hilly nature of the country, and the extreme heat of the weather, which was most exhaustihg l>oth for Ill.e11 and horses, this work was somewhat retarded, but in the last three Weeks of the month sixteen tripod signals aud four 11)-foot scaffolds Were built. :\fore time was lost in building the 4fl-foot tripod and scaffold at "Meetinghouse Hill," owing to the inexperience of my party in heavy·carpeuter work, and I found it necessary to again employ-Mr. Willis to build the signals at "White" and ''Centerville." Owing to other conflicting engag·ements, he was unal>le to finish them as promptly as desired, and some trouble was thus occaHioned. I was obliged to give up building the signal at "Londonderry" on account of the nu.expected opposition of the owner of the land. This person had offered 110 objections when consulted 011 the sul>ject, but when the lumbt:1r dealers were really to deliver the in[\terial he forbade them to do so, and When asked for an explanation demanded an exj.rnvagant bonus for the . JlrivHege of entry. In view of the delays already experienced, it was

208

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

deeided to do without that station and to "copdude" the triangles on the reconnoitering pole which was stan<li11g there, a correction being applied to each angle for eccentricity of the pole. Though less satisfTMJtory than if the l:ltation hatl been occupied, this method gave very good results: The dense haze which prevailed throughout Septcmuer was mm;t unfavorable for observatio11s of angles, and but little such work could be done. The same trouble continued throughout October, and on the mre occasions when .the·air was somewhat clearer the wind was so violent as to prevent work. Though1every possible opportunity was utilizcrl to advance the work, it was often impossible to see stations only 1 or 2 miles away, and many of the li11es were 6 or 8 miles long. Under these adverse co'nditions observations were made as rapidly as possible, work being continued till after sunset wheuev.er any signals could be seen. Early in November, having made a prl.'liminary computation of tlle elements of the curve from the partially completed observations, I began to lay out the line upon the grournl. This line, ,which Messrs. Smith and Farra had agreed to recommend to the commission, was composed of parts of two circles, the eastern part of such a. radius tlrnt it ,WOl\ld pass through the three guiding points-tire "H.uins," the "CoucordBethel" tree, and the "Kennett-Pennsbury" stump-and the western part of such a radius that, having a common tangent with the other at "Kennett-Pennsbury," it should pass through the point at which · the eastern prolongation of the northern boundary of l\farylaml, considered as a parallel of latitude through the corner stone, would eut the true 12-mile circle around Newcajgtle court-house. The weather now turned cold, with much rain an<l some snow, bttt the work was pushed a8 fast as po8sible. One grAat trouble in this work, as in the triangulation, was the o!Jstruction caused by woods. In the surveys of Maso1i and Dixon· and of Colonel Graham clear Hues of sight were opened through the woods and no compensation was made; but in this su~·vey the commission objected to cutting trees if it could poRsibly be avoided, and when it sometimes became necessary to clear a little, some of the landowners demanded exorbitant damages. 'fhe work of running the line was thus continued, witl.1 observations . of horizontal angles at intervals, as the weather permitted, until the 20th day of January, wllen the preliminary marking of the line was completed. On account of tlie almost arctic severity of the weather . pi:evailing at that time and for several weeks before, work wais then suspended until such time as the commission might select for their inispection of the line. In the meantime the initial and terminal monuments had been erected early in December, th.cir positions having been carefully determmed. Each stone was securely planted in a pit HI led in arouud it with a. cou1

REPORT !<'OR 1893-PAHT II.

209

<:rete hase of' broken stone and cemcut. 'J'he stoues for markiug the first. Ja rnill·s of the line were put 011 the gronml really for setting lwfore the worst weather set in and prevented the deli very of th A remai111ler for some tiurn. 'l'he wi11t.<~r weather dnri11g the last mouth of the work was of almost n11prece<le11te<l ;;everity for that latitude, the temperature for many <lays at uo ti1ne risiug above the freezing point and falling to 350 or .too F. helo\\' fr<>czing at night. 'l'hc deep snow, re111ai11ing a line, dry pow1ler in this inteuse cold, was <'Ontinnally lJlowu thl'Ongh the air in blinding clouds by the higll wiu1ls which prevaileu, all(! mauy of the roads were completely blocked to travel hy the drifts thm; formed. Fiel<l work under such co11dit.io11s was at.tended by many hardships, hnt was continued until each of' the monument statiom; Juul been 111arke11. .After the suspension of field work a bovc reforred to, .I returned to \Vasllington aml was oc<:npied with otlice \\'Ork while waiting for the .ioi11t <:ommission to insped the line nml to listen to any objections Which might be adva11ce<l ag·ainst approving- it. It seemed to he the opinion of the State surveyor;; that the com1nission wonl<l p<whaps make local modifications of the line in Ol'(let· to llieet the view:,; of the inhabitants. Unfortunately, the weather during February continne<l too severe for this inspection to be made by the commissiou, aml early in )larch l received 11ew instmctions dirc1~ti11g m11 to prepare for duty on the sur-· Vey of the bou111lary of southeastern Alaska. After co111rntu1watiug with l\Icssrs. Smith 1111d Farra nnd 1irnli11g- that it would be impossible to secure the inspection by the commission 1>efore the date ou which it would become necessary fo1· me to start for the westem coast, l retnmed to Delaware a111l wei;t over the line with ~he State surveyors, pointing ont the JH!sitio11 of the stubs and putting 111 additional reference markti, et<.;. Owing to the limited time at my disposal, 1 was not able to fully a.1i11ly a system of refinc1l checks t-0 test tl1e exact positiom; of tlrn lliouumeuts, which I had intended to employ if the commission decided lint to move the line laid ont. All of these po;;itio11s, however, are 11 1ldouhtedly qmte near then· true values, especially wl.tere the work Was controlled by triangniat1011 for 16 miles from the initial point. Between the Hi-mile point m11l the 2:.l-mile poiut there was 110 triau1,;'ulatiou, and the prnliminary line had been run out with a transit by hnll'-znile chol'<h· measurnd by telemeter. 'i'his method, while rapid and close enough for preliminary work, was 801 newhat lacking in preeision, arnl l had .intended to che~k 1t in case the <:oznmissio11 wu;hrnl to a<lhere to the circle by running out t.lw long chord between the en<l:::i of this li-nule arc aud then laying off rectangular or<liuates from tl;e chot·d to the uwuumeut stations.
S. Ex. l!J, iit. 2--14.

210

U. S:

COA~T

AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Finding· now. that l should not have time to do thif.; myself, l submit· ted the question to l\1es.srs. Smith and Farra for their decision as to whether this work 8houlcl lle left to them after the inspection by the commissiou or. whether some person should be employed to do it at once under my direction. '.l'hey preferred the latter course, and l engaged for the purpose Mr. W. B. Carswell, of \Vil111ington, the only surveyor whom I could obtain at ouce. Ile had not linishcd his work when l had to start for Alaska, and I was therefore compelled to tum him over to the impervision of Messri:;. Smith and Farra. I was later informed by l\Ir. Smith that after bec.:orning involved in some SP.rious errors Mr. Carswell had cor· recred his work and it had been accepted. I left the boundai·y on the 1st of April, and immediately afterwards the remainder of the monuments were delivered on the ground under the supervision of a membei· of my party. A few days later the joint commission went over the line, and after hearing the protests of some of the dissatisfied inhabitants of the border strip decided to accept the bound a1·y as staked out. The monuments at the milP. an<l half-mile points were planted immediately afterwards. 'fhe work thus completed was one that ga\'e me much labor and anxiety. It would have perhaps been more satisfactorily arranged in two i;easons, the first for the reconnaissance and tl1e triangulation, and thell, after the complete re1lnction of the observations and the comp.u· tation of the results, a seco11d shorter season for laying out :t111l mark· ing the line. As it was, I was compellod, while engrossed an<l exham;ted with the fiel1l work, to reduce my work aud go through th0 volnminous computations necessary to compute the curves and to provide for their loca· tion. Thil:-l work was, for the most part, done at night, so as not to interfere with the field work. These computations moreovei· had. to he revised from time to time as additio11al observations were obtained, Rince in or1ler to meet the calls of the commission for immediate results vreliminary computations had to be ma<le from reconnoitering angles. Throughout the season neither I nor the members of my party spared our best endeavors to adva1we the progress of the work, and while it took much loug·er than was originally expected, the increased time was due in part to the fact that the large amount of real work to be done was uot und.erstood or app1·eciated in the beginniug and in part to a Reries of unfortunate circumstances quite beyond my control. Ilavi11g thus review(\(} the principal features of my survey, I will pro· ceed to cxplai11 with some detail the methods or ohi;;ervation. of coDl· pntation, aJHl of location of monuments. As already stated, tlie reco1111aissance was made with the plane table, supplemented by other instruments. The angulil.r measures were made with Repeatiug Theodolite No. 153, an excellent instrument, haviug au

REPORT

FOi~

18!13-P AR'l' II.

211

8·inch l10rizontal circle divicle1l to five minutes of are aiul lH'OYided with three eqni<listaut. Yernicrs which read to five secomls of arc. The telescope, which ii; lifted from the Y's i11 reversal, has au object g·lass of !.! inches diameter, a i()('.al Imig-th of JG i11ches, and a magnifying power of abont 2!! diameters. Another eyepiece of higher power was provided, but was rarely used. All of the priiieipal angles were measured in sets of six repetitions, direct n11d reverse, t11e telescope being reversed in the mi<lclle of each set. The exvlemcut (or the difference between the angle awl :rntP) wmi always measnred immediately after the angle itself, a11<1 tho two results were combine1l to one by applying the correction necessary to make.the snm of the two e<1nal 3600. In general all tl1e possible angles at each station were measured and the l'esults were combined to giYe an approximate station adjustment. The excellenee of the irn;trnment is shown by the small corrections required in this atljnstrnent as well as by the small errors in closing· the triangles. 'l'he signals were carefully centel'ed, a11d gas-pipe poles of 2 inches diameter were used on the shorter lines, as combining economy a111l clearness of definition. After measuring t)J(I angles the sides or the triangles were successively computed, starting from the line "Londonderry" to "l\Ieeti11gl1ouse lfill," nsecl as a base. The length of this Hue is 221H-1·!)m, equal to 7!!817·7 feet, or about 13·8 mik·s. It is the Lagest Ii11e observl'd in the work, exeept that between "Grays IliIF' and "Centerville," which is ornr 3 miles longer, being 2775:Him, or 91054·6 feet. 'l'he shortest line of the rcgnlar scheme, "Smith to Northeast Corner of l\laryland," is only Hi8·1m,01" !:i5hi feet. 'l'he whole uum her of triangles in the scheme is 10.J-, of which 22 belong to the river triangulation of A.ssistunt H. ?ileade Bache, executed abont twelve years before. In 3fi of the principal triangles of my work the largei;t error of closure is 5"·'1, the smallest error ;1,ero, and the mean error was l"·GG. The triangle sides are computed by the nsual foi·mulm:

b =CJ r-in B cosec A; e =a. sin C cmwc A;
after applying the colTections for spherical excess and for error of closure. · 'l'he leogths of the trianglo si(fos having been computed, the latit.ude and longitude of each :station were obtained by the g-codetic formulm or
- dL - d L
d .ll
Ull(] -

= =

=

H cos Z.B Ir cos Z.B 111 /I·.
!-\Ill

dZ

= 1] =d

,l/

cos // si 11 i\.
l~OS ,,

z '··

+K +K

2 2

siu 2 Z.G + (<~ L) 2 D - lt l\ 2 si11 2 Z.B Rin 2 Z.C + h2 D, for short line;;;

.I _ -

rl /,

or

- dZ

11! i,;iu ;\,for short li11l·s;

the derivations of which formnlru, together with the factors A, B, C, JJ, E,

212

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

a.re given in tlie .Append!x No. 7 of the Heportofthe Superintendent of the Coast a111l Geodetic Survey for the year 188-1. 'J'lie;;e position computatio11s ilepen<l 011 the standard data for" Meetinghouse Hill" nnd '' J,1mdonderry" furnished. by the computing division of the Coa:-;t and Geodeti1: Survey. Each station was twice computed hy iudepeudent determinations from different points already known in order to obtain a comparison aml avoid errors. 'l'lte uumber of stations so computed was 54. Next, from these geographical positions I computed by the "inverse solution'' of the geodetic formulm the positiou of the poiut which, having tlie same latitude as the northeast corner of Maryland, should be exactly ~miles from the spire of Newcastle court-boilSe. 111 a precisely similar way I found the dist:uwe arnl azimnth of this initial point of the cnrve from the neighboring triangulation point "\Vhiteman/' established for this special purpose, arnl with these values known, the iuitial point was marked on the ground. By the same inverse solution were obtaine<l the llistances and dfrections of tho line;; joining the standard points of the curve, as follows: ''Initial point to Kmmett-Pennshury," "Ken11ett-Pennsbury to Concord-Retlwl," d(;01H:01'11-Bethel to Huins," "Ruins to Kenuett-Pennsbury." The t.i-iangle formed by the last three li11es may be considered a plaue triangle, it!':i spherical exee;.;s being letis than one-tm1th of' a second of arc. The radius of the circumscribing circle may then be comput-0d by the formula
ri

=

--------1-- --11- -! cos '> A cos ;, B cos '> C
-'

s

-'

-'

in which Sis t.he l1alf sum of the tliree sides iuHl A, B, ()are the three angles of the triangle. 'fhe radius thus fournl for the eastern part of the cm·ve is 20620·44111 , equal to <i7ttfi2·3 foet, or 1'.!·81 miles. The angle at the center of tho curvature between "Kennett-Pennsbury" and "Ruins" was fonnd by the formula A chord . l S 111 ;-, cp = r1
AH will lm seen by the acco111pa11yi11g· figure, the equal angles at" Ken·

c
~---=~'"""""-

11ctt-Pe11m1lmry" and "Ruins," between the chord and the radii, are then known, each being equal to !JOO - 1 q1.

2

'fhese three angles

must each be increased by one· third of the computed sphericnl excesH to obtain the true spher· ical angles. This correction, however, is only 0"·3 for each augle. The azimuth of the center of

REPORT FOR 1893-PART IT.

213

curvature from each extremity of the arc may uext be obtained, and the latitude and longitude of that point may be computed. "re next wish to fiml the radius of the western part of the curve, which, starting from "Kennett-Pennsbury," with a tangent common to tlle eastern arci must gradually approach the true 12-mile circle until it cuts it at the iuitial poiut. Obviously, as the two arcs have :1 com111on tang·ent at "Ke11uett-Pc11m;bnry," their centers of curvature will lie in the same line perpendicular to that taugeut. Referri11g once more to the figure, it will be seen that the angle at "Kc11i1ctt-Pe11nsbnry" between the chord of the arc ancl the center of curvature is equal to the difference of azimuth of these two directiom1, the azimuths ·of which arc already known. The correspon<ling angle at the initial point lias the same value and the anglo at the center will be equal to the diffore11ce betwee11 180::> pl ns the spherical excess (seven-tenths of a second) and the sum of the aboYe angles. 'l'hc chord and the three angles being thus known, the radius is readily computed by the formula
,J, chord .,.·. = sin --·--1 ()
~
+

It is equal to 18640·~ 111 , Gl.155·6 foct, or ahont ll·iiS miles. The latitude and longitude of thi;; secon<l cPnter of curvature are computed in the san)(l way as for the lin;t. The length of (·ach part of the curve was <~0111pnted separately by the formula
arc n°
c-~:

n

2

71''/"

j(i(f.

The western part is 10·8!!77 miles 1011g and the eastern part 11·6749 Il1iles. Thus the total length of the cm'\'C is 22·572(i miles, and if to tl1is we add the distance from tlrn initial point to the northeast corner of Maryland, which i;; 0·78fl3 mile, the whole length (on dry land) of the boundary between Pennsylvania a!l(l J)claware is found to be 23·3619 miles. After reaching the Delaware tho clrcuhu· boundary is supposed to continue to the New ,Jrrsey shore, as l>el:twarc claims all of the water Within tho circle. The angular value in each part of the curve of an arc 0110 mile long Il1ay be found by dividi11g· the number of degrees in that part by the length of the same in miles. For half-mile ares the value will be oueha]f as great. As the bonnd1t1·y mo1111ments ar(~ one-half mile apart, this last angle is equal to the angle of defiection from <'ach cboru to the ne.x:t one. In the western arc it equals 20 28' 24" and in the easteru arc 2°14' 09 11 · . The chord of the half-mile arc is equal to twice the product of the radius aud the siue of one-half the angle ~mbtcuded by the arc; i.e., oh=2rsin2o

214

U. S. COA8T AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The chord is Jess than the lialf mile by 0·.20 foot in the western arc and by 0·17 foot in the eastern arc. :Fractional chords are computed by similar methods. The geographical positions of each of the points one-half mile apart throughout the curve, counting from the initial point, cau now be compute<! by the aid of the data obtained as above. Then by the "inverse solution" the distances and directionR of tltmm monument stations from the tria11g11lation points nearest to them ca11 be computed. All of the computations above described will be found in fn]] in Part IV of this He1wrt. For applying the results of these computations to the location upon the grouud of the positious for the monuments five methods wel'e employed at different times, according to circumstances. The first method was to put up a ftag as near as possible to· the probable point and so as to be visible from two stations of the triangulation. The flag being determined from thes.e known points, the correction to the desired point of the curve was computed and applied. The second method consisted in running out with the transit two computed azimuth lines from neighboring triangulation points to tlle desired point, which is fixed by their intersection. The third method was to run out a single azimuth line as above, and to lay off on that line ,by direct measurement or by rei,;ectiOll on Hignals the computed distance to the desire<! point. The fourth metllod was to run out the curve hy half-mile c]iordH, making the constant deflection at the end of each chord. In the fifth method longer chords (of l and (i miles) were run out, and the intermediate points were determined by rectangular offsets. The engineer's transit with which this work was done was unfortunately not a very good one, the transverse plate level being particularly unreliable; but it was sufficiently good for the preliminary pui·poses intended at the time. The monuments, except the initial an<l terminal, the setting of which has been described, were put into the ground by contractors after I left the work. In addition to the above work, necessary for the location of the boundary line, an opportu11ity was taken during hours ummitable for other work to determine the position of the monument at the "tangent point." This determination was desirable in itself, as that of 11 point of the greatf'st importance; hut my principal reason for wishiug it made WRS the <lesire to explain, if possible, the discrepancy between the value given by Colonel Graham for the distance from tlie corner of Marylan<l to the 12-mile circle and that which I found to exist. The longitude of the tangent point was found to be almost identical with tbe longitude of the northeast corner of Maryland, showing that the line between those points is practically a meridian, ae it was intended to be. The distance from the tangent point to Newcastle

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PART JI.

215

court-house proved to be cousiderauly longer 'than it l1ad been considered, being about lil8 feet more than 1:3 miles and 110 feet more than the value obtained by Colonel Graham. His results were appareutly deduced from insufficient data, and as he does not give his method it is 1lifiicult to see how he ohtaiued such figures for this line mul for the other distances relatiug- to the cin~le which lie furnished. The above correction in the distance from the court-house to the tangent poiut, however, will no doubt l1eco1111t for a large part of the discrepancy. From this it will be seen that the whole of the 2\faryland boundary is outside of the .true 12.mile circle and that the Pennsylvania boundary touches that circle only at the initial point of the curve.

Circular boundary bef1oeen Pe11nBy1t,a11ia and Dela1rare. ··i--. ·---·· -··· ·-;- ----· ··-·
Stations.
------0

......
i
I
I
··------·

!:..:>
O';)

Latitude.

____ l_ _ _ _ _ _ I_________
I

I

Longitude.

Azimuth.

Bark azimuth.
i
' 0

To. stations.
··------

I Distance. I Logarithms.
,-- ---- --1 --- ----I I 22194·9 m. i 4·3462538
I
I

'

I

I

II

j

O

I

II

' I

I
I

0

I

II

Londonderry, Pa. Meetinghouse Hill, Del. Centerville, Del. \Yhitc, Pa. (;rays Iliil, Md. Grandview, Del. ::\lasonic Ilall, I>cl. Emanuel church spire, Del. Gow, Del. !'\ewcastle court-house, Dd. Deepwater Point, Sellers, Del. French, N. J.
~.

.)9 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39

51 42 49 45

50·5oji 75
I

52 42 37 48 47 42 33 33 33 33 30 29 28

50·4421319 40·121/ 02· 50

04

45"5ii 139
I

II

II 16·15 Meetinghouse Hill.

I
I

1

46·28oJ 75 14·97 00·43

i
Meetinghouse Ilill Londonderry 14431·9 23042·7
i

i 75
75

I

! 102 05
18 34 51 02 07 38 03

33

51

02·351298 151 51·69 22 "71 54·21 213 179 105 35 115 165

57 59 12 27

i 281

: 213 118 ' 331

48

SS
21 31 54 02 07 35 57 52 25 02 08 10 28 58 54 40 32 56 32 49
0

21 52 38 22 44 31 01 16 54 20 18 00 32 14 41 58 34 27 53 18 56 15
J

I 4·362533
I

36 47·6·) 42 39 39 42 39 41
44

i 75
I 75

.,. -:>
37
!2

l
I

Meetinghouse Hill Londonderry

8717·7 14384 ·8 13321 ·5 15198·4 429·6 13466·0 13829·0 18389·5

i 4·159325 i 3·940402
4·157903
!
i

..... ;-<
~

0 ;,..
lfJ

0

I 359 33
285 215
I

42·65 36·69 38·77 1y80

46 30 21

I 75
75 75

35·33

l 75
i

I

J.

44.451 75 53"75 I 75

I

43

59·28

I ''

H 46·83 I14 30 59 70 02 05 06·61 . 94 14 38 13 IO 44 50·13 i 113 28 44 : 191 58 30 30·58 i 50 56 44 I 103 42 07 56·39 : 42 34 55 7 56 40 i 31·80: 63 35 52 ' 129 50 09

294 345 294 250 274 193 293
II

I
J

! White i Meel inghouse Hill

! Meetinghouse Hill

4·124554 i 4·181797 2·63311 4·129239 4 ·140791 4·264571 4·144944 2·27218 4· 136677 3·696908 2·02534 3·69865 3·795941 3·582755 3·825914 3·770462 3 ·863880 3·4 11'7 2 7

>-3

z t::)
0 !:'::

>

Gmy; Hill Meetinghouse Ilill Centerville
I

0

1-Mcctinghouse Hill Ma.~onic Hall · Meetinghouse Hill Masonic Hall

' 13961 ·9 187·1 13698·6 4976·3 106·0 4996·3 6250·9 3826·1 6697"5 5894 ·7 7309·4 2622·6

t:i:J

t::)

>-3
[/)

0

c::

I Masonic Hall
I Gow 1\-lasonic Hall Gow Gow Deepwater Point Gow Sellers

:<

< ti::!

::::::

230

283 222 187 243 3o9

i

I
I

Ridgway, N. J.

39 39 39 ; 39

46 47

24-;8

r 75

26 27 26 25 23 22 25 25 25 45 45 47 47 46 46 46

Taggart, Del. Naamans Creek 2, Del. Green, :i'<. J. Sanderson, Pa. Raccoon lslancl, X. J.

29·86175 75

48 _ 17"55 47 0173 12·s6 59·3 2 27·91 27·65

I 75

; 39· 50 ; 39
!

i 15
75
75 75 75 75 75

51·11 I 57 28 ! 37·03 i 34 ! 331 I 01·00 1 18 57 I 13·49 : 104 154 50·91 42·07 29·37 31·00 31 ·53 12·86 00·37 13·49 20·03 48·6o 30·77 26·6c) 15
I IO

32 07

lJ
14

'237 208 ' 214 151 ' 198

JO

14
IO

06 32 26 54 13 14
II

Sellers French Sellers Ridgway Ridgway Taggart Taggart Naamans Creek 2 Kaamnns Creek 2 Green Green San<lersnn Green Raccoon Island Sloan's windmill

! 5228·1
5846·5 2285 ·s 3676·7 2717·2 3524·2 2597·5 47 13·8 6213·4 51 I I ·7 2797·1 2684·7 4095·7

5087·4

3·718342 3 ?06492 3·766899 n58977 3·565461 3·434114 3·547055 3·414558 3·673368 3 ·79333 2 3 ·708567 3·446709 n28904 3·612325 1 ·59824

34 25 25 48

56 17 58 08 31 42 43 14 27 15 29 54 49

55
14 16 12 02 26 49

30 09 03 12 06 07

i

! 237
~ 284 334 : 221 ; 198
i

i

41 18 44 144 351 256 258

00 25 47
IO

!

48 48 48

! Sloan's windmill, Pa.

I

; 39

i Ruins, Pa. and

Del.

I Terminal n;onument, Pa. ancl Del.

I
i

' i 39
'
I 39 39 39 39

04 Io 59 54 19 18 07
II

224 324 171 76 78

54 19
II

48

39·65

i 39 .48 27·92
44 43 43 43 43 10·99 12·21

l
I
I

l?::l
"d

~

:.:
'"3
~
l'rj

0

0

I Maharty, I>cl.
i
I

29 42
00

27 54 59
IO

i 290
: 198 ; 307 : 184 I 6o . 112 62 ' 186

: 195

27 41 59

46 06
IO

Grays Ilill White Grays Hill White Grays Hill Maharty Smith Maharty Grays Hill Maharty Maharty Pearson Kewcastle C. H. Kennett-Pennsbury

14185·8 43 13·9
1~542·2

4·151853 3·634867 4·098373 3·737955 4·081615 ; 3·519445 2·225526 3·533216 4·122452 I 3·368o78 I 3·382939 i 3 ·052807

j Rankin, I 1d.
I

i

19 127 4 240 292 242 6 257 230 157 290 224

j Smith, Del.

17·86 , 75 19·91 175

I Northeast Corner ~laryland
I Pearson, Pa.

37 19 17 04 30 31 37

35
19 18 04 31 30 38 12 54 05 48

14 27 49 14 50 27 42 02 48 05 49

! >
....
t""
'"3
~

"'
co

00

...

5469·6 12o67·4 3307·1 168·1 3413·6 13257·2 2333·9 2415·1 II 29·3

51 32
IO

I
I

29

I
I

i 39
!

I
I

5478175
20 85 , 7.s 19·9 1 i 75

Whiteman, Pa.

: 39 43 ; 39 43

'j Initial Point, l'a. ancl Del.
!

I

i

07 41 II 12 54 59 57 02 43 29

77
50 i 337
III

i I i

i

44

19311 ·961 4 ·2858264 ' 16898·15 4·2278391

I

i

1-:>
~

~

Cfrc1ila1· boundary bet1oee11 Pe1111sylt·ania and Delaioal'e-Coutinucll.

1\\'alnut, Uel.

Stations.

Latitude.
0

I

'

-Longitude.
o
.'I

Azimuth.
O

. ---·-:--1
Back azimuth.
0

To stations.

Distance .

. Loganthms:

I

00

t..:> ......

II

II

II

39 45
139 139

10·50

75 75 75

45 43 45

IJ/.

09·89 07 ·45
I

321 85

Mitchell, Del. Hoopes, l'a. Foulk, Pa. O'Neill, Del.
~tephen, ]~el.

46 00·69 47 23·05 44 ·90 39·62 31 ·43 19·57 26·71 24·58
1

15 41 353 48 62 02 305 350 332 70 13 93

45 . 17 16 24

141 265 173 242

17 39 48 01

21 27 34 05 40 21 07 10 15 42
I

Meetinghouse Hill White l\Ieetinghouse Hill Walnut Mitchell Walnut Mitchell Hoopes

39·14 17 ·22

39 47 39
39 39
39

75. 44 75

07 03 20 02 40 22 56 03 59 35 51 47 50 43 24 14 50 38 22 17 02 I ! 20 33 23 02 08 I I

125 08 170 20 152 41 :?50 55 193 273 59 50

47 47 48 49 49

42 35 ·50 40 43·09 42 39 37

' Mitchell Foulk Mitchell O'Neill Stephen O'Neill

75
75 75

McCarty, Pa. Cloud, Pa. Gregg, Del. Kennett-Pennsbury, Pa. and Del. Hamorton, Pa. Leach, Del. Twaddell, Pa.

50 95 o6·36 , 3o6 ' 29

I

39·57 18·81

39 39

i 75
I 75
75

I 23 . 59
307 91

230 49 I! 275 23 02 126 51 j2 209 21 58 203 01 239 18 127 23 271 06 123 252 30 59 13 41

3·755970., 3·614619 I i 3·78o391 3·518546 4414·0 . : 3·644836 4146·8 i 3·617710 '361n 3"558409 2062·4 3·314366 3144·.z 3·497511 2 425 ·5 3"384796 4430·8 3·646479 2686·4 3·429170 5675·1 4117·4 6o31 ·o 3300·2 2475·5 1413·8 3863·4 4059·6 488·0 3348·2 1362·4 2313·5 5905·9 5946·1 5101 ·8 7383'3 5368·3 982·7 3·393663 3·150402 3·586972 3·6o8485 2·68843 3·524811 3·134318 3·364275 3·771289 3·774234 3·707721 3·868252 3·729837 2·99241

s
f/.l
0 0
!;fl

>

P-3

ti

~
~

0 ti .t.<J

49 48·90 52 22·05

38 o6·63 37 33 55 ·56 38·94

303 23 52 72 48 o8 347 39 45 24 34 50 71 37 00 124 18 30 61 14 47 --~2 o6 o6

24 23 47 o8 19 43

I , I . Gregg
I . Cloud

Stephen McCarty _Centerville "Cloud

1-3 0

....

a:i

~

c:: < t::J
~

39
39

167 40 204 33

50 op9 I 75 50 38·75 I .75

39

33 44·62

251 34 49 304 15 45 241 12 40 L72 o6 10

I.Centerville Hamorton I Centerville I Leach

Centerville Cloud

Grariogue, Del.

39 49 47·52 / 75 34 50·81

I
!
I
I

I
39

Point Lookout, Pa.

50 22·22 ' 75 16·35 75 75 75 75

35

, Talley, Del. Perkins, Pa.

39 50 39 39

34 33 32 44 43 47 45 45 . 47 47 47 33

50 · 38·05 50 20·29 58·99

I Concord-Bethel, Pa. an<! Del.

I Seal, Pa.
! Southwood,
l'a.

39 45

I Crow, Md. I
! Williams (flag in tree),
I
I

39 47 08·72 ; 75 ' 39 41
Del.

·

I

250 25·85 258 28o 35·50 240 98 01·65 91 42 27·6o 1289 83 54·841 13 157 34·51 342 26o 40·18 10·45 o8·16 30·6o 29·16 20·04 36·0:.i 255
I

224 52 58 26 59
01 19 16 36 12 58 17 10 28 52 56 14 49 49 34 o6 46 29 01 08 16 41 oo 25 43 rn oo oo 58 26 o8 57 16 37 08 31 45 59 26 31 oo 19 31 03 38 43 07 14

{ 44 70 1 78 100 6o 278 271 222 109_ 263 193 337 I 162 I 8o 75 181 231 330 1 233 1 ' 330 187

53 40
27 02 20 16 35 I2 58 21 07 28 · 52 56 16 52 41 32 04 44 27 01 09· 1841 oo 33

45
48 19 33 28 30 02 35 20 66 09 25 21 57 52· 43 55 16 42 18 33 07 42 07 50

2230·2 1813·7 [ Twaddell 246o·4 Leach 2584·2 Twaddell , 1393·3 Point Lookout 1210·7 Twaddell rn21·8 Leach I 1300·7 Ruins w499·o6 Kennett-Pennsbury ' 8119·47 Walnut 1537·8 Hoopes 2798·6 Mitchell 2194·7 Stephen 4138·2
/

I Leach

I Twaddell

I I I

1

I

3·J<J834 3·25856 3·39100 3·41232 3·14403 3·08302 3·00936 3·11418 4·0211504 3·9095275 3·186l19 3·44694 3·341382 3·616816 3·867567 3·966694 3·69w6o 3·854811 3·684508 3·866457. 3·61429 3·54369 3·52954 2·49458 , 3·9090182 4·2865646

~

o

~
~

~
.-

47·87 26·67

75
75

Meetinghouse Hill Grays Ifill Grays Hill Crow
Grays Hill

39 139 39 39

38 38

I.
.,

Iron

Hill

?,

Del.

20·42 , 75

Road, Md. Flat, :\Id.

39 oo·rn 38 50·03 38 56·95 39 1377 14 ·78

I 75
75 75 75 75 75

I

, I I
1

Tallf.ent ;\fonument, Del. and :Md.

·

39 39

51 150 53 150 7 287 282 1173 18o J 266

Crow
Grays Hi11

I

w7

Williams Williams Road N. E. Comer Md. Newcastle C.H.

: 102 1353 o 86

Center Er.stem. Arc. Center Western Arc. Bocndary

Mon~ment No. t

39 40

34 01 ·95 46

I I

I

I

7371·7 9261 ·8 4909·8 7158·3 4836·2 7352·9 4114·2 3497·0 3384·9 312·3 8109·95 I 19344·8

! ~
, ..
-

~

~

t::

I

i

39 43 44·58

15·69 ! 290 14 46 19 oo 34

I

\ 110 22 , 1.9) oo

35 27

I ce.n:erW~tem Arc ! 18639·97 \ 4·270445 I l~ I Imt1al Point I 8o4·6o 2·90558
~
1

,

.

Circ11lar bo1rndary beticeen Pe1111sylrania a11d Dela10111·e-Couf.iuucd.
Station:-..

;~~~u~~~- --;o~:git~:~c-. -~--- -~\-~~~~~~;~
-- ------------ -·- ·- --------II
0

-

--

-:--Hack

nzim-ut~1~
I II

-

·-;o:~tions.

---------- . - -;------ -----II

II

o

Boundary Monument C\o. Boundary Monument C\ o. Boundary )lonument ::S-o. Boundary :\lonument Ko.

1 1 2

39

44 0S·S5 j 75 44 44 45 45 32·70 56·06

t

'

46 45 45 45

03·31 49·59 . 34·55 18·21 oo·6o

21 23 26 28 31 33 36 38 41 43 46

29 57 26 54 23 51 20 49 17 46 15 43 12 41

06 39 13 47 22 59 36 14 52 31
11

201 203 2o6 208 211 213 216 218 221 223 226 228 231

28 57 26 54 23 51 20 49 17 46 14 43 12

58 30 03 37 11 47 23 00 38 16 55 35 15
I

!lfonument Jl."o. 1 Monument No.
I

I ~=~~~:.-1~oga:1t~~s1 ---- ---1------1 fl/. ! j So4·f,o I 2·90558 1
So4·6o 804·60 So4·6o 804·6o 804 ·6o 804·6o So4·60 804·6o 804·6o So4·6o So4·60 804·60 804·60 So4·6o So4·6o

0

1:-:l 1:-:l

39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39

75 75

I
I

2·90558 2·90558 2·90558 2·90558
2

I
!

!;fonument No. 1t Monument No. 2 Monument No. 2t ::\fonument No. 3 Monument !\o.

s
fl2
0 0

2~

1S·89 ; 75

Boundary \Ionument Xo. 3 toundary )!oaument ::'\0.

41·16; 75 45 75 75 75 75 75

,...,
':::: 0
0

r;;
~

31

46. 02·83 46 46 47 47 47 47 48 48 23·84 44 ·17 03·77 22·61 40·65 57·86 14·20

44 41·77 44 44 43 43 42 42 41 41 41 40 2173 00·54 38·23 14·83 50·41 24·99

·90553

i·ound;ry I;!onument C\o. 4 l'oundary Monument Xo.

3!

2 ·90558 2 ·9055S
2

41

Monument No. 4 Monument No.
4~

t:.1
tj

Boundary )Ionument Xt>. 5 Boundary Monument Xo. 5~ J;oundary Monument :\o. Boundary )fonument Xo.
ro~ndary

·90558

Monument No. 5 Monument No.

2 ·90558
2

t:.1 ,.., .... C"l

o
6~

I 75
75 75

St

·90558

c::
~

l/J

Monumer.t :\o. 7

58·63 I 51 31 ·37 03·28 34·39 53

I

I

48

51 32 14 56 39 22

Monument No. 6 Monument No.

2 ·90558 2 ·90558
2 2 2

.._'tj

--:1

I
!

6~

!'<

Boundary Monument :\o. 7 ~ Boundary Monun,cnt Xo. 8 Boundary Monument :\o.
S~

29·65175

233 40 57 236 og
238 241 38 07 38 20 03

Monument No. 7

·90558 ·90558 ·90558

48. 44·18

39 48

57'75
10·35

l
I

75 75

56 09 58 61 38 07

I Monument !\o. 7!
1·

Monument No. 8

'Boundary Monument 1'\o. 9

39 49

75

40 04·77

1 Monument No.

8!

~

804·60

2·90558

Bound .ry Monument No.

9~

49
49

21·95 32·53
42·oj

75 39 34·46

I

63

36 05

1243

35 46

Monument No. 9 Monument No.
9~

804·6o

2·90558

Boundary Monument No. 10 Boundary Monument No. 10} Boundary Monument Ko. 11 Boundary Monument No.
ll ~

75 39 03·541 75
75 75 38 38 37 36 36 35 35 34 34 33 32 32·05 00·05 27·63

66
68 71

04
33 02 21 35

50
34 01 01 31

i 246
248 251 253 255 257

04 30 33
Ol

fo4·6o 8o4·6o 20620·41 8o4·62 8o4·62 804·62 8o4·62 804·62 804·62 804·62 804·1b 804·62 8o4·62 804·62 8o4·62 8o.i·62 8o4·62

2·90558 2·90558 4·314299 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2.90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90§59 2·90559 2·90559
t:=j

14 40

Monument No. 10 Center Eastern Arc Monument No.

49 49

5o·55 58·03

IOl

I

'

73 75

20 40 35 49 IO 40 IO

Monument No. 11 Monument No.
II~

Boundary Monument No. 12 Boundary l\fonument No. 12t Boundary Monument No. 13 Boundary Monument No.
13~

50 04·52 : 75 IO·o2 ' 75 14·52 18·00 50 20·48 75 75 75 75

54·861 21·78 48·451 14·91 41 ·22

77

50 01 31 02 33 03

Monument No. 12 l\fonument No.
12~-

~

80 04 19 33 48

:?OD 04 262 264 266 269

'"d 0

I 82
I

>-'l
'-:;:I

~

18 40 33 47 02 16 31
II

Monument No. 13 Monument No.
13~

Boundary Monument No. 14 Boundary Monument Ko. 14! Boundary Monument No. 15 Boundary Monument No.
15~

I

84 86

07·441

41 12 42 13

Monument No. 14 Monument No.
14~

~
CJ()

0

<D

22·37
50
50 21 ·79 20·19

75
75

T
~ ~
.....
!""<

17 93 95 31

04
35

271 273 275 278

Monument No. 15 Monument No.

Boundary Monument No. 16

1st

46 06

45
00

44
14

Monument No. 16 Monument No.
16~

100 102

15 29

06 36

28o 282

14 45 29 15

Monument No. 17

-~fonument~~~l-..-~4·6~1. 2·90559
N) N) ,......

Ciro11la1· boundary
-------*Stations.
0

bel1~ee11

Pennsylt'a11ia and Delatea1'11-Continued.
Azimuth.
0 /

~

Latitude.
II
0

Longitude.
II

Bo.ck azimuth.
o /
11

i
I

To stations.
---- --

- - - ---- ----· - - - - - - - - - i ·
11

-1---- - - , I ·

Boundary Monument No. I8t Boundary Monument No. 19 Boundary Monument No. 19! Boundary Monument No. Boundary
~lonument

39 49 57·01 39 49 49.40 39 49 40·81 31·27

75 29 39·75 75 29 07·39
75 28 35 ·44

104 44 o6 1o6 58 36

2B4 43 45 286 58 289 291
!

i Monument No.

18

I Distance. I Logarithms. I m I i i 8o4·62 , 2·90559
I

t.,:)

t.:>

15

I Monument No. 18!
Monument No. 19 Monument No. 19! Monument No. 20 \ Monument No. 20~

l

I

I

804·62 804·62 8o4·62 8o4 ·62

I 2·90559
'

~
r:JJ

109 13 05
Ill

12 45· 27 14 43 12

2·~59

20
20~

39 49 39 49

i 75
75

28 03·95 27 27 26

27

34

2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559 2·90559

No.

20·7811 75

32·97 1. 113 42 03 02·54 32·72 115 56 31

293 41 56

c 0 > al

"-3

Eo:mdary Monument No. 21 Boundary Monument No. 2It .Boundary Monument No. 22

39 49 09·37 39 48 57·05

: 295

i
!

75

118 10 59 120 25 27

i I 298 10 40

·

\ Monument No. 21

I
:
'

i

804·62 804·62 8o4·62

§

>

I 39 48 43·84175 26 03·55

! 300

25

08

j Monument No. 21! I

I

c;-:i
t.:i:j

-------------

------------- ----- __ ' _____ ,_________

__ _L ______ .

0 t::l
t.:i:j
~ .... c

Ul

~ < t_J:j :<

U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report 1893- Part II

No.IO

\;!."'!".:"~'.. ''>

'~',
\

'' ' ' ' '
\

'

---------'

A
... _...

N

1

---"'{

A.

' ' '

''

'

'

'

'
'

'

''

''

'

'

\ \

'

~
'

'' '

''

'

I

I

\..

]\. \

I I

A
I

!It

'I
I

~

WILMIJ'i'GTON

~
· - · - - - - - · -~·~'!·~-

~
~

'Y
S!eetch, or the Trian.gcdation.

A.
~
~

f"or the Survey or the New Line as l,a,id, ou..t. in. 1892

q;

ScC£1.e · Staude Miles
o
1 ·

I

._

I

\)

~

UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
APPENDIX No. 9-REPORT FOR 1803-PART II.

PROCEEDINGS o~,. THE GEODETIC CoNPERENCE,
llll:LI> AT

W ASHING'rON, D. 0.,
.:rANUAHY g

·ro

FlDHHUAHY

28, 1804.

Blank page retained for pagination

PROCEEDINGS OF THE GEODETIC CONFERENCE.

00 N

'J~ EN '1

1

S.
Pal,l'l.

General report ...·.................·..................... -· .............·..· Alls tracts of tho reportR of tbe committee!! .............................. . R<Jconnaissance report, abstract of ................................. . Base liue rnport, abstract of ........................................ . Triangulation report, abstract of .....................·.............. Astronomical r<Jport, abstract of ................................... . Hypsometry report, abstract of. ......................... ~ .......... . Alasko. re11ort, abstract of..........·................................ lt1strumcnts report, abstract of. ................................. , .. . Office and fioltl relations, al>11tmct of ................... ' ........... . Arcs report, abstract of ....................................·........ Magnetics report., abstract of ........................... : ........... . Gravity report, abstract of. ........................................ . Equipment report, abstract of. ..................................... . Proceedings of tho conference .....................................·.... · ... . Members of tho conference ............................................. . Subjects enggostell by tho Superintendent for consideration ............. . Orgunizatiou of tho couforouce and of its several committees ........... . Wood ward, Prof. R. S., synopsis of address of ............·.·............ Harkness, Prof. \VHliam, U. S. N., synopsis of address of ...·............ Flattening of tho earth-a table-by Prof. William Ho.rknoes ........... . :R Proceedings at adjournment of tho conference ....... ····'· ............. . econno1ssanco Committee, report of....................................... . , n Outfit and instruments .................................·................ ase Lines Committee, report of.......................................·..... Spai ...·...............................·.....··.............·.......... lndiu. .·.....................·....··.....·............................... .Bavaria ............................................................... . Sweden ..........·...................................................... Bessel apparatus .........·.............................................. Brunner appara tns ...·.....·....·............. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Russia ................................................................. . Auetrio. ............................................................·.... Lako Survey of the United States .........................·...... · · · · · .. Repsohl apparatus ....... : .......·..................·................... Coast and Geodetic Survey ....·.......··.......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Woodward ateel bar in molting ice ..................................... . Secondary con t no t ·Bl"de . 1 apparat ne ......··...·........................... ~::~e~~~o ....·...... ······ ......·.··..···............................... G · bases of tl10 world, a table of..··..·..·...·..·.·.·.........·.·. ~-odetic bases of tho United States, a table of...··..···............ ' .... B lll1ary base lines, United Sta.tee Coast and Geodetic Survey, a. tnble of.. ase lines etatltitios, a t11ible of.···.·.············. ~ ·····.·.. · · · · · · · · · · · · · s; Ex. 19, pt. 2-15 225

229

231 231 232
234

237 238 23!)
2.U

241 242 242 243 244 245 245 246 247 248 249 250 251 251 253 25-1 254
255

256 256 256 257
258

258
258

259 259
260

260 261 262
264 265

266

226

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Bnso Lines Committee, report of-Continued. Page. Tho site of tho baso line ...... _..................·....·.....·....·.·.... 267 Field procedure ................... ·····--··· ........................··.. 267 llnse measures, accuracy attainable ...... _.. _... ____ ... __ . : ...... _.... __ . 268 Base line, number of measurements of a.----~-·----· ................ ·--· 270 llaso lines, frequency of. ___ ............................................ . 270 Base meaRurcment, relation of the accuracy of, to triangulation._ ....... . 270 Recommendai;ions ......... _.............................. _............. . 271 Triangulation Committee, report of ......................................... . 272 Object of triangulatiou _............... _............................... . 272 Classification .......................................................... . 272 Primary triangulation .................. _............................... . 273 Tertiary triangulation ..................................................· 273 Secondary triangulation .............. _................................. . 273 Adaptation to the surface of the ground ............. _.................. . 273 General form of main triangulation ........................... _........ . 274 Geometrical composition of a triangulation ............................. . 274 Frequency and length of base lines .................... _................ . 274 Accuracy of a triangulation ............................................ . 275 280 Interstate and international boundaries ................................. . Boundaries along a meridian ............................................ . 281 Roundaries along parallol of latitude .......................... _........ . 282 Boundaries aloug obli11ue line .......................................... . 283 Instrumental outfit .................................................... _. 284 Method of obsorvat.ion .. _...... _........ __ ............................. . 286 Lost motion and stress in repeating thoo!lolite8 ......................... . 288 Outside objects to be determined ....................................... . 288 28!J Signals and scaffolds ................................................... . 291 Marking of stations .................................................... . 292 Incidental observations ................................................ . Explanatory note to accompany map, showing the state of triangulation 292 in the United States in January, 18!JL ................................ . 293 Astronomical Committco, report of ......................................... . 293 Time and longitude ................................. - .................. . Differences of longitude in296 Europe-a table .................................................... . 297 United States-a table ............................................. . Double determinationfl and closing of circuits inEurope-a table ..................................................... . Unitod States-n ta l1lo ............................................. . Astronomical difference of longi tucle from lati tu de and roci procnl azimn thfl. Difference!! of longitude from azimuth nrul rociprocul zenith tlistunees ... . Instruments nRell for longitude work on the continent of Europe ........ . Transit iustrurnonts-u talile ........................................... . Latitude, methods of obsen·ution and instruments ..................... .. Azimuth, instrument!! .................................................. . Hypsometry Commit.tee, ri<port of. ..................... _................... . Leveling in foreign countries ........................................... . Precise levels in the United Statos ..... , ...................·............ Recent work with the engineer's ln·ecise lovd ........................... . Detachc<l points-trigonometricnl leveling .............................. . Memorandum in regard to almormal refraction near the surface of the ground ...·.........................................·................. Alaska Committee, report of ....................................... - .·...... Triangulation, proposell scheme of, for southeast Alaska ................. . Base lines, gravity experiments, ote., in Alaska ....·............. - ..·.·..

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Instruments Committee, report of ...............· " ·......................... Instruments for astronomical work, list of.... ·.......................·... . Instruments for horizontal 1mgloe, list of................................ . Repeating thcotlolitc8, list of. .......................................... . Astronomical instruments, descriptions of............................... . 'fhcocloli te8 ............................................................ . Office nnd Field nclatious Committee, report of............................. . Hccortls, their prepar11tion, duplicntion, and transmission to office·....... . Field ~omputations, tlcgreo of accuracy required ....................... . Accounts .............................................................. . Instruments, their shipment to aucl from the field ....................... . }1iscollnneous .......................................................... . Circulars .............................................................. . Correlation of tho operating department uncl accounting system of tho Coast and Gciocletic :Survey-a p1tpcr by .John W. Parsons, disbursing agent ............................................................·.... Ares, report of Committee on Measurement of ............................... . Magnetics, report of Committee on ..................................·....... }lethods nml instruments·of tho Coast and Gcoclotie Survey U8 compared with those of other countries ........................................ . RusHi:m universal instrument, tho ...................................... . English instrument, the ............. , .............·..................... . French, magnetometer nncl dip circle used by tho ....................... . Italy, magnetometer usc<l in ........................................... . }fognetic surveys of different countries, mcthocls of ..................... . Gravity, rc111ort of tho Committee on ....................................... . England mentioned .................................................... . Franco montionotl ...................................................... . Austria mentioned ..................................................... . Russia montionecl ...................................................... . Italy, Sweden, Switzorlancl ............................................. . Apparatus, description of .............................................. . Investigation, proposed outline of ...................................... . Equipment, report of Committee on ........................................ . Operations concl.uctcd b~· lnncl.ln a thickly settlecl country·........................................ . Jn a Rparscly settled connt.ry ........................ ·---~- ........ :. In nn undeveloped country ........................ , ................ . In nn nrid country ................................................. . Operations conducted by waterOn inlaml waters in a settfo<l country .............. L . _ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · On inland w11tors in an unsettlocl country ........................... . On largo or partly protected waters ................................ . SUPPLEMENT.
l.P.:TTEns f'ROM ASSISTA!'!TS ANI> OT!rnns, AlllllmssF.:1> TO Tim CllAll!)IAN

227
Pai:e.

339 339
340 340 3-10

342 3·15 345 346
347

347
347

348

349

360
363

365 365 366 367 367 368 369 370
371 371 371 371 371

372
374 374

375 375
37tl '

377
377

379

o~·

Letter from.:.... Aug.F. Rodgers, Assistant ............................................. . A. 'l'. Mosman, Assis taut ................................................ . Herbert G. Ogden, Assistant .... _, ...................................... . Henry L. \Vhiting, Assist.ant ........................................... . Edward Goodfellow, Assist.ant .......................................... .

Tim CONFERENCE.

381
:l84

396
400 405

228

U. S. COAST AND. GEODETIC SURVEY.

Letter fromPal(e. Frank Walley Perkins, AsRistant, snlimitting paper prepared liy Foreman E. E. Torrey on signal building. .. .. .. . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . .. . 406 Gershom Bradford, Assis taut . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . 414 Spencer C. Mccorkle, Assistant.......................................... 415 F. D. Granger, Assistant................................................. 416 A paper by Edwin Smith, Assistant, on errors of graduation in a threemicrometer microscope position theodolite, and a method for eliminating them in the measurement of horiwntal angles........................... 419 Memoraµdum submitted by \V. C. Hodgkins, Assistant, on certain appliances used in the precise leveling work of tho Survey...... .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. . . 422 Letter fromW. I. Vinal, Assistant................................................... 424 Edwin H. Fowler, draftsman............................................ 42'1 ILLUSTRATIONS. Cross section of lbanmr, b1ise bar. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . . . . . . Boundary along a parallel of latitude........................................ Boundary traced on an astronomical parallel ........ _................... __ .. State of the triangulation in January, 1894, completed, commenced, or in progress an cl prospective ........ _................. _.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. Distribution of the principal astronomic stations occupied by tho Unito<l States Coast and Geodetic Survey for latitude, longitude, and azimuth, to Janmu·y, 1894............................................................. General scheme of standard levels for tho United States...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Arcs measured or llrojected within the limits of the 'United States or close to its border................................................................. Pendulum stations in the United States .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. Pendulum stations in Alo.ska ........ _......................... .. . . .. .. .. .. .. Pendulum stations in Europe................................................ Section of observing tripod . · . .. . . .. .. . . .. .. . . . .. .. . .. .. . . . · .. .. .. . . .. . .. .. . Position readings of microscopes .. .. .. . .. . . . .. . . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . . Improved appliances for precise leveling . . . .. . .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. 255 283 283

293

304 330 363 374 374 374 408
421 423

GEODETIC CONFERENCE.

GENERAL REPORT.
UNITED STATES COAST .A.ND GEODETIO SURVEY,

Washington, D. C., February 28, 1894. Sm: The Geodetic Conference called by you convened at Washington on January 9, 1894. The details of its organization are appended as a preface to the reports of the committees to which the duty was assigned of collating necessary facts and formulating them for the consideration of the Conference. .A.n invitation was extended to members of the office and field force not members of the Conference, as well as to others interested in the subjects under coi1sideration, to give expression to their views on matters relating to the geodetic operations of the ·Survey. The Conference ,desires here to make grateful acknowledgment to those who responded in writing, as well as to those who, by personal attendance and verbal communications, gave their valuable time. Profossor Harkness, U.S. N., addressed the Conference on the various lilethods of determining· the earth's figure. Professor Woodward, of llolumbia Oollege, New York, gave an account of base measurement ~ith steel tapes, and discussed, in response to questions, various snbJccts relating to the work of the Survey. Professor Gore, of Columbian lJniversity, Washington, D. C., evinced his interest by being present at several meetings, in which he took part, while Professors Buchanan, ~f '.l'ennessee, and Hoag, of .1\1 innesota, Acting Assistants, United States 0 ast aud. Geodetic Survey, shared the labors of the Conference for l>art of the time during which it was in session. The' task assigned to the members of the Conference 'vas the consideration of. the geodetic methods as now practiced, the discussion of the application of these methods to the duties assigned by law to the Coast ;,nd Geodetic Survey, and the comparison of the means employed in 0 . reign countries·for similar purposes, with the object of suggesting Jinprovements in regard to accuracy and economy. . 'rhe general plan of the geodetic operations followed by the Survey ~s that outlined by Mr. F. R. Hassler and approved by President Jeffer. hon an~ l\fr. Madison, Secretary of State, and subsequently prescribed by ~win the" Basis for the reorganization of the Survey" (approved Y .!:'resident Tyler, March, 1845).
229

230

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The wise prevision of those· who promoted and approved these plans bas been shown in this, that the latter proved themselves sufficient, without material modification, to meet the changed conditions caused by the acquisition of uew coast line by the United States, the extension of the triangulation inland, aud for the determination of geographical positions in the interior. In the early days of our Republic the. great migration of peoples in and to the United States, and the settling of vast areas hardly known previously to geography, rendered a sole reliance on geodetic meth?ds inapplicable to surveys, the main purpose of which was the demarcation of Government lands for settlement. To meet the necessities of the case the excellent system of rectangnlar land surveys was applied, which is well adapted to the large areas of level land in this country. For certain purposes it is, however, insufficient, as shown by the important trigonometric surveys of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, where systematic improvements ordered by Congress could only be based 011 extensive and accurately correlated and detailed surveys, and where, therefore, trigonometric methods were fouud necessary in order to supplement the system and adapt it to the ordinary use for which surveys are made. The older StatfS neither received nor required tlie rectangular subdivision, and, therefore, snch States, usi11g tl1e work done by the Survey as a basis, have adopted the trigonometric method, which, moreover, is also being applied in States subdivided on the rectangular plan. In view of these facts, and of the experience of all ·Bnropean countries, not to 111ention India, the French possessions in northern Africa, the English in southern Africa, and the Dutch East Indies, that trigonometric surveys are necessary, it seems safe to assume· that the inland geodetic operations of this Survey will, in addition to meeting an existing demand, benefit future generatio11s in this country as much as those along the coasts have already benefited the present. The practical bearing of these views 011 the subjects submitted to the consideration of the Conference has been taken into account in the discussion of all the questi01is as to th(\ location of the trigonometric schemes already called for in the work of the Survey, as well as those likely to be required for tlrn purpose of relating· the local surveys to the general map of the country. The need of association of bodies pmsuing the higher branches of culture in the various countries was early felt in the case of geodesy, and it must be considered fortunate and beneficial for Loth parties that the United States, by the li~erality of Co11gress in 1889, was able to join the International Geodetic .Association for the determination of the earth's figure and size, and thus add its influence and co11tribute its share toward the realization of this object. It must not be supposed that the labors of this organization were rather theoretical than practical. On the contrary, their eminently practical character throws ·

REPOR'r FOR 1893-PART II.

231

light on all° branches of geodesy and surveying; and it was made the duty of the Conference convened by you, aud one of its objects, to compare the various methods pursued by other nations with those used at home. The Conference has applied itself to this labor with a view of pointiug out the means by which, or directions in which, the system pursued by the Survey would in any way be improved in accuracy and rapidity of work as well as in ecouomy, so as to produce results at once available as well as enduring. The su"Qject-matter submitted to the Conference comprises a wide range of applied science, dealing with the geodetic (inclusive of hypsometry), the astronomic, the mag-netic, and the gravitation work of the Survey. The suggestions made as the outcome of the delibera-: tions cover not only the present conditions of the work, but prepare the way for. such future work as the legitimate development of the Survey would seem to demand. To expedite business and to secure its best consideration the Conference distributed the work among a number of committees, as already stated, particularly selectell to include those members who had more special knowledge or experience of the subject assigned to them. The iuembers of each committee contributed to the preparation of ~he report, which, after full discussion, was submitted by its chairman to the conference at large, where it received its final consideration before adoption by a majority vote. The committee reports thus prepared will be submitted iu full. The deductions drawn from them by the Conference and the conclusions reached are herewith briefly stated for your convenience. The reasons for them can, i11 general, be gathered from the reports themselves, tbou.gh many facts and details which were considered have not found a place in them.
ABSTRACT OP ltEPOR'.1.' OF 'l'lIE COitL:IHTTEE ON IU~CONNAISS.A.NCE.

The committee uses the term "reconnaissance" to·eml>race all those investigations of a region to be triangulated which precede the field Work, base measurement, awl the measurement of angles, and to comprise the selection of the most feasible chain or network of geometric ~gures, the location of base lines, the character of the necessary preparations, and the collection of information concerning the facilities available for carrying out the proposed scheme. All reconnaissance should be thorough ancl exhaustive, and develop all possible scheme1::1 of triangulation. It sliould afford information by Which economy and rapidity of execution can be obtained. When ~:ichaustive, it will lead to the simplification of the geometric figures. n no case should geometric elegance of a scheme be sought at the ~~ense of reasonable economy. Jn the interior of the country the Igbest peaks ai:e frequently covered with cloncls and should not be Used as triaugulatio11 points if it can be avoided.

232

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC 'SURVEY·

.A simple chain of triangles.is recommended as the most easily adapted to the most complex orography. Pentagons or quadrilaterals, with central points, also readily conform to the coufiguratiou of the country, however complex or. difficult it may seem. It is recommended that sites for the location of bases should be looked for at every eighth to tenth figure of the scheme of triangufation, according to its character and scope. Before taking the field t11e officer should study all available maps of the region and familiarize himself with the lines of travel, locations of towns aud villages. Notes in the field can not be too full. Horizontal and vertical measures should be taken on all prominent o~jects. Approximate latitudes and azimuths should be observed, as well as the magnetic bearings of every notable object. The entire horizon 8hould be sketched, and rough topographical sketclies made to show main ridges, water courses, etc. The atmospheric conditions should be uoted and the :f',wilities for obtaining water and forage. The committee coucludes with Rome suggestions in regard to instrumental outfit.
ABSTRACT 01;· REPORT 01" 'l'IIE COMMITTEE ON BASE LINES.

The committee classifies the base apparatus in use under three general heads: Contact apparatus, comprising compensating, bimetallic, and mono metallic bars. Optical apparatus, comprising bimetallic, monometallic, and bars in melting ice. Steel tape aud wire apparatus. They then give a condensed statement of recent measures in Europe and India. Brief descriptions, instances of their application and possibilities, are given for the Colby, Bessel, Brunner, Struve, Austrian, and. United States Lake Survey Uepsol<l apparatus. The various forms of apparatus used on or devised for the Coast and Geodetic Survey are mentioned, such as the Hassler bar, the Bache-Wurdemann, the Schott, the secondary contact, the Woodward steel bar in melting ice, the Eimbeck duplex, and the steel tape. As detailed descriptions of all these forms appear in the Coast Survey reports, they are not repeated here, but their principles are stated, results of their use, and, when possible, instances of their ·comparative uses are quoted and recommendations made concerning the partic'ular classes of bases they are adapted for. Foreign reports do not contain sufficient data upon wpich to base statement of cost, and only in two instances do we find any record of the number of officers and men required for a measurement abroad. · Of the more recent forms of apparatus tried at the Coast and Geo· detic Survey, particular mention is made of the Woodward steel bar

REPORT

FO~

1893-PART II.

233

in melting ice, used in four measures 'of one kilometre of the Holton Base, with this expression of opinion: "The salient facts resulting from the experiments made, then, appear to be that with the 5 steel b!\;r in melting· ice, whereby the temperature error is eliminated, a base line can be measured with a degree of accuracy hitherto mrn.pproached. In' economy of operation it is little, if any, inferior to the Brunner apparatus now used abroad." An account is given of the details and results of the measurement of the Holton Base with the secondary contact slide apparatus and the steel tape. The committee considers that with the contact slide apparatus a degree of precision is obtained beyond the needs of the triangulation, and the contact slide is commended. The cost of· measuring with the secondary contact slide apparatus is about the same as that with the tape. In the description of the steel tapes used on the Holton Base the opinion is expressed tbat, "carefully and judiciously handled, the steel tape apparatus wilf doubtless attain good standing throughout the United States, where so many extensive and independent surveys are being carried on, and especially in all newly undertaken projects." Comparisons of the earlier and later base measurements of the Coast and Geodetic Survey are given, and notes on the site of tbe ba.se lines and the procedure of field org·anization and measurements. The accuracy attainable in base measurements is based upon practice in the field, comparison with the standard, and the aecuracy of the new metric prototypes. After enmnemting the <.~onditions under which comparisons of standards are made, the committee says:
111

·we may couclude that 110 geodetic standard can bo known with a higher degree of accuracy thll.ll 1 part in r; 000 000 of its length, in terms of tho international unit. That it is possible to mcaNuro u bll.so liue repoato<lly with the samo appnratus with a surprisiflg accordance hotween meusurcs indicates that tho elimination of accidental errors hU!! been successfully mot by tho different apparatus in usu, and it is also believed that tho various methods of observing successive lengths of the same bar or systems of bars uro sufficiently i1rcciso. Ou tho other huucl, that constant errors exist wbioh uro in the main due to a defective lmowlodge of tl1c temperature of tho bars is :i fact commonly assumed, or Proven by the Ing of mercurial or bimetallic thermometers used on various apparatus. 'rheijo constant errors are not easily determined, but nro now tho principal sources of errors.

Examples of recent measurements and discrepancies are given. No definite limit is assigned to the degree of accuracy, because the measure · of a base line depends largely on the object it has to subserve and on t_he apparatus, time, and money available. The performance of the contact slide in its various adaptations now in use on this Survey, as well as that of the tape, warrant the conclusion that OUJL present. methods of measuring bases are unexcelled in Point of ecJnomy, rapidity, and accuracy.

2-34

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

"With the perfection of means now available a line may be readily measured with a probable error of 1: 1 000 000, so far as mere measurement is concerned." But this accuracy is rapidly dissipated by the known and unknown errors, and especially through the three or more steps in the triangulation required to reach the first line of average length. Great accuracy in the angular measurements is needed if au error of 1:150 000 is to be maintained throughout the network of triangulation. For secondary triangulation the fraction of the length 1: 100 000 to 1: 50 000 may be suitable, and the degree of accuracy in the base may be graduated accordingly. For tertiary triangulation au average uncertainty or limit of 1: 10 000, ··or even 1 : 5 000 may be allowable for the special purpose of the work. The subject of frequency of base lines is referred to by this and another committee. It is recommended that whenever the steel tape is used in primary work at least four measurements be made and each section be measured under risi11g and falling temperatures. It is particularly recommended that all base lines be.measured at least twice. In conclusion, the committee recommeuclsTbat further experiments with t4e steel tape be made, especially with a view to a better determination of its temperature. This recommendation seems to be warranted by the results of the measurements of the Holton Base. 2. T.liat the new duplex apparatus just completed by the Survey be given a thorough and careful trial as soon as practicable. 3. That the iced bar be used to lay off a 100111 distance as a comparator at the bases where the above recommendations are followed. 4. That in all measurement due reganl be paid to rising and falling temperatures, so as to eliminate as much as possible the errors due to lack of knowledge of temperature of the measuring apparatus. 5. 'fbat the tripods for supporting bars be made of metal, and embrace the details which experience has shown to be conducive to accuracy and rapidity of measurement. 6. That ordinarily the base line be divided into sections one-half kilometre in length. 7. That a 100m comparator be established in Washington for the purpose of testing steel fapes and contact slide apparatus. 8. That in future µse of the iced steel bar the water in the Y trough be not drained off below the surface of the bar, in order to remove any possibility of doubt as to the actual temperature of the bar.
.ABSTRACT OF THE· RErORT OF '.l'HE C0.'1:MI'l"l'EE ON 'l'RIANGULA'l'ION.
~-

The committee has classified the various subject-matters discussed by it under eighteen beads, with a map to exhibit the area of triangu· lations already executed, that under progress, and projected lines.

.·

REPORT FOR i893-P ART II.

235

The principal subjects are: the object of triangulation; classification; 111ain aud primary, secondary and tertiary triangulations; adaptation to tlw surface of the ground; general form of main triangulation; geometrical composition of a triangulation; frequency aud length of base lines and their connection with the triangulation; accuracy of a triaugulation, and comparisons with foreign work; international and interstate boundaries. Then follow instrumental outfit, method' of observation, marking stations, signals, etc. In the execution of a scheme of triangulation the character of the work will range from what is purely geodetic to plane surveying. The main triangulation comprises the principal series of geometrical · figures which compass along tlie shortest line the whole cxtcn't of territory under consideration. The subordinate divisions, with primary, secondary, and tertiary, arc more technical. The primary is clrnracterized by the greatest development of' length of sides and by the greatest accuracy of measureinent, wherein the geodetic positions depend on the iucan of numerous astronomical latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths, and the initial, intermediate and terminal base lines are directly measured. The committee recommenus that observations for latitude and azimuth be made according to the character of the prqjcct. In the primary triangulation these lrnve been in some localities made at every station, but frequently every other station has been so occupied. Further particulars are enumerated, n111l then follow descriptions of the other schemes. The frequency ancl length of base lines :111<l. their connection with the triangulation depen1l not ouly upon the orographical features of the country, b11t upon the required accuracy of the triaug-nlation. Because base lines cau he measured with mnch greater accuracy than the triangulation can maintai11, it is recomme1111ed to increase the number of base lines rather than to increase their le11gtl1. In arriving at the desirable accuracy of a triangnlatioi1 the object of the work mnst he considered. From an economical standpoint the degrees of accuracy in the measurement of a base li11e for different projects are given, ra11gi11g from 1: 200 000 to 1: 1000 000 or a still sma.Iler fraction. But to maintain an accuracy of J : 150 ooo, or even 1: 100 000 Part of the length, is a matter of difliculty in an extended triangulation. The accuracy of the base is rapidly dissipatml in the adjacent base figure, and hence it is not expedient to strain after excessive refinement i11 base measurement. The committee then examines 73 triai1gles of the main and primary triangulation, and shows tl.iat the work of the United States Coast and ?-eodetic Survey stands well in the front rank. In the triaugulatiou Just reforred to, the Survey inauguratecl a scheme on a scale so large that there was no previous experience to guide it or suggest.the attain· able accuracy of the work. A critical consideration of the angle meas:

236

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

ures shows that the number of observations might have been reduced by one-half and still give results which will rank with the best foreign work. The period of observation at a station must be somewhat short· ened, bnt a high authority is quoted to warn against hurrying observations lest the atmospheric conditions introduce larger errors than may be attributable t9 the instrument. This is a very important subject and sl1ould be carefully considered by tlie observers. The number of series of observations recommended at a principal triangulation station is about 31~ "·bile the number of positiom; of the circle should be, in general, much smaller. · In the east,ern part of the transcontinental triangulation, where the sides average 26 kilometres (16 miles) in length, a discussion of several hundred triangles suggests the reduction of the number of observations to about one-half or two-thirds tlie number recommended for the primary triangulation. In comparison with thousands of triangles of this class of work in Europe, tlmt of the Coast and Geodetic Survey must be rated as among the best. In tertiary triangulation the demawls of accuracy may vary from 1: 20 000 even to· 1: 5 000 part of the length. The com mi ttce treats of tho determination of international and interstate boundaries under the principal heads: Boundary nloug a meridian, along a parallel, along oblique lines. The meth0<ls of tracing each are presented in some detail, .with illustrations. Under instrumental outlit nro considered the merits and demerits of direction and repeating instruments for the main and primary triangulations. Whenever practicable, the large theodolites should be mounted upou concrete or masonry piers. In order to secure uniform sb;c of heliotrope images at all distances a formula is given for determining the size of the heliotrope for a given distance. All heliotropes should be centered with the same accuracy as the theodolite. Their superiority on long lines is pointed out. The method of measurement of angles with tho repenting instrument is drawn up from the experience of the observers, and directions are given for making the records, etc. · The committee has also discussed the different forms of signals and elevated structures for observing, the marking of stations below and at the surface of the grouud, etc. Vertical angles should be measured at all main and primary triangulation stations, a.nd the direction of all prominent, natural, and artificial objects in the liorizon should be observed. It is recommended that magnetic observations be made at all triangulation stations.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART U .
.A.BSTR.A.C'.1.' OF REPORT OF AS'.L'RONOMIO.A.L COMMITTEE.

237

The committee haR called attention to the various methods of determming longitude as required for different purposes and suited to different conditions. 'rhe most important of these is the telegraphic method, which was introduced by the Coast Survey. The mode of operation was much simplified in 1878, and a brief method of field computation adopted. The number of nights of observations required is stated to be from six to ten, the observers exclmuging places. Comparisons with the results obtained in foreign countries show that the Survey maintains an equally high standard, even wllen the number of nights has been but one-half of that used abroad. The expense of operating a longitude party with the present outfit has been reduced to a minimum, and without the extension of time a.t a station observations are also made for latitude and the magnetic ele. ments. With the audition of another observer to the }larty it is pro· posed to observe for gravity. The committee suggests that the longitudes of the Aleutian Islands may be determined by the use of terrestrial signals and the local time at different stations, and that the chain be subdivided and certain stations connecte<l chronometrically with Sitka as the base station. This method is recommended. For latitude observations the committee bas shown that the number of pairs of stars and the number of nights of observations have been gradually decreased on the Survey. This has arisen in a large measure from the better determinations of the star places as given in the later catalogues. It is believed that ten or twelve pairs of stars, observed· upon three or four nights with the zenith telescope or meridian instru. ment, will give the latitude of a station w'ith a probable error not exceeding a tenth of a second. This is so far below the average local deflections of the vertical that greater accuracy is not deemed necessary,, except in such special cases as the measurement of arcs and tbQ determination of intei·national boundaries. For latitude observations the committee recommends the continued use of the Talcott method by the zenith telescope or meridian instrument as affording greater accuracy than by other methods. It recalls the competitive observations instituted by Superintendebt Bache with the zenith sector, zenith telescope, prime vertical transit, and vertical circle. Ith; suggested that an enlarged catalogue of latitude stars is greatly needed. The committee suggests that the four principal nations publishing Ephemerides should combine in the expense of preparing and issumg a special star list of greater extent than is now issued, so that the number of time stars may be increased to an average of one for each two minutes of time; and also that the American Ephemeris Rhould ~x.tend the additional star places so as to cover the period now falling in daylight; also that more azimuth stars should be added, and when-

238

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY,

ever practicable grouped by differences of nearly twelve hours in right ascension. 1'he subpolar places should be given in order of"right ascension. W 1th close circumpolars this would be useful in determin· ing the value of a micrometer screw.
ABSTRACT OF REPORT OF THE COM:\1I1'TEE ON llYPSOl\1ETRY.

'fhe comuuttee states the degree of accuracy demanded in topography, physical hydrograpliy, base-line reduction to sea level, gravity observations, tidal planes, meteorological investigations, and engineering operations, and gives an account of the Y-level of civil engineers and the geodetic level of the Coast arnl Geodetic Survey. About 9 800 kilometres (G 100 miles) of precise levels have already been run by different corps of the United States to meet the demands of special investigations and in the regular work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The desirability of a consistent scheme of lines of control of the whole country, to which all future work may lend itself, · has made itself apparent. The committee presents considerations' for such a scheme, as follows:
To provide a moans, the most direct :mu econorni<'al, for couuecting the many ticlal stations of tho Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific scaboarcls. To connect thcHe ticlal plnues lJ,Y routes which will best overcome tho uncertainties arising from crossing mountain chains, etc. . To form closc<l figures that will best cletcrmino tho clegroo of accuracy of the work. To mako the lines of level conform us nearly as possible to oxistiug or proposed schemes of triangulation, aml espcci:illy of urc moaHuros. To take advantage of all work of a like naturo lwrotoforo oxecutod, ancl to cliHtribute judiciously over t110 country bench marks whicll may servu as irnintsof departure for bypsometric work of all kmcls. '

Work of this class bas been executed by almost all European nations, and the committee gives an externled report of the operations and the methods. Descriptions of the instrumeuts are given. Throughout France operations of the most exhaustive character have been or arc ·being carried out. In fact, the whole of Europe is covered with lines of precise leveling. According to the report of the International Geodetic Association, the total length is 102 800 kilometres (G4 250 miles). This does not include Great Britain. It is shown how carefully methods and means have been studied and applied so as to attain the highest degree of accuracy possible. Then follows an account of precise levels· in the United States by the Corps of Bngineers in the survey of the Great Lakes, by the Mississippi and l\Iissouri River Commissions, and by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The methods of procedure are stated and the conclusions reached to account for the cumulative errors which are found in all series of levelings. In 1892 an elaborate series of experiments were undertaken by the Survey to investigate the system of leveling and the character of the instruments. These have not been ·fully discussed, but have resulted in valuable suggestions of a practical nature.

REPORT FOR 1893-P.ART II.

239

Results oflong lines of leveling by the eugineer's Y-level in the U uited States are presenb~d, and the conclusions deduced from work done in Prussia with similar. instrmnents are quoted. Experiments with the geodetic level and with the Y-level are in progress by the SunTey. Tlrn subject of trigonometrical leveling is discussed and a few of the results in the United States and India are presented. The determination of differences of elevation by observations of atmospheric pressure is at times the only meam; available, and the method of observing the boiling point of water is recommended as suitable for exploration surveys. The committee concludes that the measure of trigonometrical I1eights should form part of tho work of all triangulation stations. For tllis work they sug·gest that a new form of instrument be devised to provide for the measnrepient of la.rge1· arcs by micrometer differences'; That tlie standard bench marks throughout tlie country should be determined with the greatest degree of accuracy attainable; That subsidiary lines may be leveled by less precise methods; That if, upon investigation, it shall appear that less elaborate methods or instruments than those now employed on the Survey will, by the use of small circuits, prodHce satisfactory results with an increase of economy, pµrely theoretical considerations should not prevent their adoption; That the present geodetic level of the Survey is as perfect as any yet devised. Recommendations are made for comparisons of rods with the standard1 and for various details of the rod and supports.
ABSTRACT OF REPOU.T OF TIU: CO)DfITTEE ON AL.A.SKA.

The committee presents an account of the extraordinary growth of this but partially explored country, with its valuable resources on land and the limitless wealth in its adjacent waters. Statements are made of the extent and wealth of tho forests) the fisheries, the mining, the furs, with statistics of the commerce aud population. The surveys already made are considered, and due credit given for the hydrography, triangulation, and astronomical "·ork that has been done. The astronomical work covers tho chronometric determinations of several seasons; but the systematic trips of the last two years and the latitude work executed at the longitude stations occupied have added materially to our astronomical control of the work in southeastern .Alaska. The traffic through the great inland water passages of southeastern ~laska made their immediate survey a matter of the most pressing importance. This work is now nearly accomplished; but the committee .considers that the present standar1l of worth should be made uniform throughout. It advises that the topographic features should receive

240

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

more attention, and recommends that a topographic reconnaissance be made to supply what is needful in this respect. The question of the order of sequence iu which the Alaskan work shouhl be taken up was considered, and the couclusious reached are herein briefly recounted: First. The great chain of the Aleutian Islands is known to be very imperfectly laid down on existing maps, and the demands of the whaling tleet, the naval vessels. of the United States and Great Britain, the cod-fishing fieet, and the shipping and trading vessels require that the passes through this fog-covered line of islands should be better determined. It is proposed by the committee to establish certain base-longitude stations for chronometric determinations from Sitka, and to connect all the islands by means of terrestrial signals and local time. The heights of the islands combine to render this feasible, and the method is second in accuracy only to the telegraphic method. These longitude determinations with latitude measures give certain positions on some of the islands. Small triangulation, and perhaps topographic reconnaissance, will then give their outline with the necessary precision for the present. Second. The great industries that are centered about Kadiak and the I western end of the Aleutian peninsula make a survey of this section only second in importance to the one just mentioned. Third. The welfare and safety of the great fleet of American vessels engaged in the Arctic whaling industry make it necessary and a duty of the Government to establish a good longitude st·ttion at their rendezvous, Port Clarence. Fourth. The necessity for opening a reacly means of entrance into the heart of Alaska, that its great possibilities may be thoroughly explored and tested, and the returns that will reward our citizens when the great wealth of salmon that abounds in its waters can be reached, make it important that a survey should be made of the mouth of the Yukon River-the Mississippi of this vast territory-and which is now practically useless to us on account of our almost complete ignorance of the channels and waterways thl'Ough its delta. The committee submits plans for the longitude work which would control the independent surveys to be made between Kadiak and Attu. It also suggests arrangements which are possible in connection with the work at Port Clarence and about the mouth of the Yukon, and which might materially reduce the cost of both enterprises. Its final proposition is a scheme for a triangulation through Clarence and Chatham straits, the great channels of the Archipelago Alexander, which wo11ld reenforce and control·.all the work in southeastern Alaska. In this scheme the character and main features of the work art.'I con· sidered with relation to the meteorological conditions which must be expected and the economy that should be borne in mind in suggesting a plan of operations. ·

'vill

REPORT FOR 1893-.PART II.

241

.A..BSTRAC'.l' OF REPOR'l' OF THE COM:)UTTEB ON INSTRUMENTS.

The committee· has confined its attention to the consideration of i11strumeuts for astronomical work and tlte memmrement of horizontal angles, because otlter committees will necessarily consider instruments special to tlteir work. A list of 52 astronomical instruments all<l ()~ tlteodolites (namely, 21 direction and 41 repeating instruments) arc given. The character and condition of the iustrnments arc described in general terms. Comparison is made between the instruments used in the Coast and Geodetic Survey and in Europe for the determination of latitudes and of telegraphic longitudes; ·and the committee recommemls a lighter.form of chronograph. The 3Qcm (12-inch) direction theodolites, No. 14;':) and No. 146, lately constructed at the office, have l>ecn tested and are l>elieved to be of superior character. · The committee recommends that all iustruments whose graduation is defective should. be sent to the oflice for rcgmduatio1!, the purchase of 10"111 and 18""' (4 aud 7 inch) instruments for the work in Alaska, aud that erratic motion~ of the level bubble be studietl. lt makes suggestions in regard to protecting iwstrumcnts iu the field against sudden cl!ang-es of temperature. In conclusion, the committee states that the i11strnments for astronomical work autl horizontal measures are in general very good .
.A.BS'.l'RAC'.l' OF REPOl?.'.l' OF TJIJ.; COMl'vll'l'TEE ON OFFICE AND FIELD RELATIONS.

1

The committee 'states the necessity for tl!e effective cooperation between the field force and the office; and, in order to still fnrtl!cr promote tllis o~ject, recommends that the regrilatious of 1887, with amend1nents, and tl!e circulars· since issued, should be carefully studied aud their provisions minutely followed. The preparation, duplication, and transmission of records should be thoroughly systmu.atic. They, together with a summ111·y report of th~ season's work, accompanied hy a sketeh and statistics, should be Promptly turned into the office at the close of the season. The field co1nputations ~hould follow as soon as practical>le. 'fhe condition and character of all instruments should be clearly stated when seut to or 1 from the offiee. Stations iu the vicinity of any field party should be ~isited when practicable, aud their coudition reportetl. If reported as irretrievably lost, the names should be stricken from the office list of geographic positions available for field work . . As the field parties are cut off from easy access to current publica' tions bearing upon their work, the committee recommends that some Person be appointed in the office to prepare brief extracts or headlines ~~mutter germane to the Survey and its operations, and thnt copies of ese be transmitted to the parties in the field and at distant stations,
S. Ex. 10, pt. 2-16

242

U. S. COAST AND· GEODETIC SURVEY.

The Superintendent referred to the Conference a paper prepared at his request by the disbursing agent, upon the correlation of the operating department and aecounting system of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. This very interesting paper, referred by the Conference to th~ committee, is appended in full to it8 report, and should be carefully studied. The committee recommends the preparation of a manual of observations, records, and computations, embodying the conclusions of the Conference, and :t manual of accounts, in :i,ccordance with the valuable suggestions contained in the paper of the disbursing agent .
.ABSTRACT OF JtEPORT OF THE COl\DUT'l'J<m ON THE MI~!..SUREMENT OF .AIWS.

The committee shows that the measurements of arcs of t.he meridian, of the parallel and ob~ique to these, has been incidental to the extended operations of the trigonometrical survey of the United States. They are moreover of great importance in order to furnish the shape and dimensions of that geometric figure which best represents the particular area to be surveyed and to secure exact measures of geographic position on the earth's surface. Beyond this, the combination of the arcs measured by different countries is indispensable for the determmation of the geometric flgurc which shall, in size and shape, most closely approximate to the figure of the earth as a whole. For this latter purpose the Goverumentof the United States became a member of the International Geodetic .Association for the measure· ment of arcs, and thereby incurred certain scientific obligations which have in part been fulfilled by the triangulation schemes already exe· cuted. The further and necessary extension of these projects of triangu· lation in the prosecution of the Survey will furnish additional material for utilization in our country and for the International .Association." The arcs in process of execution are mentioned, and a map has been prepared to exhibit the prospective trianrrulations wliich may be developed, and which will be, in great measure, available for the location of boundaries, for bases of State surveys, and for geographical positions·
.ABSTRAC'.l.' OF U.EPORT OP
THl~

CO:M:L'IHTTEE ON MAGNETICS.

The committee states the necessity for a knowledge of tlie laws governing tlie magnetic force, in order that tlie charts of the Survey shall be furnished with the magnetic variation at the dates of issue and the prospective annual change. The distribution ot' magnetism is dependent mainly upon geograph· ical position and time, but is influenced by so many local disturbing causes that in order to produce the lines defining the direction and intensity seaward for a certain epoch it is necessary to extend the observations a sufficient distance inland. Moreover, there is such a constant demand made upon the Survey by surveyors, engineers, and courts of law m every p~rt of the country

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

243

for information looking to tlle recovery of old lines or landmarks that a more complete series of observations and study of the 11istr1bution of tlw declination is necessary over the whole area of the United States. A demand for au aceumte knowledge of the magnetic dip and intensity has been made by mariuers and electricians. By observatiou in the regular progress of the work, the collection of observations from the earliest to those of the present time, and by other means, the Survey has .given all necessary information for the charts, and in addition very much material which has been published m print and graphically for the use of surveyors, engineers, etc. The committee presents general descriptions of the magnetic instruments used in other countries and the recent ones for use in the Survey. While much of the work of magnetic obl'lervation is executed inci. dentally by the different parties in triangulation a.nd longitude, the committee calls attention to the nece!5sity for a special series of observations, particularly tllrougll California, Oregon, \Vashington, Idaho, Montana, and the Dakotas; also to the necessity of more observations in Alaskan waters. It recommend8 the use of' compass tleclinometers by every triangulation party, and that the main and primary triangulation and telegJ'.aphic longitude parties determine all the magnetic elements. It also recommends.that a second edition of the isoclinic, isodynamic, and isogonicacurves be published for an epoch close at band-say, 1895 or 1900-together with the data, method of discussion, and explanation of the results and their uses .
.A.IlSTRA.C'.l' OF REPOR'..L' OF '.l'HE CO:l\DU'.l'TEE ON GRA.VITY.

The committee states that recent developments in the instruments aud methods will enable the Survey to enter successfully upon extended gravimetric research at less cost than was possible with the older processes, and this without lowering the standard of accuracy. The committee refers to the development of the earlier pendulum research on' the Survey with respect to character of instruments, their shape, size, aud material, as well as the methods of observing. All nations engaged in geodetic work have considered this subject an important aud necessary bra11ch of a geodetic survey, as affording a means of determining the figure of the earth. Our relation with the International Geodetic A8sociation renders it desirable that the Survey should conform, as far as practicable, with the general plan of work of that body. Five Jmudred stations have been occupied by foreign observers, While by the Coast and Geodetic Survey 27 have been occupied in th_is country and 29 abroad. In many of the leading European countries pendulum iuvestigationR have been vigorously prosecuted in recent Years. In India the English have carried on a very systematic scheme of gravity work ·in connection with their great trigonometrical survey.

244

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Maps are presented showing the stations occupied in the United States, including Alaska, and in Europe. Th~ improved pendulum apparatus of the Survey is described. The method of observing permits a ready application of the telegraphic method of determining the difference in the force of gravity at two stations which are connected by wire. A still more portable apparatus is now ueing coustruetecl, iu which the pendulum has a period of bnt one-fourth seco1Jd. The proposed outline of investigations contemplates the determiuation of the geographical distribution of gravity within the United States with respect to latitude, elevation, and geological structure, includJ.ng, for instance, a series of gravity measures along the valley of the Mississippi, and another at right angles to it along the thirtymuth parallel from the Atlantic to the Pacific. · · It is proposed to establish, in the course of a few years, a number of base stations for gravimetric aud hypsometrie operations of the Survey. These ·will l>e determined with the greatest precision. 'J'he absolute force of gravity i8 such an important physical constant and of su('.h great scientific i11terest as to justify its measurement at a few base stations. In observatiorn; iute11ded for the determination of tlie figure of the earth it is proposed to restrict the stations to the sea uorder of the co11tinents and islands of the United States, so as to obviate a reduction to the sea level. The extended range.of latitude in the limits of the United States is favorable to this measure. It is not yet deemed practicable to state what degree of precision may or should be reached in either absolute or relative work, but observations at a station should be continued only long enough to reasonably eliminate the known errors of observation. Multiplication of stations is to be preferred to a high degTee of accuracy. Iu 1882 a conference on gravity determinations was held at the office of the Coast and Geodetic Sm·vey, and the conclusions which were then reached are given at the close of the committee's report.
.A.DS'.1.'l~AC'.l'

01" REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON EQUIPMENT.

The committee has co11sidered this su~ject under two principal heads, operations conducted by land and operations conducted uy water. Ea-0h is then considered under several subheads. The committee recommends the lightest practicable outfits of men, animals, and material, but in conclusion states that owing to the great variety of orographic, climatic, and economic conditions, covering so large an area as this country does, it is impracticable to recommend and specify the details. The results of the experience of officers of the Survey, who have conducted work uuder nearly all these conditions, are condensed in this report. While attention to economy calls for simplicity in equipage, the operat-Ors ought not to be deprived of such conveniences as tend to

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

245

prolong their working ability, by securing shelter agains~ the elements, needful rest, and gooll food. Equipment wltich may suffice in emergencies will be insufficient for work requiring long sustained efforts, which may be i>rotracted through successive years. Having thus referred t-0 the reports of the committees in brief terms, the Conference begs 'to state tllat several committees have given attention to cognate subjects which may well be incorporated in future editiorn; of the manuals of instructions and the publications of methods, and have ma.de recommendations therefor in their reports. During the sessions of the Conference facilities have been cheerfully exte11ded by the office in furnishing data and copies of itR proceedings, and its investigations have been aided by ready access to the wellarranged library of the Survey. As·ex-ofticio member of each committee, you have been invited to the meetings of the Conference, and the members of the committees beg leave to acknowledge the a:.<lvice yon were pleased to extend to them. We thank you for thii,,i special opportunity of our meeting each other and personally comparing our experiences. We feel that the interests of the Survey have been greatly advanced and that the esprit de corps of the Survey has been intensified by this instructive contact. Very respectfully, GEOIWE DAVIDSON, Chairman. 0. IT. 'l'IT'.l.'MANN, Secretary. T. C.· MENDENHALL, LL. D., Superintendent United States Coast and Georletic Sun·ey, Washington, D. C.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE CONFERENCE.

The Conference met at the office of the Unite<l States Coast and Geodetic Survey, Washington, D. C., on .January !J 7 1894, and after completing its laoors it adjourned on February 28. The following oflicers of the Survey were members of the Conference: J>rof. George Davidson, Mr. Charles .A.. Sclwtt, Mr. George A. Fairfield, l\Ir. William ·Eimbeek, l\fr; 0. H. Tittmaun, Mr. J. J. Gilbert, "l\fr. F. W. Perkius, 'M:r. Edwin Smith Mr. J. F. Pratt, ' Mr. 0. H. Sinclair, l\Ir. E. F. Dickins, Mr .·J. E. McGrath, Mr. Jsaac Winston, Mr. P.A.. Welker, Mr. C. H. van Orden, Mr. Fremont Morse, Mr. W. B. Fairfield, Mr. F. A. Young, 1\Ir. G. R Putnam, M:r. A.. L. Baldwin, Mr. 0. B. French, Mr. R. L. Faris, Mr. S. B. Tinsley.

~r. St~hman Fo~ney,

246

tr. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Prof. A. H. Buchanan, of Tennessee, and Prof. W. R Hoag, of the University of Minnesota, Acting.Assistants United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, joined the Conference on February 3, and participated in its deliberations until ]<'ebruary 14. In opening the Conference, Superintendent Mendenhall, while distinctly disclaiming any desire to restrict its deliberations, suggested the following suqjects for its consideration, in the treatment of which advantage should be taken of the experience of the several corps engaged upon kindred work in the United States and foreign countries, bearing in mind the advisability of reporting its conclusions iu a form which can be utilize<l in revising and bringing up to date the various handbooks on field methods and results issued by the Survey: Base-line 11zea.~urement.-Co11sidcr appliances, recent in vestigatious of line measures and methods, a11d their adaptability to the varyingconditions encountered in trigonometrical work. Compare the relative values in a scheme of triangulation of a few bases, measured with a high degree of accuracy, with frequent bases determiued with less refinement. Trian{lulation.-Defi.ne with greater exactness tlle various classes of trigonometrical work. Discuss the instruments, methods, and precision desirable for each class. Consider the relation of the number of observations to the degree of accuracy demanded by the character of the work, with the object of deciding- if any material reduction can be made in the number of observations now taken, especially at primary stations. Consider reconnaissance and signal building, forms of day signals, and the use of night signals. Consider methods of observiug and instruments. What besides the necessary measuremeut of angles should be done at a triaugnl:ition station. Submit schemes of triangulation necessary and desirable for a complete survey of the whole country, bearing in mind their utility in fixing boundary lines (State and national) and as furnishing bases for more detailed State surveys. Consider especially the character and scale of work desirable for tl.te survey of Alaska. Astronomical work.-::\fothods and instruments, giving consideration to the different classes of work and standards of accuracy. \Vl..tat work, other than astronomical, may be done protitably in connection with the latter. · llypsometry.-Instruments to be used, and accuracy to be aimed at. Vertical angles; barometric work. Submit a scheme of lines of precise leveling controlling the whole area of the couutry. Magnetic work. Gravitation work. General. Party orga1dzation.-Camps antl outfitl'l-posRibility of reduction in their size and cost. ·Jiecorus-tl..teir preparatiou, duplication, and

REPORT FOR 1893-PA.RT II.

247

transmission to the office. Field computations-degree of accuracy required. Accounts-relation of field officers to the disbursing agent. At the close of .his address he appointed Prof. George Davidson permanent chairman and Mr. 0. H. 'l'ittmann secretary of the Con· ference. Mr. G. A. Fairfield was appointed chairman of the committee of the whole. Owing to his inability to act, on account of sickness, he was succeeded by Mr. Gilbert, who acted during the Conference. A committee on rules, consisting of Messrs. Schott, Sinclair, and Winston, was formed, and their recommendations of an order of business and rules were adopted. A com1nittee to assist the chairman in the formation of committees, consisting of Messrs. Schott, Sinclair, Pratt, Smith, Eimbeck, and Morse, was appointed; and, in accordance with their recommendation, committees, to which was assigned the task of preparing reports on tbe various topics under consideration, were organized as follows: (A) Reconnaissance.-Eimbeck (chaJrman), Dickins, Forney, l?rench, Perkins; vVelker. (B) Base lines.-Datridson (chairman), Eimbeck, I?reneh, Pratt, Schott, Smith, Tittmann. . (0) 1.1riangulation and schemes of triangulation for whole country.Schott (chairman), Davidson, Dickins, Eimbeck, G. A. Fafrfield, W. B. Fairfield, Faris, Gilbert, Perkins, Sinclair, Van Orden, Welker, Young. (D) A.~fronomy.-Sinclair (chairman), Davidson, Gilbert, Morse, Putnam, Smith. (E) Hypsometry and scheme of leveling for whole country.-Perkins (chairman), G. A. Fairfield, McGrath, Pratt, Van Orden, Winston, Young. (F) Alaslca.-McGrath (chairman), Baldwin, Pratt, Tittmann, Morse. (G) Instrwnents.-Smith (chairman), Davidson, Eimbeck, Gilbert, Pratt, '.rittmanu, Van Orden, vViuston. (ll) Office and field relations.-G. A. Fairfield (chairman), Forney, Si~1clair, Schott, Winston. · (l) Jlfeasurement of a?·cs.-Schott (chairman), Davidson, Eimbeck, M:cGrath, Putnam, Sinclair. . (J) Ma,qnetics.-Gilbert (chairman), Faris, McGrath, Putnam, Schott, Tmsley. (K,) Gravity measures.-Superintendent (chairman), Eimbeck (acting chairman), Putnam, Tinsley. (L) Equipment.-Pratt (chairman), Baldwin, Dickins, W. B. Fairfield, Forney, Sinclair, Van Orden, Welker. Special committee on arrangements.-Tittmauu (chairman), Sinclair, Smith, Winston. To these were ~dded, near the close of the Conference, a committee ;~mposed of the Chairman, Professor Davidson, Messrs. Schott and ittmann, to formulate, for the consideration of' the CouferAnce, the

248

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

general res.ults of its deiiberations, iu a report to the Superintendent, aud an editing committee; composed of Messrs. Tittmann (chairmau), Schott, G. A. !~airfield, )lcGrath, and Putnam. During the proceedings temporary committee8 were appointed from time to time for some special purposes, bnt these need not be more particul~rly specified. Under the general distribution of su~jects above given, each committee prepared a list of topics to be discussed in their reports. These lists were submitted to the Co11fere11ce, and after they had been considered and approved the committees proceeded to discuss the subjects assigned to them on the lines thus indicated. 'rite reports prepared in pursuance of this plan by the several committees were discussed in committee of the whole, and were finally adopte1l by a majority vote ofthe Conference. At the beginning of the sessions invitations were externled to the ofticers of the Survey who were not memuers of the Conference and to others interested_in its labors to 1mbmit their views on matters relating to the purpose for which it was convened. The Conference was also favored by the personal attendance, on various occasiom;~ of P~·of. J. 11. Gore, of Columbian University, Washington, D. C. Prof. R. S. Woodward, of ColumlJiaCollege, New York, came to Washington, at the sacrifice of his time and convenience, to reply verbally to questions proposed to him by the Conference. Prof. William Harkness, U.S. N., addressed the Conference on February 7. 'l'he following outlines of their remarks are appended:
SYNOPSIS OF PROF. IL S. WOODW AUD'S REMARKS.

Addressing hiirn;elf to a reply of the first question proposed to him by the Conference, namely, the number of measures of an angle necesi;ary in triangulation of the highest order of pi·ech;ion with given instrumental means, Professor Woodward discussed the following heads: Relation between the magnifying power of telescopes and the reading power of the micrometers; Errors of pointing; Graduation; Instruments; Atmosphere; Centering. He advocated the use of a magnifying power of about GO for telescopes, so as to preserve the proper relation between their pointing power and the reading power of the microscopes.· He spoke of high power as diminishing the personal eqnation due to phase of signals and as serving as a test for the steadiness of the atmosphere. He advocated the use of flat signals to diminish phase. He.spoke of the instability of the mounting of the tl1eodolites, and advised the return to the measurement of angles (Gauss) rather than the measurement of directions (Hessel), and thought that in general nothing would be gained by ocular micrometer pointings in addition to the simple pointings. He stated that owing to the perfection of modern instruments a large number of positions is no longer necessary, and 1liscussed this

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

249

matter at some length. In reply to a question, he said that steadiness of atmosphere might be taken as an indication of the.absence of lateral refraction. He spoke of the necessity for the careful centering of instruments, especially at bas1.1 stations, and gave a detailed account of base measurement witb steel tapes.
SYNoJ>SI8 OF PROFESSOR IIARKNESS's REi\1.A.RI{S.

Professor Harkness addressed the Conference on the metl1ods of determining the earth'" ellipticity and the Ya.Ines deduced from them. Ile consideretl successively the followi11g five methods: Geodetic method8; Pendulum measures; Precession and nutation; Perturbatio11s of the 1110011; 'l:he moon's parallax. He called attention to the fact that au arc whose middle latitude iR in 540 45' gives the value for the equatorial radimi, while a more equatorial arc-that is, one i11 latitude 35° lfi'-gives the polar radius, and gave two equations in which the numerical coeflicients showed the relative effect of known arcs on the determination of the two radii. He 8tated tllat American arcs liad not been introduced in the equatiom;; for deriving the figure of the earth, although the data for two, resulting froin the 01wrations of the Lake Survey, had been pnblished. 1 Aft1w discussing the pendulum methods, lte presented a tabulation of .values derived from Pctndutum experiments at various times. He explained that the value:,; derived from precession aud nutation are Vitiated by want of knowledge of tho i11tcrnal constitution of the earth, and that the the0retically exact value from lunar perturbations is rendered questionable by the uncertainty attaching to tho observed values of the perturbations themselves, and in illustration gave the observed Values of certain perturbations of the moon on which the figure of the ea.rlh derivell from them depends. In regard to the method by the moon's parallax, he expresReu the hope that the cooperation of observatories would lead to a satisfactory determination of tlte ellipticity by this method. In his opinion pendulum and astronomical methods will give the most reliable value of' t11e ratio of the earth's semidiameters, aud geodetic arc 1llcasnres will give tiic linear values with great exactness. He stated that in order to determine the reciprocal- of :E with a probable error llot exceeding one unit, tho probable error of each of the semidiameters 1llust bt'I reduced to+ 164·4 feet (50·111u).
1 'l'ho 1J11itc<l 8tatoB Coast Rnrvoy publiHho<l t.ho reAults of two arcs u11d deduced a result for tho size and figure of tho mtrt.11. (Appendix G, Ho1iort for 1877.)

250

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
1''/ilttening of the eai·th as found from pendul1on experiments.
[A·taulo prepared uy Prof. Wliliam Hnrkucss, U.S. N.]

i·I

~1.8~;1~8:~- ~-~-~-,;-:,~ -~-.- - - .~-~-u_1._:"_~ - - · -_-_T1I'_1
___ 1821 1825 1827 1829 1829 1830 1833 1834 1841 1842 1853 1869 1872 1876 1880 1884 1884 Bessel Biot Sabine Saigey Pontecoulant Schmidt: Lchrbuch,T.1,p.372,47E. Airy Poisson Baily Peters, C. A. F., Borenius l'aucker Unferdinger Nyren Fischer, A., Clarke Helmert Hill, G. W., 5, 1894. 310·11 306·75 289:1 281 ·62 340·16 288·20 282·82 287·31 285 ·26 290·99 289· 288·38 289·15 287 ·73 284 ·4 292·2 299·26 287·73

I

FEllRl:ARY

The Conference, having completell its labors, met for the last time on February 28. The general report to the Superintendent having been read and adopted, a committee, consisting of Messrs. Welker, Morse, and Faris, was appointed to notify the Superintendent of the readiness of the Conference to submit its final report. Upon the arrival of the Superintendent the chair orderecl the reading of the report, upon the conclusion of which the Superintendent produced the minutes of ~he Board of Organization of 18!3, on which-he commented, saying that they contained evidence of independence of opinion which he t110ugbt bad also been mm;ifested in the present Conference, in which perfect freedom of discussion was accompanied by the utmost good fellowship. He regretted that other duties had prevented his more frequent attendance at the meetings, and expressed his gratification at the outcome of the Conference, which had already caused a feeling of regret in him 'that he bad not summoned it at an earlier period of bis superintendency. After the departure of the Superintendent, Mr. Sinclair offered the following resolutions, which were unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That thi11 Conference herein expresses its high appreciation of the action. of the Superintendent in calling it together, realizing that ~eat benefit has accrued to its members by the interchange of ideas, which can not but result in tho increased efficiency of tho entire corps; That the thanks of tho Conferenco ho extended to its clrnirmun and to tho chairman of tho committee of tho whole for the courtesy with which they have presided over its deliliero. tions; That tho thankH of tho Conference l.Je extended to the secretary for the very so.tisfactory lllanuer iu which he has performotl the arduous labors imposed upon him.

REPORT FOR 1893-P.A.RT II.

251

Resolutions referring to the loss sustained by the Survey by the recent death of Assistant James S. Lawson were adopted by a rising vote. It was ordered that they be spread upon the minutes and that a copy be sent to his family. The Conference then adjourned.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE A, ON RECONNAISSANCE.

--------- - - - - - - - - - - - - ----- - - - Appendix: No. 20, Coa.st a.ud Gemlotio Survey Report., 1876; Appendix No. 9, Con.st nnd Geodetic Survey Report, ,1882; Appendix No. 10, Coast nu<l Geodetic Survey Report, 1885.
1

The term "reconnaissance" as here used embraces all those investigations of a region to be triangulated which precede the fieldwork of construction, base measurement, and the measurement of angles, and comprises the selection of the most feasible chain or net of geometric figures, the location of the base lines, the determination of the preparations and appliances necessary, and the collection of information as to the facilities available for carrying out the proposed scheme. · Au exhaustive report upon such a su~ject appeared to your committee to be neither practicable nor advisable; and after a careful review of the articles already p'ul>lisbed, 1 and their comparison with th~ experience of those who have been most extensively engaged upon this class of work, it conchuled to restrict its la.hors to the formulation of a fow practical suggestions, which it is hoped will be useful in promoting economy and dispatch in the execution of triangulation work in the future, viz: (1) l{econnaissancC1, forming as it does the l>asis of triangulation, should always be thorough and exhaustive, developing all possible schemes and comprising all classes of information affecting the ec.onomy and facility of the operations to follow. (2) Simplilication of tlrn geometric configuration of schemes by the more frequent introduction of well-conditioned simple triangles in all cases where tho substitution of complex figures, as quadrilaterals with open diagonals or polygons, would necessitate either t.lie tindue contraction or exptinsion of the scheme or the C\rection of high and costly scaffoldings. (3) Avoidance, as far as compatible with the requirements of geodetic triangulation, of elevated structures for any purpose except that of overcoming ol>stacles or lifting the triang·ulation above the level of highly heated and disturbed atmosphere. In exceptional cases structures of moderate elevation may also prove necessary to preserve symllletry or to attain proper figure conditions, hut in no case should mere ge~metrical elegance of a scheme of triangulation l>e sought at the expense of reasonable economy. (4) Avoidance, as far as expedient, of the longest lines or the highest Peaks in the mountains of the interior. 011 account of the clouds Which frequently envelop these peaks and the uncertainties in the

252

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

seeing, lines of a greater length than 200 kilometres (124 miles) invariably tend to interrupt and delay the progress of the work. In addition to this, the occupation of the highest mountains is always expensive by reason of the preparations required to make tl1cm accessil>le and of the difficulties of transportation. Lines that pass clm;ely along the "slopes of mountains or hills or near the vertical surface of any object, as large buildings, or that pass through u:irrow avenues cut through timber should be a.voided if possible, as they arc particularly liable to lateral refraction. (5) Attention is also callerl to the rlegree of adaptability possessed by several typical figures commonly used in triangulation of tlie first order. These simple triangles, or chains of triangles, easily auapt themselves to topogra11hy of' the most com1liex character, whereas quadrilaterals, with observable diagonals, possess. this quality in the least degree, and on th11t account will frequently be found impracticable figures. Difficult stretches of country may, therefore, always be most eitsily crossed by simple triangles. Pcnt:tgons, or quadrilaterals with central points, al8o readily conform to the configuration, however com plex or tlifllcult it may seem. The hexagon, however, on account of the disposition of the stations, tends to retard rapid progress, and should not, therefore, be included i11 a chain of triangulation. 'l'his figure finds its most advantageous application wlw11 large areas are to be covered, as in the snrvey of a whole State. (fl) It is recommended that in all extensive chains of triangulation sites for base lines be considered and selecte(l at intervals of from 2[)0 to 320 kilometres (155 to 200 miles), or n.t every eighth, ninth, or tenth figure, according to the length of the oases, the character and scope of tho scheme, and that their c01111eetion with the main ehaln be carefully developed in order that these connections may be simultaneously executed with the main work. (7) Whenever the purpose of a chain. of triang111ation requires the traversing of ftn,t or rolling cmmtry itfl trend should, when practicable, rather follow than cross the drainage. Experience h11s shown that when the drainage of a country has to be crossed by the triangulation it can usually be done only by contracting the scheme or by elevating· the statious by means of scaffoldi11gs. Similar conditions are met with in crossing high table-lands or flat-topped or double-crested ranges of mountains, as, for exn,mple, the Sierra Nevada, in the region· about Lake Talioe. (8) Before taking the (icld the reconnoitNing officer shonld, by a careful study of all available maps, make himself as thoroughly ~uainted as poAsible with the character of the country to bB treafod, the lines of travel, the location and relative importance of towns and villa.ges, and, above all, the drainage, as the latter will in a great measure determine the sb:e of the scheme.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

253

(!l) The field notes of the reconuoiterer should he exhaustive. They cau never be too full for himself or his successors. Horizontal and vertical angles should be taken on all prominent peaks and objects, even though they are· not directly included in the scheme, for they are often invaluable for purposes of orientation. Approximate latitude aud azimuth observations should also be made, and the magnetic beariug of prominent points be 11oted. Specify the difliculties of the country, describe and carefully sketch the entire horizon, particularly every opening or notch through which more distant mountains can be seen. Bvery high point or possible station should be especially 110tcd. The plotting· should lw kept up from duy t.o day, aud a rough topographical sketch mad.e, showiug· the main ridges, water courses, roads, trails, and habitations. · Comprehensive notes with regard to means of transportation, subsistence for man an<l animals,. help, materials, and accessibility are invaluable. Hemarks with reference to weather aml climatic conditious are impo1·tant and desirable. (10) On completion of tho reconnaissance, or of tbe season's work, a report, t.ogether with sketches 01· diagrams illnstrating the schemes developed, should be prepared. '.I.'h!s report, containing full and explicit statements setting forth the economical and other advantages and disadvantages, is to be promptly transmitted to the Superintendent for his consideration and actio11.
OU'.1.'l·'l'.l' AND INS'.l'RU:MEN'i'S It:EQUIIiED.

'I'he camp outfit will necessarily vary with the character of country ::t8 light a11d'-portable as possible for reconnaissance work in a mountainous or unsettled country. The outfit of instruments is simple, but must be adequate for the lltu·pose, viz : Two aneroid barometers. On~ 4-inch theodolite with vertical circle and tripod. One reconnoitering telescope of 3-inch aperture. Azimuth compass, hand level, good binocular. . Pocket box of drawing instruments, protractor and scale. Steel tape. Two heliotropes for testing the doubtful intervisibility of stations. Best maps of the country available. Projection with river courses and known roads drawn thereon. Small photographic apparatus, with films. Note and sketch books. A gradienter will be found a valuable instrument for reconnaissance.

to be traversed, arnl should be

WM. EIMDECK,
OWEN

Chairman of Comm·ittee. B. FRENCH, Secretary.

254

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE B, ON BASE LINES.

The Committee ou Base Lines makes the following report to the Conference: It is not necessary to enter into any historical account of the different.apparatus that have been used at various periods. A short statement of the mstruments in use, or lately in use, in foreign countries and in the United States, and the results obtained from them, will be given, but in the time at onr disposal it can not be complete nor will the material in print offer means for an exhaustive comparison. The following classification of base apparatus covers all appliances in general use: (1) Contact apparatus, comprising compeusating, bimetallic, and monometallic. (2) Optical apparatus, comprising bimetallic, monometallic, and bars in ice. (a) Steel tape and wire apparatus. The following is a .brief description of the more prominent appliances recently in use, but it must be distinctly remernbere(l that all the relative errors given, excepting those of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of Indfa, Lake Survey, and Coast and Geodetic St11'\'ey, are merely the errors of measurement, and do not include the error of reduction to sea level, nor the error of the unit of length of the apparatus, the latter being undoubtedly one of the largest sources of error in the determination of the length of a base line.

Base apparatus now in u11c-bimctallic and monomctalz.ic (optical).
SP.A.IN.

The Spani~h bases have been measured with two appliances. The earlier, designed by Brunner, is ·1 long and consists of two bars, one of platinum, wlwse cross section is [)mm by 21 11" " , and the other is of brass, of the same dimensions. These bars are fa1>tened together in the middle, and at each end Borda scales are attached to obtain the difference of length due to changes of the tem1wrnture. They are mounted on rollers in the carryipg case to allow longitudinal movement. The microscopes are mounted on independeu.t tripods. One base has been measured with this apparatus with an averagerelati ve error of measurement ofinnrhnr-o-· (See'' Memor1as del Jnstituto GeogTaphico," Vol. V, 1884, p. 99.) Subsequent to the year 1865 an apparatus was devised by Colonel Ibanez, which consists of ~t 4m iron bar in the form of an inverted "T," of two bars of iron 71111" thick, the one in the vertical position bemg 12001 ru high and the one in the horizontal f)6mm wide. They are fastened together throughout their entire length with angle irons bolted through the two bars. Four mercur.ial thermometers are placed m metallic
111

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

255

contact with the bars. The graduation trace for the micrometer pointing is made on the top surface of the vertical member of the bar. In the field measurement the apparatus is uncovered, ___ ..,. 7'"·""· but the operations are conducted under a wooden I shelter. ·I E1 Eight bases have been measured with this appa£1 ratus with relative errors of measurement ranging ~ ...I from. rnt-uuli to rcut 300 · (S(le Memorias del I ~nstituto Geographico, Vol. III, 1881.) I Three bases have been measured in Switzerland with this apparatus. Their lengths are 2·4, 2·5, and 3·2 kilometres, and the relative errors of measurement are, respectively, -~-10-!-00-0, Tuu-fn·oo' and rH-0--ooo·
I

Ba.~e

apparatus-bimetallic eomJJensating (optical)
INDIA.

The bases of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India have all been measured with the Colby apparatus, which is compensating and optical, the unit of measurement being the yard. Tho bars of brass and iron are 10·1 feet (3·08 111 ) long, 0·55 by 1·5 inches (14·0 111 m by 38·1""") in cross section, and 1·3 inches (33·0 111 ' " ) apart, rigidly connected at their centers by a pair of small steel cylinders. These bars are free to · expand from or contract. toward their centers independently of each other. Across each extremity is pivoted a short compensating lever projecting beyond the iron bar. The compensation point is marked on a silver pin near the extremity of each lever. The distance of this point from the axes of the pivots of attachment to the brass and iron bars is intended to be exactly in the same proportion as the coefficient of expansion of the two metals are to each other. The compound bar is inclosed in a wooden case, and each component rests at one-fourth and three~fourths of its length on brass rollers which a.re fixed to the bottom of tlie box and have raised flanges to prevent lateral motion. Longitudinal motion is prevented by means of a stay fixed firmly to the bottom of the box at its center and projecting upward between the two steel cylinders. Here a spirit level is attached parallel to the direction of the bars, and is read through a glass cover in the top of the box. The compensation levers project about 2 inches beyond the sides of the box nearest the iron bar. There are six of these compound bars, designated A, B, C, D, E, and H, supported on strong brass tripods which arc capable of communicating motion in a lateral, longitudinal, and vertical direction. The points of compensation of these bars are placed about 6 inches apart, and the distance between is read by a pair of microscopes attached to two parallel bars of brass and iron, both being free to expand or contract toward their centers. . The adjustments are so made that the outer foci of tlie object glasses are compensation points exactly 6 inches apart.

256

U. S. COAST AND G'EODETIC SURVEY.

As the measures are invariably made in the 110rizontal position of the bars, the grou11<l has to be prepared very carefully and vertical offsets are made from time to time as the inclination of the ground demands. 'L'hc apparatus refJ uires 8 oflicers. 'l'lw number of men is not stated. Ten bases average between 6 and 7 miles in lengtlI, and were measured with an average speed of about 1,000 feet (:305 per day. Excluding all constant errors, the probable error of a single measurement is ::!:: uii-lo-u-o· Including all known arnl estimated errors, tbe probabl~ error of a single mcasurcme11t of a base is taken at ::l.c :nrl 0- 0--ir· (Sec Report. Great Trigonometrical Survey of India, Vol. I.)
1 ")

l3a8c appnratus.
BA.VAIUA.

In Bavaria the Heichenhaeh apparatus was used in the early part of the century. It co11siste1l ol' five iron bars eadt 11111 lo11g and 22m 111 square. 'l'hc ends of these iron rods teru1inated in blunt knifo edges, that at one end being in tlie vertical and the other iu tllc horizontal plane. During the process of nwasm·e111ent a vertical and horizontal knife edge are brnught withi11 about 4111111 of each other, the distance between them being mcasun~d with a carefully constrnctcd, graduated, long taperfog we<lge of hanlencd steel. The temperature was obtained with mercurial thermometers brought into contact with the metal of the bar. The secornl longest base on record, uearly '..!O kilometres long, was measured with this appamtus.
SWEDEN.

Prof. Edward .Hiderin, of St<Jckholm, has experimented quite extentiively with metallic wires a1Hl tapes, using- two different metals, such as brass and irou, for the purpose of obtaining- the temperature cor· rection from them. No base lines of uote have, however, t!nu; far been measured in Europe with snch apparatus. His results are published under the following titles: "Gcodiitische Liingcnmessungcn mit Stahlbiindern und Metalldriihten, VOii Edw. Jliderin, Stockholm, 1885; ,, also "Bxpos6 elemeutaire de la nouvelle methode 1le l\L Bdonanl ,J iiderin pour la mesure des droites geodesiques au moye11 de llandes d'acier ct de fils metalliques, par P. B. Bergstrall(l, ingenieur au bureau central d'arpentage, a Stockholm, 1885;" and ".1\farklig LiingdfOrandring hos gcodetiska basmiituingsstrnngar at Bd v. ,Jii.driu, 18!.13, Stockholm."

Base apparatus-bimetallic, noncompcnsating, contact.
'.l'HB JlESSEL DASE APPARATUS.

As this appliance has been m;ed in several countries, a genera] description will answer. In the usual form of the apparatus the measuring bar is of iron,, of rectangular cross section, on tlie upper side of which resti:

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

257

a similar bar of zinc, but somewhat shorter. One end of this zinc bar is securely fastened to the iron bar near one of its extremities, the other end being free to expand. At each end of thl~ iron measuring bar and on its upper surface are permanently fixed blocks of metal, the outer ends of wl1ich terminate in hardened knife edges, situated in the vertical plane. The fixed block on the eud at which the free end of the zinc element rests has another vertical knife edge pointing toward the free end of the zinc bar, which also terminates with a vertical knife edge, leaving a small space between these two edges. The difference of expansion between the iron and zinc for temperature correction to the iron bar is here measured by inserting a carefully consitucted graduated glass wedge. The customary method is to use four of these bars, placing their ends near each other and measuring the small intervening space with the glass wedge previously mentioned. This apparatus has been used in the following countries: In Belgium two bases have been measured, being, respectively,2·3 to 2·5 kilometres in length, with relative errors of measurement of T ..nnhioo and "D"-li-d-ocn1· In Prussia eight bases have been measured, ranging in length from 900 toises (1·7 kilometres) to 7·0 kilometres, with relative errors of measurement ranging from rn.1.. 00 ·0- to rn;-!-cnn>· In Denmark one base 1381) toises (2·7 kilometres) long has been measured with relative error of measurement of H1rinrn· In Italy nine bases have been measure1l with it, ranging in length from 340 (0·66 kilometres) to 5,150 toises (10·0 kilometres), with relative errors of measurement ranging from i-90 l.000 to :i,,,.~-t--00· 0 ·

Base apparatus-bimetallic, noncompensating (optical).
'l'IIE BRUNNER APPAR.A.'fUS.

As this apparatus has also been used in several countries, only a general description is a.ttempted. It is a single bar 4m long. As used by the French and Germans the ineasuring bar is of platinum-iridium, attached to which is a brass one. The two form a Borda scale for determining the difference of the lengths of the bars due to changes of temperature. The microscopes mounted on independent supports have an arrangement for makiBg optical cutoffs and also an attachment for aligning the bars. The measurements are now made under canvas-covered frames, which are brought forward in sections. At present this apparatus is the 0110 that is in general favor on the Continent. It has been used in the following countries: Iu Prussia three bases of 1198 toises (2·3 kilometres), 1417 toises (2·8 kilometres), and 2·5 kilometres have been measured, with respective l'.elative errors of measurement of rirot'110 p, rinrf.1i-oo, and rn~o· $. Ex. 19, pt. 2-1'i .

258

U. S. COAST A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In France three bases have been measured with it, for only one of which the relative error is given. This is the Paris Base, which is 7·2 kilometres long, with a relative error of measurement of 2 '°A 0 0 0 · This base was measured by two details of officers and men, each detachment consisting of 4 officers and 25 men. The operations were conducted with a rapidity of about 300m per day.
Ba.~e

appara.tus-11fono met<dlic contact.
H.USSIA.

The principal apparatus used is that of Struve, which consists of an iron bar 12 French feet (nearly 4111 ) in length and 15 by 15 lines (about 34mm by 34mm) in cross section. One end of the bar terminates in a steel plane and the other has a lever pivoted to it. This lever is so arranged that the bar coming in contact with it acts as a fulcrum and its longest free end moves over a divided scale. Mercurial thermometers, whose bulbs are placed in cavities iu the iron bars, are m;ed. Seven bases have been measured with .tliis apparatus, ranging in length from 1·15 to !H) kilometres. The same relative error of measurement is given for all of them, viz, TT,~ooo· For the measurement of secondary bases the Jiiderin apparatus bas been used, and is considered sufficiently accurate for the purpose-namely, cartographic operations.

Oontact xcale-1llono-Metallic.
AUS'.l'RlA.

In .Austria-Hungary an apparatus is usl~d consisting of an iron bar of rectangular cross section, which rests on 12 brass plates fastened to the top surface of a wooden beam which has a wooden cover. The ends of these iron measuring bars, of which 4 are used in regular succession, have plane end surfaces. During the operation of measurement the bars are so placed that their ends are a short distance apart, and the distance between is measured with a short scale made in two parts, which slide on each other, the respective ends of which come in contact with the bars. Two mercurial thermometers are used for determining the temperature of each bar. Five observers and 16 men are required to use this apparatus. Nineteen bases have been measured wip1 this appliance; all of them twice in opposite directions. They range from 2·4 kilometres to 9·5 kilometres in length. The relative error of measilrement is only given for one, that of the d'Ilidze base, which is 3-'To3o1nr·

Base apparatus-bimetallic, c01itact, compensating.
THE LAKE SURVEY oOF THE UNITED STATES.

The first refined appliance used by this organization was a copy of the Bache-Wurdemann contact compensating apparatus, as used by theOoast Survey at that time. These bars are 15 feet (4~5~m) long, and

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

259

were used, between the years 1867and1875, in the measurement of five bases, whose lengths ranged from 4·9 to 8·8 kilometres, with relative errors ranging· from 5:.-o.i.liou to iir8.i.ooo·
OP1'WAL lllME'l'ALLIC, NONCOMPENSA:l'ING.

Subsequently the Lake Survey l{epsold optical bimetallic apparatus was devised and used. 'l'his consists of a steel measuring bar 4m long, by the side of which is a similar one of zinc. 'fhe two are firmly fastened together in the middle. '£heir unequal expansion is observed upon scales at both ends for determining· the temperature of the steel bar. 'rtlis combination of the two metals is supported by a system of rollers adjusted inside the carrying tube so as to keep them in their proper relation to each other and to 'allow free expansion. 'fhere were also two mercurial thermometers at each end, with their bulbs inside the tube cylinder. 'l'he bar is provided with a telescope for alignment and a sector for measuring· the inclinations. In measuring, the bar is supported at the extreme ends of the carrying tube on trestles whose heads are provided with movements in three directions, by which the tube is placed in position under microscopes which are mounted on independent stands. Five officers and recorders aud. 12 laborers were required to make the measurements, an average day's work being about 300 Three bases were measured with this apparatus between the.years 1877 and 1879, ranging in length from 6·2 to 7·6 kilometres, with relative errors of from ru!r~ooo to rO'!+ouu· (See Comstock's report "Triangulation of the Great Lakes," professional papers, Corps of Engineers, U.S. A., 1892.)
111 ·

COAS'l' A::-.D GEODETIC SUltVEY.

The Coast and Geodetic Survey bas used various appliances. As early as 1817 a single bar 8"' long, made np of four iron bars 2m each in length, clamped end to end, was· devised and constructed by Mr. Hassler. The relative errors with this apparatus were about :i°1fif-u-ro· This was the first optical monornetallic apparatus used in this country. It also had the aligning sector attached to the top of the carrying case and the terminal micrometer microscopes identical in principle with those now in use. ,(American Philosophical '£ransactions, Vol. II, New Series, pp. 273-28B.) In 1845-46 the Bache-Wurdemann lever contact compensating apparatus was devised, and was in use up to 1873. The best results that have been obtained with it have a relative error of about ~Hii· Since then the Schott compensatmg apparatus with contact slide has been used on two difierent bases, only one of which has been finally reduced, viz, the Yolo,·172- kilometres in length, with a relative error of
1

I!irlo~oo·

"260

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In 1891 a steel bar in ice, with optical apparatus, waR used in measuring a kilometre of the Holton Base, with a relative error of about 11-a--o-ii-o· ou· For secondary bases the contact slide monometallic apparatus with mercurial thermometen.1 has been used since 1855. It has demonstrated its possibilities up to a degree of accuracy of one part in GOOOOO. Since 1890 two bases of 5·:J and .'3·8 kilometres have been measured with the standard tape with relative errors not exceeding one part in
500000. Wire rneasurementl'I have been iu nse since the year 1848, varying

in degree of accuracy as required by the conditions to be fulfilled. The Eim beck duplex apparatus, although suggested in February, 1885,' has been only recently constructed by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. Its principle is to make the bars themselves determine the correction t.lue to changes of temperature without having recourse to the uncertain use of thermometers in the field, excepting it be to furnish additional data. The later forms of apparatus in the United States are more fully n~ferred to and discussed individually.
WOODW AIW STEEL BAR IN MELTING ICE.

For a test of the performance of different kinds of apparatus we turn to the experiences gained in this country by the measurement of the Holton base in Indiana, on a section of which, for the first time, the temperature effect was eliminated by the measurement of 1 kilometre of the base with a steel bar in ice. The section was then measured with a mom steel tape apparatus, and, thirP,ly, with the secondary contact slide apparatus, forms of apparatus so radically different that an agreement between the results obtained by them increases very greatly the probauility of correctness of the several results. The detailed report of the experiments, measurement, and reduction of the Holton Base will be found in the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1892, Part"II, Appendix No. 8. 'fhe salieut facts resultipg from the experiments made there, appear to be that with the 5 111 steel bar in melting ice, whereby the temperature error is eliminated, a base line can be measured with a degree of accuracy hitherto unapproached. One kilometre of the Holton Base was measured four times with this bar in eight working days. After l'roper preparation 800 bars were laid in forty-two and one-half hours, at an average rate of l!l bars, or 95w, per hour, and a maximum rate of 00 bars, or 150m, per hour. This rate of measurement is satisfactory. In cost of operation this apparatus is little, if any, interior to the Brunner apparatus now used abroad.
THE SECOND.A.RY CON'.l'.A.CT SLIDE .A.PP.A.R.A.'l'US.

In the measurement of the Holton Base with this apparatus, after comparisons with the ioou· comparator there established, it degree of lm~cisiou was obtaiued far bero11d tl:w µ~eds of tho triUiUgulatton

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

261

dependent thereon. The length of the base line is 5·5 kilometres, and it was measured twice in fourteen days. Two thousand six hundred bars were laid in eighty-three and one-half honrs, with an average rate of 31 bars, Hi5m, per hour, and a maximum of 'U bars, or 205w, in one hour. No grading, and very little preparation of the ground, is necessary for this apparatus. Tho cost of measuring a base with it is about the same as with the steel tape. It is believed that if the bar be made to rest upon rollers aud the th£1rrnometers be placed in better metallic contact with the bar the apparatus will be improved, with very trifling addition to the wmght. This apparatus should be compared, before and after any base measurement, with the 100111 comparator, or directly with the 5m steel bar in ice. In the measurements or bases by bars the contact slide has been used with sufficient frequency to establish its efficiency for rapid and accurate _measurement. The ra:nge of error in making a coincidence does not exceed one-twentieth millimetre, and in the large number of con· tacts made in one measurement of a base the probability is that the plus and minus errors will balance each other.
STEEL TAPE.

The steel tapes, graduated to 1()() at present iu use on the Coast and Geodetw Survey are 101·01'11 long, 6·34mm by O·J.7rn 111 in cross section, and weigh 22·3 grammes per metre of length. They are subdivided into 20 111 spaces by graduations ruled on the tape itself. The eud graduatiom; fall about 0·5m from the tape ends, which terminate in loops formed by annealing and riveting the tape back on itself. The surface of the tape, where it is not polished to receive the graduation, is of a dull black color. When not in use the tapes are rolled up on reels not less than 0·3 111 in diameter, and may thus be transported with ease aud safety. The stretchers used with these tapes are fully described in Professor Woodward's report of the Holton Base, as also the method of preparing the line, making the measurement, protecting the therlllometers, etc. The determination of the t-0mperature is, as in all other forms of base apparatus, the most uncertain element in the operation, and needs further study and investigation. The experiments and measures at the Holton and St. Alban's bases, Which were measured six and five times, respectively, have shown rela~ive errors of 1: 1300 000, which are very satisfa<.:tory, and may be diminished when the temperature is more accurately determined. Judging from these experiences, the steel tape commends itself for accuracy, and over many varieties of surface and classes of ground illy adapted to an apparatus supported on trestles, great economy may be expected from its use.
111 ,

262

U. S. CO.AST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Carefully and judiciously handled, the steel-tape apparatus will doubtless attain a good standing throughout the United States, where so many extensive and independent surveys are being carried on, and especially in all newly undertaken projects. The published accounts of foreig11 base measurements do not give sufficient data to judge of the emit of the measurement nor of the number of officer:; and men necessary, save in two instances; neither are the rates of measurement always spedfied, although it may be assumed to be very close to :mo111 per diem. The oflicers and men lJelo11g to the military arm of the Government service, and even if we knew their numbers the cost of measurement would not be readily comparable with civilian work. It is very hkely that more soldiers are detailed for the work of measurement than are absolutely necessary. For example, we find for the mea~mrmnent of the Bonn Base the foliowi11g detail: One civilian chief, 6 ofliccrs, 8 oflicials, 2 subalterns, 11 pioneers, and 42 infantry soldiers, a total of 70 persons. And in the· measurement of the Paris Base 58 otficers and soldiers served )n two detachments at difforeut t.trnes. The following tables have been appended to give an idea of the number, length, etc., of the bases measured in foreign countries and in the United States. Table I shows the number of geodetic bases measured in the various countries doing geodetic work. Table II shows the approximate length of these bases. Table III gives the principal bases of the United States, together with approximate length, relative error, and apparatus used. Tables IV and V give more completely, statistics of a few of the most important bases of the T::"nited States.
'rAllLlc

I.--1'able showing the 111t111ber of geodetic bases 111e.as11reil b!J the 11a1'ious co11nt1'ies
doin11 11eoilcf.io work.
, ·I .

Name of country.

J

-----~-----------------,

- _______ l_T_______I - ..
Number. Name of t'ountry.
I ='iumbc1.
I·

ii

!

Austria-Hungary-----Belgium______________ Denmark ____________ . France:mdAlg1ers ___ .. _ Germany __ ,___________ <;re~tBritain __ · ..------I?d1a and Cape Colony__ Greece _______ ,________ Holland______________ ltaly_________________

19
2 2

13 15 · 7 13
I

9

'; Norway______________ 4 I Peru __ .. __ .. __________ _ Portugal______________ I Russia_______ ______ 20 . Spain__________ __ 9 j ~weden ______________ 6 Sw1t1.Crland _- - - - - - - - - -1 5 Umted States--------_ 29 . ---Total -----------I1 157 J
1·

I

I

Ii
11

I

,

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
TABLE

263

II.-Table altowi11g lengtlui of geodetic baaea oompiledfrom 157 baaes of tile worltl.

;-----~:~;~:-----·1~:~~er._
0- 1 I- 2 2- 3 3.:.. 4 4- 5 5- 6

/ ___~h~~ ____ /~_umb~-11-12 12-13 13-14 14-15 15-16 16-17

kilometres_____

1

kilometres_____
"

12

5
28 15 13 16

6
3 3

6- 7

IO
10 14 5 10

17-18
18-19 l<}--20 20-21 21-22

7- 8 8- 9
9-IO
10-11

3
2

TABLE

111.-..4 table of the most important baau in the D11iltd Stales.
Date.

o:i

l...:l
~

Name of base.

State.

Ol;server.

App:uatus.

Approx-1 Probable I
imatc error.

I

U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. Fire Island Kent Island Boston and Providence R. R. Dauphin Island Bodies Island Edisto Island Key Biscayne Cape Sable Epping Plains Craney Island Portsmouth Island Peach Tree Ridge Lebanon Spring Green Louisville El Paso Greenville Yolo St. Paul, Snelling A venue Los Angeles Holton
St. Albans

Relative error. length. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ ---1 1

New York Maryland Massachusetts Alabama North Carolina South Carolina Florida Maine Virginia North Carolina Georgia Tennessee Wisconsin Kentucky Colorado Mississippi California Minnesota 1 California Indiana West Virginia Minnesota Wisconsin Michigan New York Illinois Ohio Illinois
1

"

1834 1844 1844 1847 1848 1S50 1855 1855 1857 1869 1870 1872-3 1877 1878 1879 1879 1880 1881 1888 1889 1891 1892 1870 1872 1873 1874 1875 1877 1878

J. Ferguscr

F. R. Hassler

Hassler Sm bars Bache-Wurdemann ·6m

E.B!unt A. D. Bache

" "

" "

km. 14·0 8·7 17·3 I0·6

mm.
58·5 38 I 35·8 26 25·5 25·6 12·7 15·7 15 ·8 37·0 49·1 16·6 14·7 1-240 000 1-228 000 1-484 000 1-410 000 1-425 000 1-419 000 1-456 000 1-410 000 1-552 000 1-140 000 1-181 000 1-562 000 1-490 ooo 17·~ 1-263 ooo 32·0 1:...256 000 18·6 1-6o7 000 1-216 000 9·7 I 9·57 I 1-1 820 000 3·50 4·00 3·0
11 ·4 II ·4
I-I I-I I-I

~

"
"

"
cc

I0·8
10'7 5·8 6·4 8·7 5·1 9·0
I

f"

·i

R. E. Halter G. A. Fairfield C. 0. Boutelle A. H. Buchanan J. E. Davies G. A. Fairfield I 0. H. Tittmann I C.H . .Boyd I G. Davidson C. 0. Boutelle G. Davidson 0. H. Tittmann I R. S. Woodward

"

I

' ' I

a 0 > U2
t-3

6m contact slide bars

" " I Bache-\Vurdemann
6m contact slide bars
4m 6m 6tn 4m " '' '' " " '' '' "

!

>
I
I

9"3 7'3
4.7 8·2 11 ·3 2·1

~
~

I

t,:i:j

0

5m Schott comi;ensating
6m contact slide bars

li°S
8·7

8 ......
Q
[/)

~ ~

I
' !

I 5m contact slide
1

, 5m Schott compensating
IOom steel tape

17'5

U. S. Lake Surve··:
Minnesota Point Fond du Lac Keweenaw Sandy Hook Buffalo Chicago Sandusky Olney

"

"
"
"

S"5 5·5
3·87 6·1 7·4

"

570 370 290

000 000 000

~ ~

I

I

C. B. Comstock E. S. Wheeler

:<
"
I I

trj

<

Bache- \Vurdemann

" "

8·8
4·9 6·8 6·2 6·6

II

·I

10·6 5·3 7·6

Repsold

i878

" "

7'5

7"4
5·4 6·4

1-530 000 1-649 000 1-830 000 l-<)18 000 1-8S9 ooo 1-1 052 000 1-1 148 6oo 1-1 013 000

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
TABLE

265

IV.-United StateB Coaat and Geodetic Surlley-Measu1·emtmts of prinia,1·11 baso lines.
[Prepared by Assistant Edward Goodfellow.]
THE BACHE-WURDRMANN COMl'ENl'?ATING BASE APPARATUS.

Year of

measure.I

I

Locality, etc.

Length of base.

Meantem· Probable Profor· D Average error of. tiona part cay~~- len~th per peratureof ay. length. of length. Upl . measure.

I

i-------

---- -- -----111.

----yo.
84·5 52·0 59·5 82·9 17 10 13 9 627·17 1084·17 824·72 664·32

1855

1855

111. m. Dauphin, Island, 10661 ·8376 ±0·026o .-nhrr Aln. Sand, · low grass, rushes, etc. Bodies Island, N. C. 10841 ·7524 J ±0·0255 ~Sen beach, sandy and marshy. Edisto Island, S. C. 10721 ·4231 ±0·0286 .-nh-rrir Cultivated fie 1d s, clay and loam. Key Biscayne, Fla. 5789·2262 ±0·0127 i unn Calcareous soil, coarse grass, palmettoes, etc. Cape Sable, Fla. 6431 ·5913 I ±0·0157 .-rnf-o'1flr Calcareous soil, grass, samphire weed, etc. Epping Plains, Me. 8715·9422 ±0·0158 rifoa Rolling, sandy plain, many irregular ridges.

8

803·95

87·9

8

1089·49

70·0

"-------'------· -

--·----· ·-·-------

Norn.-1894, January 27-The data given here and on the following page for the seven primary bases measured with the Bache-Wur<lemann apparatus have been taken from the annual reports, except for Epping Base, which w::s furnished by Assistant Schott.

TABLE

V.-Base iine statistics, Febr11ary, 1894-United States <;oast and Geodetic Surrey Co11ferene<J:

~

Date.

I

:Same, locality, etc.

Apparatus.

um- her of bi:;~~f Itimes used. meas1

N

Num-

.I I
Length.

p~~o"r~lel

I
'I

iI
/'art of ength.

i'X

m A,-er-1

i

I I
of. ba" laid (a).

I

0)

a.>

!· ) · '':,r -! numage . i·Great-! u rs, est 1 :\um-1 1 Proportional bcr hou · ! ber· 1 ·~umber num-

ured.

I days m~asI unng.

.

m.

1-:-1---- -- '----,I

ber b_ar~ 1 i!ars , hour . laid .n, (b). I or ( a ) I·r hour.:
!

"')~~bars : ing! per
I
(bl.

I

I

I
'
'

!

Remarks.

1872 I Atlanta Base, Peach Tree Ridge, near Atlanta, Ga.-Soil, loam and clay. 1879 El Paso Base, EI l'aso County, Colo. 1881 Yolo Base, Yolo County. Cal.-5oil, dark loam, stiff clay, and some sand. Los Angeles Base. California. Hollon Base. Ripley County, Ir.d.
do.

Bache-Wurdemann bime- i 22 tallic compensating ( 6m ). : Secondary b'ars and thermometers Nos. 13 and 14, monometallic (6"'). Schott compensating 5m zinc and steel bars with thermometers.
clo.
IO

31 9,338 [
'
. I

0~·66

I ----

\

>.Im

4'

1,,,
I
I

j ·9

i 4"47
I
I

-r·-,--------1 I I
30 \
43
57 64 41 30 30 10 in 20 minutes. 28 i :-.lost of the tape I measures were 1 made at night. Highest rate, 40:> bars in i" 24m.

~ fll
0 II>' r:JJ 8

a

2

I
.,0-,,t-gn

i
~

\u,2891·0·0186!

i

I
J

19

2 1 i7,486

I

i 0·0096 !

..--.h-n

: l ' 46 ,247 ,.
I
I

23 ,125

3~!

3,822

I

34~ 8,494

'

> z
t:1
0

i
18
9

I
35 !10,597

~·
~

1889 1891 1891 1891 1892

3 I 17.495

Secondary bars and thermometers Nos. 3 and 4 (501). Iced steel bar No. 17 and microscopes.

I I

50

boo \ I
I
83·51
'

t:1

.

8 .....

.
0·0035
r:,7 0 -;;in;

a

215,500

14 8 17 4

3I

i
I

2,6oo 8oo t5o8

88 12 12

41
6

1,000 1·0·004

11--.,nhrnu
l;!-:-h-r:r
1Ttd1TI3"

42·5 29·5 11·4

19 \ 17 .17

t;r:.I

~
~

<lo. St. Albans Base, West Virginja.

1oom steel tapes
and 88.
do.

Nos. 85

! 5,500

J

5

3,870 ['0·0030

t

1 95

------ ------

· Obtainei Crom Proressor Woodward's computations.

I Number of tape lengths.

REPORT

FO~

1893~PAI-t'r

Il.

267

From th.e six earlier bases measured with the heavy Bache-Wurdemann apparatus given in Table IV we condense the following statistics: Each base was measured but once, and the total of the lengths measured was 53 kilometres, at th~ rate of 849m per diem, and the highest daily averag·e was 1089m, No hours are given, 'and the number of officers and men is not mentioned. The relative error varied betwee.n 1: 410 000 and 1: 5.53 000; but these in eluded the error of unit of standard aud reduction to sea level. From the later bases of the Coast an<l Geodetic Survey, g·iven in Table V, tbe following statistics are obtained: Five. bases each-0mployell 17 men, who measured rnom per hour, and reacbed 2ooom in seven and one-half hours (in third measurement). The reduced measures give relative errors from l: 563 000 to l: 1822 000. Two bases measured with steel tapes employed 12 men, who measured the bases six and five times, respectively, at the rate of 1280m per hour. These gave relative errors of 1: 1375 000 and 1: 1290 000. 'rhe relativ~ errors of all these n~easurements include the unit of standard, etc. In the measurement of Yolo and Los Angeles bases with the Schott apparatus the following officers and men were employed: Six officers, 6 men at bars, tripod, and plates, 5 men pushing movable cover, etc. Besides these necessary people, there were 1 man for bridges, extra driver, etc., 1 watchman, 1 driver, ~{ cooks and waiters.
THE SI'l'E OF 'l'HE BASE LINE.

·In a mountainom1 region the selection of a site is frequently a very difficult matter. It should be located by the reconnaissance party, and, ·if practicable, more than one should 'Qe selected. One of the factors in the rapidity of measurement of the base line, whether primary or secondary, is the character of the site. In any case it should be prepared with only sufficient care to permit effective measurement by the apparatus used. If bars and trestles are used, the surface should be no more disturbed than to permit the prompt placing of the tripod Rupports.
l~Il~LD PROCEDURl·~.

The method of procedure in the field must necessarily vary according to the apparatus used and the local conditions of the country. An example of the method used with the slide contact bars can be found in reports on the Yolo and Los Angeles bases in the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey lfoport for 1882, Appendix: S, and Report for 1889, Appendix 10. For the method u~ed with the iced steel bar and lOOm steel tapes Aee Professor Woodward's reports on the Holton and St· .Albans bases. In the work of measurement the first measure requires time for drill· ing all persons in precision and rapidity of action, and a, repetition of the measure can be made in much less time than the first and very

268

U. S. CO.A.ST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

probably with more accuracy.

The rapidity of measurement conduce8

to accuracy when movable tripod supports are used, because it lessens
the liability of change in the position of the bar. For transferring the end of the bar to the ground when measurement is suspended various forms of apparatus have been used. For end contact bars some form of transit sector is generally used. It is set up at right angles to the base, opposite to the end of the bar, the terminal of which is transferred by means of it to a scale placed on the ground mark. When the optical measuring apparatus is used, the Rep:<old cut-off is preferred, a description of which can be found in the Report of the Lake Survey.
'.l'HE ACCURACY A'l"J'AINAilLE IN BASE MEASUREJ\IBNTS.

The great importance to geodesy of the adoption of the metre as the intemational unit of length need not be pointed out, but the establishment of a.n International Bureau of Weights and Measures for the comparison of standards is here adverted to, not only in recognition of its emi11ent services to geodesy, but because its work must now be taken as the standard of attainable accuracy in metrological work. Attention may also be called to the results of a study made recently at the International Bureau of Weights an<l Measures of nickel and certain alloys in regard to their suitability for line standards. Nickel bronze and aluminium bronze showed a decided chm1ge in length after repeated heating to 100° and cooling to 0°. Phosphor bronze showed no sneh change. A short nickel bar was found to answer all the requfrernents considered, namely, price, hardness, suscepti.bility to a high polish, high modulus of elasticity, and resistance to deteriorating effects of moisture aud of such chemical agencies as itre commouly used in laboratories. Nickel bars of suitable lengths for geodetic standards have, however, as yet not been made. From the report of the International Conference on the Construction and Comparison of the New Metric Prototypes, of which the United States has two, it appears that the probable error of the result of the comparison of two prototypes was only :±0·04 micron at the temperature at whfoh the comparisons were made. Taking into account, however, the coefficient of expansion of~' the final estimate of the accuracy reached is stated in the folJowing words:
It may be concluded, therefore, that the equations of the prototypes lead to CL knowledge of their ab11oluto lengths with an 1werage probable uncertainty which, under the temperature conditions usual iu metrologica.l operations-that is, between 20° and 25° C.-lies between O·l micron and 0·2 micron, and at n higlrnr temporntnre it may slightly e~ceed the last-montionecl limit.

The belief is also recorded that if the comparisons bet.ween all the prototypes were gone over again the mean differences found would be of that order of magnitude.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

269

When it is considered that the comparisons above referred to were made under tlle most favorable conditions, such as uniformity of tempern.ture, identity of material, perfect illumination, and that slight imperfections in the latter alone introdu<·.e very material discrepancies, we may conclude that no geodetic standard can be known with a higher degree of accuracy than 1 part in 5 000 000 of its length in terms of the international unit. Since all the operations involved in base measurement tend to decrease this degree of accuracy, we may assume that 1 part in 5 000 000 of its length is a higher degree of accuracy than can ever be attained in practice by known methods. 11; in contradistinction to this estimate, the probable errors of certafo famous base measures, like that of the Madridjos Base, are cited (r,-,;·t1i--;,-u6 ), it mm;t be remembered that they do not refer to the absolute length of the base. That it is possible to measure a base line repeatedly with the same apparatus with a surprising accordance between measures, indicates that the elimination of the accidental errors has boeu successfully met by the different form.s of apparatus in use; and it is also belieyed that the various methods of observing successive leu gths of the same bar or system& of bars are sufficiently precise. On the other hand, that constant errors exist which are in the main due to a detective knowledge of the temperature of the bars is a fact commonly assumed or proven by the lag of mercurial or bimetallic thermometers used 011 various apparatus. These constaut errors are not easily determined, but are now the principal sources of error. Recently experiments to elucidate this point have been made abroad, as well as in this country, by measuring the same base with different forms of apparatus. Thus, a base at Bonn has been measured with the Bessel apparatus and again with the Brunner. '.r11e results of the measurement with the Bessel apparatus, marlo twice with rising and twice with falling temperatures, indicate a relative error of r 60 }-000 · The same base, which is 2·5 kilometres long, was then measured with the Brunner apparatus, and it is stated that the agreement with the former measures is excellent, if we regard a discrepancy of 1 cm, or :.iiolauo' as a constant error, the cause of which is not, however, known and is being investigated. We also have the results of the measurements of the Undine Base, as obtained by the Austrians with their apparatus and by the Italians with the Bessel apparatus. Here the difference is only 4mm in a total length of 3·248 kilometres, or 1 n.,-h, 00 · The Brunner apparatus, elsewhere described, is the one used most recently in France and by General Derrecagaix. It is considered a model form ofa modern base apparatus, and his opinion was apparently shared by other geodesists, for the Spanish, French, and Germans have ado~ted it, notwithstanqin~ its great cost {l.Ud the slowneiss of ita manipulation,

270

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The relative error of measurement for the Brunner apparatus, as used by the French, is about 2 - 40-5-o·u- 0 , but the experience gained at Bonn indicates that the measure of its real accuracy is still open to question, as above mentioned. The measurement of the Holton Base witli the lOOrn steel tape and 5m secondary bars in the United States also shows a marked difference. Each considered alone g1ves a relative error of less than -~0-0+ 001,-, yet differ by 1 part in 350 000.
NUMBER 01" MEASUREllEN'.1.'S
01~

A BASE

LINJ~.

As a test of the accuracy of the work. and to afford an opportunity for eliminating errors of temperature each base should be measured at least twice. It has already been stated that, owing to the experience gained in a :first measurement, the second can be made much more rapidly than the :first. On this account, and becamie a large part of the cost of such operations is the expense of preparing the line, putting the party and equipment into the field and taking them out, the second measure increases the cost of the work but slightly, while the advantage derived from it is very great. Whenever the steel tape is used for primary work it is recommended that at least four measures be made, using two different tapes, and in such a manner as to eliminate the effect of' thermometer lag as nearly as possible; i.e., by measuring each section with each tape under botll rising and falling temperatures.
FitEQUENOY 01!' BASE LINES.

In many cases the length of the triangle sides and the nature of the country constrain the economical introduction of bases. Areas like the great plains, however, afford mimy opportunities for introducing bases economically, and where that can be done it is advisable to obtain accuracy by a multiplication of bases rather than by refinements in the triangulation.
RELATION OF THE ACOUUACY OF JJASE MEASUREMENT TO '.l.'RIANGUL.A.TION.

It stands to reason that the degree of accuracy to be aimed at in the measure of a base line depends largely on the object the base has to subserve, on the apparatus and th~ time available, and on the money allotted. Hence, no definite limit can be assigned. With the perfection of the means available a line may readily be measured with a probable error of 1 - 0- 0t-o00 of its length so far as mere measurement is concerned. On the other baud, when all the errors which may enter have contributed their share, the actual uncertainty may be considerably greater. It may be, say, twice or three times the above; but as no additional expense is involved by carefully attendi11g to detail, 'the observer will iu all cases

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

271

do his best with the means on band. The high degree of accuracy ordinarily within his reach at present is, however, rapidly dissipated through the angular measure of the two, three, or more steps required to refor the length of the ba8e to the first line of average length of the triangulation. It may be forth.er remarked that high accuracy in the angular measures of the latter is needed if an error, sn.y 1,110.1...600 , is to be maintained or not to be exceeded throughout the chain of triangles. In tertiary triangulation an average uncertainty or limit of 10\Q 0 , or even .,-n-o0 , may be satisfactory for the special purpose. For intermediate secondary triangulation the fraction of the length na1--uoo to 5 -u-1000 may be suitable, and the degree of accuracy for the base supporting such work should be graduated accordingly, yet with the precaution above adverted to. The observer should pay especial attention to the minute and careful centering of the stations which constitute the base figure.
RECOl\1MENDA.TION~.

In conclusion, the committee recommend tlrnt further experiments with the steel tape be made especially with a view to a better determim1.tion of its tempernturci. This recommendation seems to be warranted by the resnlts of the measurements of the Holton Base. 2. That the new duplex apparatus just completed by the Survey'be given a thorough and careful trial n~ soou as practicable. 3. That the iced bar be used to lay off a 100"' comparator at the bases where the above recommendations are followed. 4. That iu all measurement due regard be paid to rising and falling temperatures, so as to eliminate as much as possible the errors due to lack of knowledge of temperature of the measuring appai·atus. 5. That the tripods for supporting bars be made of metal, and embrace the details which experience has shown to be conducive to accuracy and rapidity of measurement. 6. That ordinarily the base line be divided into sections one half kilometre in length. 7. That a 100111 comparator be established in Washington forthepur. pose of testing steel tapes and contact slide apparatus. 8. That in future use of the steel bar in ice the water in the Y trough be not drained off below the surface of the bar, in order to remove any possibility of doubt as to tho actual temperature of the bar. GEOIWE DAVIDSON, Chctirman. OWEN B. FRENCH, Seoretat·y.

272

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE C, ON TRIANGULATION.
CONTENTS.

l. Object of triangulation.

2. Classification. 3. Primary triangulation. 4. Tertiary triangulation. 5. Secondary triangulation. 6. Adaptation to the Bnrface of the ground. 7. General form of main triangulation. 8. Geometrical composition of 1~ triangulation. 9. Frequency and length of base lines and their connection with the triangulation. 10. Accuracy of triangulation. 11. International and interstate boundaries. 12. Iustrumeutal outfit. 13. Adjustment of iust.rumcnts. H. Method of obsen·ation. 15. Signals and scaffolds. 16. Marking of stations. 17. Note on incidental obsorvn.tions. 18. Ex.planatory note to the accompanying map shqwing tho state of triangulation in the United States in .January, 1894.
IrnPOR1'.

(1) Object of triangulation.-The general o~ject of triangulation is well understood. It is primarily to furnish absolute or relative geographic positions of a series of prominent points spread over extended areas, and, secondarily, to provide the necessary data for topographic and hydrographic surveys. It furnishes the three coordinates of each place, viz, tlle latitude, the longitude; and the altitude. (2) Olassification.-In its execution great diversity exists, depending upon the special object of the work, as, for instance, whether designed as a contribution to the measure of the figure of the earth or simply to give the relative positions necessar;r for tbe traverse work of a county or for the production of a city map. The larger operation is purely geodetic in .character; the smaller one refers to plane surveying. The methods of observing, the instruments, the method of computation, the accuracy, etc., are different for different classes of work; hence, for convenience certain more or less well-defined subdivisions' have been made, such as main and subordinate triangulations, primary, secondary and tertiary triangulations. By the term main triangulation we understand the principal ser!es · of triangles which compass along the shortest line the whole extent of the surface or country under consideration, and by subordinate triangulation any series of triangles which depend for their support on the main series and which may, if small enough, be containe~ within it or branch off from it in any direction. The other classificati<,>n, i:p,tQ primary, secondary, and tertiary, is moro tecbuical. ,

REPORT FOR 1898-PART JI.

273

(3) Primary trfo.ngulation is characterized by the greatest development of length of sides practicable (depending on the heights of mountains) and by the greatest accuracy of measure. The geodetic positions will depend on direct observation 1lf astronomical latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. Refined base lines furnish the linear measures. The length of sides may ordinarily vary between 50 kilometres (say, 31 statute miles) and 150 kilometres (say, 93 statute miles), but may reach 250 kilometres (or 155 statute miles), and objects distant 300 kilometres (or 186 statute miles) and over have been sighted. In computing triangulations developed on such large scales (as in California, Xevada, and Utah) we have to consider the spheroidal excess; the reduction to sea level of the horizontal directions on account of height of station sighted; the reduction of the astronomical latitude for height of station occupied, the vertical being a curved line; the employment of formulm for the computation of position of greater accuracy than Puissant's modified formulm, ordinarily used on the Survey; the use of logarithmic tables of eight places of decimals, etc. · (4) Tertiary triangulation is designed to furnish positions of a sufficient number of points as a basis for developing topographic or hydrographic surveys, and its extent is so limited that the area covered may be taken as that of a plane surface; hence the length of its sides is usually between 1 and 15 or 20 kilometres (say, ~ to 9 or 12 statute miles). Five places of decimals sutlice for the computation of its sides. (5) Secondary triangulatfon bears an intermediate character between the other two classes and simply effects the connection between them; i. e., the descent from the long sides of a primary triangulation to the short ones of the tertiary, constitutes its character. Its sides may therefore vary considerably; that is, between the lower limit of the former and the upper limit of the latter class. The spherical excess and Legendre's theorem are introduced and seven places of decimals are generally employed in the computation of its sides. It may be remarked here that in our middle latitudes (about 37°) an area of 196·8 square kilometres (or 76 square statute miles) corresponds to a spherical excess of 1 "· (6) Adapta,tion to the surface of the ground.-In general, the most elevated peaks and mountain ranges, up to the limit of accessibility, are the most favorable positions for stations. Two parallel ranges inclosmg a valley offer great facilities, as the latter can generally be straddled by well-proportioned figures; so also do high bmldmgs in the case of Slllall triangulations. On the other hand, flat regions, especially when Wooded, are to be avoided if pos~ible; also ridges when wooded and of equal height. These and related considerations, however, belong to the subject of reconnaissance (which see). Whether it will be better to build high structures to overcome obstructions or to cut lanes or
S. Ex. 19, pt. 2-18

274

U. S. COAST ANp GEODETIC SURVEY.

avenues through forests is largely a matter of economy of money and time, but high structures do not affect the accuracy of the survey. (7) General form of main triangulation.-Two systems have been employed in the triangulation of countries, the so-called gridiron and central systems. The former starts out with a series of parallel chains of triangles at certain intervals, intersected by other chains at right angles to them. The rectang·ularly shaped open spaces are then to be filled up by subordinate triangles. The latter system starts from the center of the country and extends radially in all directions, thus growing by concentric rings of triangles which eventually will cover the whole area. The first system is far preferable, as it lends itself better to computation (adjustment) and admits of preference being given to the advancement or completion of the survey at certain places. Pract.ically the two systems may alternate or merge into one another. (8) Geometric£il composition of a triangulation.-Triangulation chains may be made up of a series of single connected triangles, a series of hexagons (or other polygons) hinged together on one side, or a series of quadrilaterals placed together. 'rheir relative advantages are: For the triangle series, least number of stations and rapidity of measurehence economy; for the polygon series, great extent of surface covered, and for the quadrilaterals, great a{lcuracy.· In practice the geometrical figures will be found distorted and generally lengthened out in the direction of the axis of the triangulation; likewise interlaced and combined in a variety of ways so a8 to take advantage of favorable points presented.· In the case of single triangles the angle opposite to the base side should not be too small for favorable intersection, and in complex cases the observer should have a well-defined anu uniformly strong scheme, avoiding· complicatiions of lines. (9) Frequenay an<l length of ba.~e lines and their connection with the triangulation.-The number of base lines to be introduced into a trian· gulation, as well as the length of the bases, depends on the average length of the sides of the triangulation and upon the degree of accuracy desired for the latter. Owing to the fact that base lines can be measured, and are rightly measured, with much greater accuracy than can be sustained through a triangulation, it is plain that in order to increase its accuracy we must introduce more base lines, or increase the number rather than their length. The transfer of the comparatively short length of a base to the greater length of a s'1de of the triangulation is generally effected by several steps so as to avoid too acute augles, and consequently loss of accuracy. The figure of the base net connecting the base with the triangulation is therefore one of importance, and, ideally, may be described as a series of quadrilaterals with diagonals intersecting at right angles, the length of these diagonals increasing ordinarily in a ratio of 1 to 2 or 3, thus requiring
"Sec Annual Report United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for 1876, Appendix No. 20.

REPOR1' FOR 1893-PART II.

275

several steps to ascend to the length of a main line. Ordi11arily two or three may suffice. No precise rule for deciding a priori ou the length of a base can be given. .Any of the fractious one-tenth to one:sixth of the length of an a;erage side of the triangulation may be useful for an estimate, since the · actual length of base lines varies between, wi1le limits. For a triangulation of the first order of magnitude the length may b1i rn kilometres (9·3 statute miles) or slightly more; for a third order triangulation it may be 1 kilometre (O·G statute miles) or even less. Base lines between 5 and 8 kilometres (say 4 to 5 statute miles) in length are the most common. They should be measured at least twice, once with rising and once with falling temperature-a very important condition, only to be omitted when a "bar in ice" apparatus is used. For subdivisions of a base distances of 0·5 to 1 kilometre are suitable. These are needed for furnishing the data for that part of the probable error of a base which depends on the mea&urement alone. The more accurate the angular measures in a chain of triangulation the greater may be the distance apart of its base lines. This distance varies accordingly between wide limits, but ordinarily may be from ~Oto 40 times (or more) the combined length of the bases. ~evertheless there may be conditions in the orograpliy of the country which constrain the location of baselines, as, for example, on the Pacific .Coast and through the region of the Sierra Nevada and the Rocky Mountains. ThuR, to avoid the unfavorable country between the Sacramento Valley and the Salt Lake region, a distance of about 550 miles, the triangulation has been expanded t-0 a great size and is supported by a long base in the former section. This is an instance where the Survey inaugurated a scheme of triangulation ou a scale larger than had ever been attempt~d elsewhere, and consequently there was no experience to guide or suggest the attainable accuracy in the triangulation and length and frequency of bases. Similar conditions constrained the location of a base in the Los .Angeles plains, and other like examples lnight be given. In a region where base-line sites can be more rearlily obtained the number of bases· will depend mainly on the degree of accuracy desired for the triangulation and to a less extent upon their length. (10) Accura<,'Y of a trimigulation.-I<'rom an economical standpoint we may coufine our inquiry to answering the question. What may be. considered s1~ffecicnt accuracy in the measures of the separate operations and in the results of a triangulation as a whole~ A base line can readily be measured with a probable error of 1/250 000 part of its length, and by application of superior apparatus, of several measures, and greater care-hence, at au increased cost-the
#Cf. Die Geodiitischen Hnuptpnnkte, etc., Von G. Zachnrine. Trnnslution by Dr. E. Lamp, Berlin, 1878, Art. 37. AlRo Jordan's Handbuch cler Vermessungskunde, Vol. III. Third edition, Stuttgardt, 1890.

276

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

probable uncertainty may be reduced to l/500 000 or less. Although this last fraction may be taken as a 1>ractical limit worth aiming at, extreme values of accuracy are recorded as having been reached, such as prol;lable errors of measure of 1/1000 000 or of a still smaller fraction. Now, to maintain au accuracy of, say, 1/150 000 or even 1/100 000 part ~f the length, on the average, in an extended triangulation, is a matter of difficulty, as is manifested whenever we compare the length of a junction line derived from two independent chains of triangles. '£he excess of accuracy tof a base is lost partly in the base figure, and is further rapid~y dissipated in the adjacent triangles; hence the inexpediency of straining at an extravagant degree of accuracy in the measure of a base becomes evident.· ·what is really important is a knowledge of the true length of the measuring apparatus in terms of the unit of length (on.this survey, the international metre). Respecting primary triangulation employing superior theodolites (40 to 50 centimetres diameter) the probable error of a single measure of a direction-i. e., the mean of two pointings on the heliotrope, telescope direct and rtwersed, with readings of three microscopes on two grnduation marks each-has been found to be± 0·64" (with variations between 0·45" and 0·90"), derived from 22 stations in CalifOl'nia and Nevada. At these same i>tation8 the average number of series or measures of a direction was 63 and the resulting probable error of a direction as shown by the .~tation <t1(iu11tments is ::I: 0·08" (with variations l>etween 0·06" nnd 0·10"). Beuce, mean error of an observed ang-ln(~) 0"·0S v'!I = ± 0"·17,

*See Appendix No. !J, lJnited States Coast ancl Geouetic Survt1y Report for 1885. tRespectiJJg the tinrn devotecl to the observations, General 'Valker, of the Great Trigonometriral Survey of India, rcmarkR (Yol. II, p. 70): "Any neglect of these precautions, i~ny hurrying over the prcRcrihetl tale of observations with tho utmost possible rapidity, e\'cll at tho time when tho signals nre apparently very stondy and favorable, is liable to introduce larger errors than those which are partly attributable to any defect in tho instruments of thi8 survey.'' lt.iH als·o remarked that it is con· sidered a great misfortune to use instrumentR of inferior or<lor.

-------------

and we may expect the triangles to close within O·l'i v'J or ±0"·29 on the average; but we find the mean closing error (7:3 cases), as demanded by the triangles composing the figure, to be ± 0"·61, which shows the presence of other ad verse intluenees than those arising from the graduation and pointi11g errors. The most potent of these is the lateral refraction, t'!omposed of' a constant and a variable part. Large local deflections of the vertical at a station also have their influence. '.raking our figures as typical, we conclude that a less number of series would suffice, provided the same variety of weather is experienced, without detriment to the work.t Suppose the number reduced to 31 (a prime number), the resulti11g- probable error of a direction would rise to± 0"·12, the mea.n error of an angle to 0"·25, and the expectation for closing of triangles would rise to cl- 0"·43. 'rhis would probably leave the large scale work of tht1 Suney still in the front rank for accuracy.

REPORT· FOR ·1893-PART II.

277

'l'he mean error of an angle as derived from adjusted triangulation is frequently used as a convenient measure of the relBttive accuracy of different triangulations. For the above case we have

in= v3 -'° - = -l- - 0"·35
Taking as a second tYPe of triangulation part of the transcontinen,tal triangulation east of the Uocky Mountains, with sides averaging 25 kilometres (about 15~ miles) in length west of the Mississippi and 29 kilometres (about 18 miles) east of it, we eau form the following table:

·(.il

,,

Central Kansas St. Louis to eastern Kansas St. Louis to Indiana Indiana Western Ohio to Chesapeake Bay

200 595 177 235 864

km. (about 124 miles), from 43 triangles, m=±o·76 " 370 " 137 " " ± 0·78 " 110 33 " ±0·66 " 146 24 " ±0·70 " 537 " 451 angles, " ±0·97

The following table is added for comparison with foreign triangula· tions. In work of this character instrument circles of 25 to 35om (diameter) are suitable. The number of positions should not exceed 17, and the number of series may be about one-half to two-thirds the number recom·. mended for primary work, according to its importance. Special attention should be paid to the centering of the instrument and of the heliotropes and to phases of signals.

Chains of triang11Zatio11

in Europe, India, and Africa.
Instruments.

~

-.J

00
Xame of country.

i ,
j

I

Epoch

·

Lei:igth of sides. Maker.

I
[ Diam. of circ. !\lier. or '°er.

No. of 6s.

m=-1,,' Jn

-------1
Austria-Hungary Bavaria and Palatinate

km.

·

cm.

·---'

/1

185o-88 18o4-53 185I-73 I8I7-70 186o-84 I792-188o I787-1865 ? 1863-90

I2 to 6o IO " 40

. Starke, Reichenbach I
Borda, Reichenbach, Ertel Gambey, Breaulieu Ertel, Reichenbach Pistor, Ertel, Repsold Gambey & Brunner Ramsden, Troughton & Simms Starke & Kammerer

I ,{

I
I

Belgium Denmark

IO" 30 IO " 40

I { ;
I
?

j~:~ 2I ·5
j~:~
28 37 32 46 26 32 32 27 27

27·0 . 32 5

'

~6'

674 132 219 87
2

0·9Io I ·778 0·892 0·742

I i I I

~
[IJ

i{
'{ '
?

I
,
I

I

,

~
§
0 t:t t:1
Q

0

\ Spain France and Algiers Great Britain Greece

15 " 130
IO "
10 "

120 85 40
65
1

{

. 8I and 6I

vn:. 5 mur.
3
2

micr. " "

}

325

!
I
1

0·886 1·29 1.83

10"

"
"

914 } 552

1\

'~(best o·27)

~
~

J

Italy

IO "

"""'· Roi<h··"'oh, G·mh<y, S<><k< {

2
2

2

"

"

i
J
J

I
.

I09

0·77 0·920

2

Norway Portugal Prussia A
B

I853-63 1864-88 1847-77 I832-9I 1855-86

IO "
IO "

So

Reichenbach, Olsen, Repsold, Ertel

,{ \{

~~ 19
~~

}
2

" ver.

514

I79
micr.

I

0·718 1·29 0·734 0·554 1·736

40 I Troughton, Repsold 50 I Pistor, Pistor & Martins
501-----do __________________________

IO " IO
11

i{
\{

[{

35 '6 } I9'6 27 } 27 32·5 } 32·5

~

rJl

139 I 79 690 36

}

Roumania

8 " 25 \ Starke, Reichenbach

Russia Saxony Sweden Switzerland India

I8r6-86 I867-78 I81cr&> 1854-68 1860-So

IO " 25 Brauer, Troughton, Ertel 10 .. 25 _____ Repsold do ______________________ , ___ IO " 45

2I to 37 3I 32 24 Reichenbach, Ertel '. { IO " 32 40 I 21 I 81 61 15 " 40 I Troughton&Simrns, Barrow, Waugh !{ ! 46

I

Stark~,

}

2 micr. 2 "

----

147 197 3°4
?

I
I
I

I ·495 0·350 I·og 0·856 1.003

5 micr.

s "
3 "

·-----------'------~--'··---------------------_;_

!

__

I}
I

l,417 \

I
§
1-zj

~

~

~

~
8
~

.....

.....

-:i

!....:>
~

280

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Any triangulatio11 in which 1n does not exceed l'" may generally be classed as being of a high order of accuracy, and, according to circumstances, double that amount may still be taken !1S of sufficient accuracy for the purpose for which the triangulation was made. In linear measure an accuracy of l/;j0 000 or 1/7.5 000 part of the length is ordinarily considered a satisfactory one,* and 1/30 000 may be sufficient in many cases. If by reason of great distance from the base the accura-0y in a triangulation should have been reduced below the standard originally set, the introduction of a new base at the weakest point, or near it, would be the proper remedy. Te.rtiary triangulation demands no high degree of accuracy, aud may vary from 1/20 000 to 1/5 000 part of the length, according t-0 requirements. \Vhen dealing with mean or probable errors the following rough-and. ready rule to judge of the admissibility of apparently large individual deviatious from the mean value may often be fouud of service, viz: With the usual very limited number of observations, auy that may be outside the total range of 5 times the mean error or 7 times the probable error should be looked upon with suspicion, and~ conversely, the mean and probable errors may be guessed at to be about oue-fifth and one-seventh of the observed range, respectively. (11) Interstate and international boundaries.-Apart from the astronomical measures that may be needed, the most accurate method of locating boundary lines, a)l(l the one that best preserves the monuments, is triangulation, because all the prominent natura.1 features and many of the artificial one!:! may be connected with the boundary marks as objects of reference. When, in addition to the triaugulatioti., the topography is also carefully executed, the labor of replacing lost marks in their proper position is reduced to a minimum. This necessarily presumes that the triangulation points have been well marked. The expense of triangulating a boundary and the length of time required to execute it has in the past generally precluded the adoption of this method in the "Guited States. The purpose of tllis paper is rather to treat of the best practical method of running boundary lines than to make a historical review of boundaries that have been already run and a minute examination of the details of their survey. In all boundary work due regard must be paid to the legal definition of the line, whether it is to depend on astronomical measures alone or on geodetic measures when the ends or termini are to be connected by a straight line (the geodetic or shortest line), and, in the case of an arc of a parallel, whether it is to be a mean parallel or au astronomical parallel. In lines depending upon astronomical observations the local deflection of the vertical enters as a disturbiug element. This is due either to
----- -·--···--·
---------·

·------------··---------

*One sixty-three t4ouso.udth11 corre11pouds to 1 inch in o. mile, neurly.

REPORT FOR· 1898-P.ART II.

281

mountain masses, proximity to the ocean, or irregularity in density of the matter beneath the surface of the earth. It m&y amount to a few seconds, and in extreme cases to very much more. On the survey of the ~ orthern Boundary west of the Lake of the Woods, on which 41 latitudes were observed in a distance of 1374 kilometres (853·5 miles), the average local deflection or difference from the mean parallel. was 2·15". The observing error for geographical positions is generally far within this quantity. At 5u stations observed on the oblique arc afong the Atlantic coast the average difforence between the geodetic and astronomical latitudes was 2·2", which is almost wholly due to station deflection. The so-called regular boundaries may be divided into several kinds: (1) Boundaries along a meridian; (2) boundaries along a parallel; (3) boundaries along oblique lines. Even a circular boundary has been traced. There are others of an irregular nature, that follow natural topograpic features, such a8 streams, mountain summits, divides, or crest lines. These latter do not come within our scope for treatment, as they depend on ordinary trigonometric and topographic methods of surveying. Boundaries along a meridian.-These are the simplest forms and present the least difficulties when the observer is provided with the proper instrumental outfit. It is necessary to determine the true meridian and trace it out, preferably by back and fore sights. As often as may be found necessary check azimuths should be observed. 'l'he frequency of these checks will depend 011 the character of the country. If the line is to be carried over a plain, where the sights are short, an astronomic check should be secured every 25 to :JO kilometres (15or19 miles), but if the country is rolling or mountainous, affording Bights from 5 to 30 kilometres (3 to 19 miles) in length, from 60 to 100 kilometres (37 to 62 miles) may be run before checking. The party should be provided with a 20 to 25° 111 (8or10 inch) theodolite, with a diaphragm arranged for observing time as well as for measuring angles, and a sidereal chronometer. Azimutlls may be determined in the usual way by observing Polaris at any hour angle in connection with a terrestrial mark. Three sets of observations on one night will generally give the desired accuracy. The meridian may be laid oft' on the horizontal Jimb of tlle theodolite, a signal put in line, and the angle then accurately measured by repetitions. If there should be an error worth correcting, the signal may be moved to its proper place, knowing the distance and angular deviation. Thia instrument should be used for measuring angles and azimuths, ranging out the line, and interpolating points on intermediate prominences. There should also be a 10or15cw (4 or 6 inch) theodolite, with a 'Vertical circle, having on the diaphragm parallel lines or threads for reading telemeters at road and stream crossings. In running· a meridian boundary line, where long distances may be

282

U. S. COAST AND

GJ<~ODETIC

SURVEY.

obtainable, say 30 to 100 kilometres (HI to 62 miles) or eveu more, it is suggested that the meridian instrument affords a good meaus for projectiug the line. not only to the distant stations, but to such iutermediate stations as are visible. The position of the instrument, in its relation to the meridian, is to be determined by the observation of time and azimuth stars. For the topographic work we measure distances either by a small triangulation or telemeter or tape line. The error of telemeter lines, as shown by the Northeru Boundary Survey, is given as 1/300 of the lengtll for the average of an entire seasou; but on selected days, with great care, this may be reduced to 1/1500. General Comstock states that on ordinary grouud 1/700 may be secured. In 18U3, on the Mexican Boundary Survey, in a line of 57·3 kilometres, 1/1 400 was reaclied; in a line of 73 kilometres the discrepancy was 1/1900 of the true length. l<'or short sights, slender range poles, and for long distances-from 5 to 30 kilometres (3 to 19 miles) or inore-pocket heliotropes may be used. To illustrate the accuracy with which a meridian may be run it may be stated that in 1883, while runni.ng the boundary between West Virginia and Pennsylvania, the meridian was checked by an azimuth after ranging out 18 kilometres (11 miles) aud the line was found to be apparently in error 2"·5 (21 cm). Beyond this point a series of long sights were obtained, and the uext check azimuth was observed after running 71 kilometres (44 miles) more, when the line was found to be apparently 2"·4 (8cm) in error and in the other direction. Both of these errors were inappreciable and no correct.ions were made, as the theodolite was only graduated to 5 11 · Some portion of the error may have been due to local deflection. Of course any error in the line should be distributed proportionately. Boundaries along a paraUel of latitude.-These may be run either by chords or by tangents. The latter method is preferable on account of its greater adaptability to topographic features; the former is more simple, especially when the adjacent astronomical stations are intervisible. It is necessary to determine the meridian and fay off a tangent in the prime vertical at the point where the azimuth and latitude are observed. Before attempting to run tbe parallel astronomical latitude stations should be located approximately at distances 15 to 30 kilometres apart. Distances from the latitude stations are to be laid off along thi15 tangent from which the ordinates to the parallel are measured. If the topographic features permit, regular distances should be determined along the tangent and offsets made at the proper angle from the tangent, so that they may be eitlier normal to the small circle of latitude or normal to the tangent. The Coast and Geodetic Survey formula~ for geographical positions will be found very useful in computing the azimuthi:; and offset.s for known distances, which distances may be irregular if necessary, and generally they are so in a broken country.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

283

.A.n azimuth may be observed at the end of the tangent to determine any error in ranging it out, and this and the correction due to difference of local deflection at the two stations are to be distributed along the offsets. If the aiJtronom-ical parallel should be laid out, it would be an' irregular curve in consequence of local deflections, but it would have the

f
I

I~

· ·

·

~

"'~\
.

~

1. l"tI

·

·

....

~

F10. 1.

advantage of lJCing more readily reproduced than the mean parallel if it should become necessary to restore the boundary marks. The latter may be traced ont by means of triangulation. Figures l aud 2 illustrate the method of procedure.

Fm. 2.-:Method of traciug n parullcl of lutitullo, ahowiui.: tangonta, offsetH. through onch Bl!trouomionl station.

'.l'hcorotio curve drnwn

The tangents and offsets may be corrected for error of ranging out after checking them by the regular azimuth observed at" each astronomical station. Boundaries along an oblique Une.-These are, like the other regular boundaries, referred to the meridian. If the latitude and longitude of the termini are known, the azimuth or direction of the line may be com-

284

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

puted, and then by means of azimuth observations the angle can be laid off aud the line tra,ced out. Auy error in running- the line is to be distributed p1·oportionately. An example of ol>lique boundary is that run in 1874 by Professor Bowser between New' Jersey and New York with a Coast and Geodetic Survey 20° 111 theodolite. The Coast aud Geodetic Survey located the termini-one by triangulation, the other by astronomical measures. For tracing out the line and locating monuments at suitable intervals, so as to be rea<lily intervisible also at intersections of roads, streams, and crest li11es, two methods are available-one starting from the fixed initial station with a, given azimuth to reacll the opposite end and proceeding by .backward and forward sighting, the other by first connecting the end points by a triangulation and the insertion of the monuments in the places computed. By the fir('t metllod the error in the direction of tlle line when the oppm;ite end is reached must l>e evenly divided along the entire line. In mountainous countries this method of ranging can not dispense with occasio11al small triangnlat!on in order to get around an inaccessible height. On the other hand, the triaugulation method and.subsequent laying out of the points in li11e, may be more laboriom; and demand more time, but· admits of the. tracing out of a line not subject to any material extent to the local detlections of the vertical, which necessarily come in at all stations where a transit line is used. 'l'he preforence for one or the other method thus depends on circumstaucm;. In countries ditlicult 01' access and where land is of little value, and the expense of tracing a boundary throughout its entire length 'is disproportionate to the ad vantages to be gained, important poiuts may be located, and either co1111ectctl or not, according to the public demands. In Alaska this method is being used. Instrumental outjit.-For the measurement of horiz:ontal angles two kinds of instruments are in use, the repeating instrument and the direction instrument. Theoretically the former should give the better results, but experie11ce has shown that with the improved methods of graduation now in use the reverse is true. It may be stated in general that when the graduation is good and the optical conditions commensurate, the method of directions should be used; with poor graduation, repetitions will give the better results. Thus in the large instruments used in the primary or large· scale triangulation great refinement is demanded in the gra<luation of the circle; and a direction instrument should therefore l>e preferred, though a, repeating instrument may be allowable and has been found under some circumstances to give equally good results. In secondary and tertiary triangulation the repeating instrument will usually give satisfactory results, with the great advantage that it admits of rapid work both in the field all(). iu the office. For the more refined work of the primary triangulation the instrument should have a 40 to q0° 01 (16 to 20 inch) circle, graduated too', reading by three micrometer microscopes to 1" each and by estimation to 0"·1.

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

285

The telescope should ha;ve an objective of the best class, of 7·5 to
g.5cm (3 to 3! inches) diameter, three eyepieces ranging- in power from

40 to 100; also two very light vertical circles or finders for azimuth stars and an ocular micrometer for special or occasional use. The latter may be used for azimuth work as well as micrometric angular measures when the part of the day suitable for favorable operatious is very short and when the atmospheric conditions are adverse. The instrnment should have slides to provide for radial illmninatiou of circle by a right. angled prism. The instrument should be mouuted ou a position circle cemented to the top of a pier whenever practicable. As the observations for azimuth should, if possible, have the same degree of precision as those for horizontal directions, the telescope should have sufficient optical power to observe stars of 6·5 magnitude. In order to secure images of uniform size at all distances it is necessary to vary the size of the heliotrope accordiug to the distaijce to be observed. For ordinary atmospl1eric conditions and for distances of 10 miles and over the formula x = ·046d may Le u;;ed for this purpose, where xis the side of the square mirror in inches and dis the distance to be observed in miles, or x = flk, where :r is the result in millimetres and le the distance in kilometres. The following table contains the length of sid(~ of square mirror for various distances:

i·~i~:n:~.-1 -Si·lc~T!-~:~ce.1- ~;~~. --1,-~;:t:n-c~:-!-~;~:--

--~~~~: -~,~~i~-!! Ai~--1 ~,~·ts.- -~~~s.- J~~;es·
,

20 30 40

50

0·92 1'37 1·83 2·3

70 80 90
100

i
I

3 ·2 3·7 4·1 4·6

140 160 180
200

6·4 7'3 8·3
9·2

Heforring to the theodolite, the effect of an outstanding error (c) in collimation on the measure of a horizontal direction may in general be kept small, thus: Supposing c = 10" and the angle of elevation of the object less than 3°, this effect is but 0"·01 at mm1t, and it is the same for the case of c = l' and the elevation less than 1°. The effect of an error (i) in the horizontality of the revolving axis of the telescope is in general much larger, as it depends on the tangent of the angle (a) of elevation, thus for i = 10" and tx = 10 it amounts to 0"·2, and with a = 2° it is 0"·4. Both defects are eliminated in the measures by the reversal of the telescope aud azimuth circle. The effect of an error (1') in the verticality of the theodolite axis can not be eliminated by any method of observing. The amount for any angle depm1ds on ·1· and the relation of the angle to the plane which contains the true and instrumental l'\euith point. With repeating

286

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

theodolites we have to deal with two vertical axes which should coincide. Close attention to this last source of error must be given by careful leveling. The effect of the eccentricity of a circle is eliminated by the reading of auy number of equidi.~tant microscopes. The examination of the graduation of a circle for periodic a11d irregular errors should he made at the office. All heliotropes should l>e centered over their respective stations with the same care as ti.to theodolite; and when poles, targets, or cones are used, the data needed for correcting for phase where required should be given (size and shape of object and local time or else the azimuth of sun). If plain pofos are used, their diameter should be graduated for the distance; i.e., it should be smaller the shorter the distance from the station. It should also be stated whether the object was seen by reflecied or diffused solar light. (14) Jlfethod of observation.-In order to secure the best results with either form of instrument the observer should make the observations at different times of the day, say a. m. and p. m., and on different dayi:1 and under varying- conditions of atmosphere, but rather exceptionally during day and night, and lie should refrain from observing· under any manifestly unsuitable or doubtful conditions. In no case in primary and secondary triangulations should the observations be finished in one day; but several days, embracing morning and afternoon observations, should be devoted to them, in order to avoid cases of lateral refraction, which have occasionally been experienced to the extent of many seconds.· In mounting the instrument regard should be had to proper shelter for it as well as for personal comfort while observing. Pointiugs should be made as rapidly as possible consistent with a clear and decided bisection of the signal. In using a direction instrument the method. usually adopted is to divide the circle into a number of equal parts, known as positions. This number should be prime,t so that no microscope may fall upon the same graduation in measuring upon the same OQject in different positions or after reversal of the circle. Having m;tablished an initial (lirection, one or more series are observed in each position, each series consisting of a pointing and reading upon each of the signals in the order of the graduation, and then, after reversing the telescope aud turning the alidade 1800 in azimuth, of another pointing a11d reading· upon the signals in the
"Tho obRcrvations for lateral rnfrnction made hy Dr. Fr. Pfaff with a theodolite mounted in the tower of hiH houRe, and extending throughout n whole year (Publikation des Kilnig. Preuas, Geodntischen Institutes), may hero bo referred to as evidence of tho existence of this disturbing feature iu the meaHure of horizontal directions. Yet for future special observation two or more fixed telescopes, cemented to a low stone piec and provi<lod with eyepiece micromotera, would prove more effective und loss trouhlesomo than Dr. Pfaffs' arrangement. Tho lllteral variation of more than one clirecti?n at a station could bo thus investigated. t Any other number that will accomplish tho same purpose ma~' bo used.

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

287

reverse· order. The number of positions to be used depends upon the accuracy of the graduation and upon the degree of refinement desired in the results. Experience tends to show that with the best instruments now in use ou the primary triangulation the effect of atmospheric conditions upon the result, after a certain number of positions have been used, is much greater than the effect due to errors in graduation. It is probable that 31 series are needed to secure the desired accuracy, and about> this nnmber should be obtained. It should be left tO the judgment of the observer, taking into account the charaQter of the work and of the instrument used, to decide in how many positions of the instrument these observations shall be made. In the past, 23 positions have been the maximum number used. There is no objection to decreasing this number, or increasing it to the · full number of series desired. It has also been suggested to take a very small number of positions and exhaust the circle, and to repeat the same number of positions, but with a diflerent initial reading of the graduation and subdividing the former spaces. A third and fourth group of such readings can be added if greater accuracy should be demanded. The advantage claimed for this procedure is the easy comparability of the results of the series making up a group. In high mountain regions in certain cases it has been found that midday observations of horizontal directions are obtainable with the aid of the ocular micrometer. This has only been used in primary work and should be restrieted to special cases. vVhen a repeating instrument is used each set of repetitions should consist of a certain number of measures of the angle (a), say 3, followed by an equal number of measures with telescope reversed; then the explement of the angle (360-a) should be immediately measured in the same manner. Two sets of 6 repetitions (3 D+3 R) are preferable to one set of 12 repetitions (6 D+6 R), as something may occur to interrupt the observations during the longer time required for the latter, thus vitiating the whole set. Enough sets should be taken to obtain the desired accuracy, from 2 to 6 probably being sufficient in most cases, according· to the precision required by the character of the triangulation. In regard to the number of angles to be measured at a station, it may be · stated in general that there should be a check on every angle measured besides that of closing the horizon in the manner referred to above. Although for the highest degree of accuracy all of the sum angles might be measured, this should rarely be done, especially when the number of signals is large, as the increase in the accuracy of the result is not com1nen.surate with the increased time and labor spent. It 1s preferable to measure only those angles which actually occur in the figure of the triangulation, and this consideration should have some '\':eight in selecting
"This is to correct for nny azunuthnl change or twist during observations in the scaffold or supporting structure.

------------·--------·-·-------·--------·- -----·----·-----·--·-----

288

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVI<:Y.

those sum angles which are to be used as checks and which will, as nearly as may be, equalize the number ofpointings. Lost motion and stress in a repeating theo<lolite.-The repeating circles in use on the Survey, in common with all theodolites of their date, are lacking in rigidity, and flexure is probably a fertile source of error, the effects of which, together with the lost motion in the numerous movable parts and particularly in the clamping arrangement, can only be eliminated by careful manipulation and the adoption of a method of observing which will make them always of the same sign. In practice it is found that by making all movements in one direction the error of closure obtaiued by measuring au angle and its explernent will, within the probable errors of pointing and reading, remain constant for auy particular condition of the instrument irrespective of the size of' the angle; and since the angles measured according· to this practice and obtained under conditions which give closing errors of wide i:ange, when corrected by half the closing error, show a very close accord, it seems probable that the method largely eliminates errors from these sources. For use· upon towers, scaffolds, and like supports which are subject to an azimuthal movement, caused by the diurnal motion of the suu, the repeating theodolite is especially adapted, since the short time occupied in the measurement of a single angle reduces tire effect to a minimum and the method of procedure above referred to eliminates it. When the collimation is well a~justed it is not always necessary to reverse the telescope in the middle of a set unless there is a large difference, say one exceeding Io of elevation, between the o~jects observed upon. Tile error of collimation should be frequently tested, and corrected if perceptible. It is desirable to secure, in the end, an equal number of measures with telescope direct and with telescope reversed. lnstru.ments with eccentric telescopes must be used in both positions of the telescope. Respecting the m.auner of measuring and recording, whether with or against tee graduation of the circle, the former practice is supposed preferable; but in all cases the object first sighted or pointed on should be recorded first in order. Thus in measuring the augle, A to B indicates motion direct as understood by the observer, butB to A indicates motion reversed, and the entry should be made accordingly. The observer should indicate in the preface of his record book the direction in which bis instrume11t is graduated, and also give a diagram showing the directions to the stations seen. Outside oldects to be determined.-llesides the regular triangulation marks visible at a station, directions or angles should be carefully measured whenever practicable on all objects, as light-houses, beacons, buoys, and other aids to navigation, on all international, State, and county boundary monuments, township and section corners of the United States Land Survey, State capitols an<l court-house domes or

REPORT FOH. 1893-PART II.

289

'!npolns, church steeples and all prominent lmilrlings, and all outlying rocks, slwals, or breakers. A round of angles shoulll also he taken on all prominent pea.ks anrl other landmarks, and tangents should be taken to all the headlands along the coast. 'l'he observations for the magnetic rlecliuation to be marle at each station are referred to in the i·e1)ort of the Committee on Terrestrial J\Iagnetism. (li>) Si,r1nrtl.s and sca;fJ'olds.-The term "signal," as ns· d in the Coast and Geodetic Survey in connection wifo triangnlation, includes all devices, appliances, H!l(l instrnmcnts employed as ohjects to designate to the ob;;erver the position of a station mark to be pointe1l upon by him, an<l inclndes all strnctnres intended to elevate such objects or the instrument;; employe<l in observing. Although t.he term "signal," as here used, properly relat.es only to strnctures or rlevice8 especially coustructcd, observers have at one time or another used almost every cla"'s of object of sullicie11t prominence to be identified from distant points, :-mch as 11umntt1in peaks, liilltop1:1, liearllands, rocks, trees, caims or pyramids constructed of vario1rn materials, poles or staffs, flags, lozenges, target.s of variou '3 forms, cones of tin, globes of ghtss, ete., heliotropes, revolving or fixed, bonfires, rockets, blue lights, lamps of varion8 fol'll1s, lamps in co111bi11atio11 with reflectors, mag11esi11111 :t111l e!Pctric lights; anrl for supporting their i11strument:-;, rnomuls of earth, trunks of trees i11 origi11al position, chimneys :tll(l light-houses, cltnrch towers, ete., t.ripods and scaifolds, towers of stone, adobe, etc. Sometimes high structures are 11ee<le<l in order t.o maintaiu the general proportions of the; tria11gnlation or for the purpose of overcoming an obstruction iu the line of sight, hnt ordinarily the supports :ire of moderate height, only a;; a meanR of carrying the line of sight abovo th~ higl1ly disturhed stratum of air near the surface of tho gron11d. Wltere the difference iu expense is not too considerable, lines iu n, wooded country should be (:arrierl above the tops of the forests ratlter than through long, openerl Janes. 'l'he question of the <lesirahility of portable or permanent structures, being very largely g'O\'er11ed by the comparative cost of material and transportation, is in go11cral not difficnlt to soJye. At all high stmctnres the instrurncmt rests on a ce11tral tripod of stro11g a1Hl well-braced timbers and is m1tirely separated from tho surrounding light scaffol1l which supports the observer and serves, when boarded in or wrapped with canvas, as :t protection to tlie imitrumeut a.gahist wiud or suu. The very detailed article upon "Construction of obRerving tripods .and s1·.uffoids,"· as pnblished by tho Survey, makes it u1111ecessary to go into the su~ject here.
----··---· Appcudix No. 10, Unitctl States Coast a11tl Geullotio Hopnrt for 1882,
S. Ex, 19, pt. 2-19

290

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

'l'he visibility of o~jects sig'1ted <lepen<ls upon the brightness of t.he light, as heliotropes or artWcial ligllts, or it depends npou contrast of the target, illuminated l>y ordinary clay light, with the background upon whieh it projects. The size of the retlectiug ~mrfacc in the use of heliotropes should be gratluated to the distauce from the station, for which sec the scale proposed in another part of this paper. In the ca8e of targets or lozenges of varion8 materials the relation of surface to distance will generally have to be determined l.Jy experiment. In the Coast mul Ueodetic Survey 111a11nal 011 triangulation the augular limit desirable for a signal has l>cen :-;tated as 1"; but as it is not practieal.Jle to u;aintain this limit at long distances, it will in practice be found necm;sary to increase the witlth sullicie11tly to preserve the area i u some measure. In the <·ase of lozenge-shaped targets the retlecti11g ::;nrface may be i11creas_ed fo any desired extent by mnltiplyiug their number. Lozenge-shaped targets of muslin have l>een found very satisfactory. 'l'he diagonals should be twice the linear value of 1"·5 for the distances. For lines of about 6.'i kilometres (40 miles) three or four lozenges, l>oth black and white, symmetrically disposed along tl1e pole, have proved satisfactory in all kinds of seeing and for different positions of the suu. Signals,, such as rom1de<l poles, which prescut to the ol>:-;crver two or more planes of varying relative distinctness are objectio11able l.Jecauo,;e they require phase corrcctiou, aud should not be employed on work demanding a ltigli degree of accuracy. It may be well to call atteutiou to the economy of the use of the heliotrope i11 co11seqncuce of its greater capacity for peuetration of smoky or hazy atmosphere than conl<l be had by a signal illuminated only l>y ordi11ary daylight. The heliotrnpc lights frequently enable the observations to be carri.cd 011 when otl1er sig11als would fail, and consequently t11ey affor<l an opportunity to utilize the varying conditions of the atmosphere to a greater extent than is go1wrally the case. 'l'liis remark applies to relatively short lines; for Jong ones the heliotrope becomes iIHlispensable. The fact that all those who have made extensive experiments with night signals have reported farnrably upon them t:iltonld lead to their use whenever it is deemed a<lvautageous. 011 lines of 50 kilometres and less they furnish l.Jeautifni steady ol1jccts for a greater uumber of 110nrs, particularly before 111i<l11ight, than <lay signals. Colonel Perrier, after bis careful <liscussio11 or t.he results from uigltt awl day observations presente<l to the lllternational Confcreuce (licport of .l8fll), states as his conclusionTl.tat the results of night ohson·ationH s:itiRf~· Lotter tho geomotrical conditions to which all triangulations aro HnhJcct., or, in 0U.1m· wonls, that tho errors, whether <lne to obsorn1tio11 or to latoral refraction, whieh latter haR Jte\'cr ~·et been well <1oterminctl, compe11s1.to each other bcttot· in night uLHorvationH than in thoso ma<lo in dayt.imo.

In this connection atte11tion is called to the extremely interesting experiments made.l.Jy the l::lurvey at Pioclle, in Nevada, in 188:i, and at

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

291

Monnt. ~Pbo, Utah, in 188i, to test the ;wa.ilability of the moon's ligltt for night signals. 'l'he selenotropc, as the instrument mw1l has hC>en called, differs from the heliotrope only in the g-reat.m· size of' the mirror usml, arnl is operated i11 exactly the same wa.y. At Pioche, in 1883, a rnirror J:.l·7.c 111 square (;"i hy r; inches) was use1l Oil a line ;),; kilometers (:.l:.l miles) in length, giving very satisfactory results with the moon. ln 188i, while 01~cupying l\101111t Nebo, in Utah, wit.Ji the Yiew of testing the efliciencJ· of the seleuotrope upon much longer lines, mi1To1·s rn x '.!O"'" (Ii by 8 i11cl1cs), :.lO x 2;1''" (1' by 10 inelrns), a1td :m x 4fr"" (12 by 18 iuelws) were sc1tt to Dm1icr, 011a1p1i, a1td Ogden, respectively77, 113, a111l 1i'.i(i kilometers (41', 70, and Ui miles) distaut-antl the heliotropers were i1tstructed to show two ltom·s each night from .Ju11e '..m to July 4, co111menci11g forty-live miuutes after :onnt>et, or as soou as the shadow on the vanes became distinct... The weather was unfavorable except on the !M a11d :M of.July, when Draper a!lll Onaquj were plai11ly vii,;ihle in the illuminated lield of the telesco1le, "distinct, steady, mere dots of white light aud of ideal )le1'fection for precise pointing." Ogde11, Jr;li kilometers (U7 miles) distant, for some reason was not seen. (lli) Jiarking <~/ Ntations.-'l'lie main objects in marking a station arn to secure its pcrmane11cy aud to render it easy of n·covery. If tlie station is located 011 a ledge or roek not likely to be disturbed, a copper bolt with a crnss on its top to mark. the eentei·, secured in a drill hole several inches 1lcep, or two or three short bolts placed ono over the other, so as to be more difficult; of extractiou, form a :m itable station mark. 'l'wo or three arrows pointing to the center mark may also be cut in tl1e rock. \Vhere excavation is possible,, the1·e t>hould be one mark at the surface aud another buried:~ feet below tho surface. li'or pri111ary 8tations a stone embedded in cemeut, with a copper bolt for center mark, forms the best subsurfaee mark. If an observing pier or terminal of a base li11e is used, it shonld be built of sto11e, brick, or con. crete, with a cross mark in the top allll also oue at the surface, and another below the grnund, to indicate the center of the station, and two openings should be left in tlie pier at the base, at right augles to eaelt other, to give access to the surface mark. In secondary a11d tertiary work a bottle, crock, or flowerpot filled with ashes may be used for a subsurface mark, with a stone and cross at the surface. Special couditious of soil require marks suited to their part i1:ula1· nee1ls. In all cases there should be suitable witness or refere11ce marks iu Hlldition to the central one, preferably grooves or drill holes (filled "·ith sulphur) in adjaceut rocks, to which the distauces aud bearings shoul1l be carefully noted. Experienee has shown that stations are fre1pie11tly lost by reason of the thoughtless me<ll!ling of ignorant aud frrespousible p1ws011s, as well as by solllo wlwsi; cupidity had beeu excited by the material used in

292

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

marking them, as, for instance, lead and copper in l1 country inhabited by Iudians. HeHcc a good general rule is that stations sl1ould be marked by objects haviug little or no value. And it is important that the atten· tion of t.he passer-by should not be attracted to the location of the station by reason of the,1womi11ence of the surface, reference, and witness marks. 'fhe aim should he to mark the spot in such a manner that there will be no ditliculty for one who has its description to find it; but a casual observer sl.wuld 11ot have his attention attracted to it. 'l'he description of a station should inclnde a topographical sketch of . the grournl and it.s approaches, a sketch sl1owing tl1e relative positions the station mark and various points of reference, the best route by which to reach it from the nearest town, and any information which might prove of value to a pal'ty subsecpiently occupying the station, either in fi11ding the station or i11 locating a camp or obtaining sup· plies. It is desirable that the uame of the trigonometric st~1tiou be a short one. (17) Incidenfrtl obsenJllfions.-In reply to the question, ''What other observations than those of' angular mcmrnrcs should be made by a triangulation party?" it 111ay be remarked that this includes the measure of vertical angles, uuless there goo1l rcaso11 why they should be omitted. In pri111i1.ry work it is undcr:-toocl that such observations for latitnde and a;-:imutl1 Rhoul<l be ma<lc as pertain to the general needs of a triangulation for astronomic data. No Hpecial rnlcs can be given, though frequently e\·cry other stat.ion has bPcn an ast.J"o110111ic station. It may oftm1 happen that a <lctachecl piece of tl'i:111gnlation is to be <lone; J11~re astronomic observations, at least at one station, are demanded. Ohservatfons for the approximate cleterminatio11 of the rnagnetic clccli11atio11 i,;houl1l he made at every station, For partieulars see Heport of Committee on :\Iag11etics. lH general 110 other meteorological observations than those req 111rcd for the description of the weatl1er in tbe daily report or what are clirectly dcman<le<l hy the work in hand need be made. Complete meteorological ob;ici·vations are essential in special experimental work respceti11g Jaws of dinl'llal variation of refract.ion or for comparative value of' measm·es of heights by barometer ancl otl1er means. These eases arc always covered hy instruct.ions. Hcgular barometric; observatio11s at stations of gTeat elevation are recommended, but are not obligatory nnlpss specified in iustructions. In all cases of doubt on the part of the observer he is advised to ask for special instrnctions. (18) Explanatory note to accompanv map sho11:ing stute of the tri<mgu· lation in the United Sta,tes i1t- January, 18.91.-'l'ho o~ject of the map (illustration No. 11) is to give at a glance tl1e present extent of' the triaugulation and to make some suggestions for its future prosecution. The map shows the work done by the Coast and Geodetic Survey, aud also areas which have been.either reconnoitered or which are in a state of incompleteness.

of

lie

Stale of' I.he Triangula.1.ion in Janua.ry 189~, compl.eted,com.rnenced ,or in. progress and prospecti.:ve.
U. S. Coast and Geodei.<.c Su~ Report ror 1893 _ J'b.rt 11

,---

...
N

..

To R.eporl

or Geodetic

Con.l' e r e n.ce - No . ll .

·· ..

~

...

"11
~

~

.--)··..\ . k~,'
GIULF ot·X
.,,.
Tf':.Men.denltal.L, S1q>e611t.cruhn.I. .

r; ('

~ . "i>

--- 1"
c1

Base Map of' the United States
(Projected on ont.erseeung cone)

('

I
I
.M· o11.o

mlll!ll .Area. lri.a.~U:U.ed.. ~ Area. reco i.tered, or friar<.f{'t.r
OllIIIIlJllJIJJ .Ar-ea, tria.ng_ d. by U.S.La.Jce Survey .or . . E'lfc.neers.
~ l.a.ti.on. in.co lele.

\

-

\

f:M@~ .Area. of'prospeclt~ n.gul.a.ti.o

....

--M 0

1893
St atule Miles

....

~

Kiiometre·
... -·

.... ii '

...

iii

iii

10i

...

_ _ C~~J_ ~
I
Phorn·Llth by A 110/'JN 4r C.:O .. 8 :11111 .. Md

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

293

The triangulations made by the United States J,ake Survey and the Unite1l States Mississippi and l\Iissouri Hiver Commissions are also shown. Otl11.'r sltaded areas are intended to show either proposed triangula· tioi1s or to Herve as suggestions for future consideration. They are not intended to mark ont exact positions. since they can only serve to illustrate the ge11eral idea co111.·emi11g the ma11ne1· in which the required. data for any co11teu1plat<id surveys of States or their boundaries may readily be supplied. Acconling to this view, all suclt surveys would depend on the standard ge0<lctic latitude, longitmlc·, and azimuth of the wlwle country, auu they would use the same spheroid of development, tlms securing n11ifor111ity and consiste1icy; and ill general no further astronomical observations or the measure of new base Jines would be required except for special Yerilication. CHAS. A. Scrro·1·1·, Chairman. R L. F Ams, SecretMy.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE D ON ASTRONOMY.
TIME AND LONGITUDE.

'l'lie subject of astronomy, a8 applied in tlie Coast arnl Geodetic Survey, rnay suitably bCI treated under the four heads ad.opted in the Manual Appe111lix No. l·i, United States Coast and Geodetic Snrvey Ul.'port for 1880, wl1ich gives very fully the methods emplo~'ed np ·to that date and leaves hut lit tie to be arl<led to bring it np to tho prc1-<e11t. Jn a cm·sory review of these snbjects it is almost impossible to sepa· rate them entirely, as in some re8pects kin<lred operations mu through all of them. Time is used for latitude, azimuth, magnetic~, gravity and longitude detcrrniuatious, whet.her the latter falls umler the head of ( 1) astronomic pheuomeua, such as eclipses, occultatious, etc., (!.!) tiushiug signals, (3) chronometric, or (J) telegraphic. Tho precision of' tho time re11nireu will indicate tho character of the instrument to be use<l, snch as the :-;extant, vertical ci1·cle, or transit in its various forn1s. The number of time .alJ(l circumpolar stars ill the American Ephemeris is not sufficient for field astronomy, and it is necessary to resort to the Berlin .Jahrbuch and other star catalognes to prevent otherwise unavoi<lable,delays. It is suggested that the four principal natio11s publishing· uautical almanacs combiue in the expense of preparing aud issuiug a special star list of greater extPnt than we now have, so that the number of time stars may ue increased to an average of one for each two minutes of time, ·and also that the American Epltl'meris sltoul<l extend the

294

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

"Additional Star Places" so as to cove1· tlie period now falling in day. lig·ltt; al>10 that more azimuth stars shonltl be added, a11d whe11ever practicable grouped hy differences of 11eal'ly twelve hours. The Rtar places should be given in order of right ascension. This· would also be useful for determining value of micrometer. Time and longitude are so intimately associated that the consideration of the latter necessarily involves the former. Beyond tile reach of the telegraph is the vast region of Alaska, which must have its longitudes determined where water transportation is available by chronometric expeditions, and far inland, beyond the mwigable streams,,by the observation of celestial phenomena. Works on astronomy give these methods in sufficient detail for practical use. Suilice it to say that the transportation of chronometers, when carefully conducted, gives satisfactory results within the limits expected. A thorough test of these chronometers should be ma1le before using them. This could he done advantageously by using the 11ew pendulum apparatus, employing an invariable pendulum, whose period is known, as a standard. A few examples, showing the probable errors of results, are given:

I .

·--~umbc~-1- - - - - ·
1

.

r·

1-·--- -··:-----·-···
!
' I856 I892 I855

I

\: ear.

'

I I

s tations. ·

I

1

T ·

nps.

c1 uo- vovaac. I ·rrors 1 of nomctcrs ' ~ '"' c ·

I Days inn

Probable

--1------1-- - - : - !

I
.1

Liverpool Cambridge Savannah Fernandina Sitka , Tacoma

I

6

1
1

52
IO

I2

!

o~~9

8
I2

8

6

'IO

The cable 1letermination between Greenwich :rnd Cambridge <lifferc1l from thl· chronometric result, in which l ,OGi> chronometers were used, by ahont 0·20·. · It is sng~·ested that the 1011git.udc of the different Aleutian islarnls mny be determined by tl.ashiug signals from one to the other and checking the end of a sub<liYision by chronometric expeditions. .M:ost of tl1l·se islands arc sufficiently close to each other for the use of this method.· As an'example of flashi11g signals, the probable error of the longitmle determination between Tetica, Spain, and M'Sabiba, Algiers, is p:iven as :::!.: -<n:~·. The most important method of modern times for determining longitude, and tl1c ollc most widely used, is tho comparison of the local times of different points by means of the electric telegraph. This method of lougitu<lc determination has been so systernatize1l and perfected in the last fift~cn years that hut little remains to be desired, a,Jl(l the slight modifications made from time to time during that period fiave been

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

295

chiefly in the direction of equipments. A further advaiice may be practicaule when the variable qnantit.y, known as personal eqnatio1~, can be elimiuateu hy .the photographic record of star transitH, which is yet in its experimental stage. 'fl.te telegraphic method of determining longitudes was devised and introduced by the Coast 8urvey. In 1878 the mode of operation was much 8implifietl; all(l in the same year was applied the present brief method of field computation, which enables Obl'>el'Ver to complete the duplicate record, involving tlle sheet reading and time computation, in tllree or four hours. 'rhese field computations ai·e of great assistance in the final office reduction. These recent longitudes were determinecl by observations on from six to ten nights, the observers interchanging stations after half the munlJer of nights were obtained, to eliminate personal equation. The local times were determined by observing the same stars whenever practicable at both stations each night, to eliminate errors of star place. Twenty stars were used each night. They were divided iuto two time sets of ten stars each, containing two azimuth and eight time stars, with reversal of the transit axis at the middle of each time set. Arbitrary signals were exchangell in both ·directions, to compare the chro- · uometers, as near as practicable, midway between the two time sets, using the telegraph circuit for that purpose for alJout three minntP!'<. The transmission and ai:mature times were thns eliminated. The results compare favorably with the European longitudes, where observations were sometimes made on from sixteen to twenty nights, usingthree similar groups of Rtars and two exch:1nges of signals each nig·ht. All of the foreign determinations were uot so elaborate, however. Many of recent date were determined just as ours are. Twenty-nine European liues (see table), the best that were available, determined between 1881 and 1889, in which the observers and sometimes the instrnments also were exchanged, show a11 average probable error of ± O·OO!)·. Fifty-three lines (sec tables) determined in the United.States between 1880 and l8!l2 give a probable mTor of ± ·009·. vYhe11 the beRt class of work is compared in both Eur<?pe and the United States the error of closing circuits is about the same (see table). It rarely exceeds 0·10·~ and in the m:~jority of cases is lower. There are a fe-iv cases of al.mormally large errors of closing in both countries that have not been fully explained. As a curious instance of a constant difference of results may be mentioned the double determination of the difference of longitude bet.ween Greenwich nn<l Paris in 1888 by two sets of observers, making really four determinations of' six nights ead1, which show a difference of 0·21·. 'l'he work was repeate<l in 189!.!, with a difference of 0·18·, or practically the same, bnt uo explauatiou has been gfren by the observers. From the comparison above made it is clear tlrnt our work possesses the requif;1te acc111·acy.

au

296

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
DifferenceB of longitude in E11rOJ1e.

l-----S-ta_t_i_o_n_·_·-----l~~~~~~.oJ Dl~~~i::;dc~f 11'~~~~~1~ 1--~:t~~---;
0

Paris-Milan Paris-Nice Paris-Leyden Bcrlin-Swinemundc Kiel-Swinemunde Konigsberg-Swinemumle Konigsberg-Var:;ovie lserlin-Varsov ic Berlin--Breslan Konigsberg-Breslan Konigsherg-Rugard Kiel-Rugard Kiel-Berlin Ranenherg-Bcrlin Konigsbcrg-Memel Konigsberg-Goldaperbcrg Bcrlin-Schneekop11c Brcslau-Schncekoppe Breslau-Trockenherg Brcslau-Schonsee Trockenberg-Schonsec Konigsberg-Schonsee Brcslan-Rosenthal Schonsee-Springbcrg Berl i n-Spri ngbcrg Stockholm-Goteborg LunJ-Goteborg Stockholm--Hcrmosand Haparnnda-Hermosand

8 ancl 7 and Sand 4 and 4 and

7 8 4 S

5

27 19 8 3 16 24 2 30 14 13 28 13 12 0 2 7 9 5 7 7 0 6 0 9 12 24 4 0 24

I I s. 24·954 ±·007 51 ·225- ! ·007 35·213 I ·016 28·9691 '01 I 28·203 ·013 55·166 '010 08·300 1 '01 I 32·477 I ·007 33 ·007 ·007 50·278 ·008 II ·819 ·009 11·592 ·009 59·241 ·010 06·393 ·005 24·22S ·008 11·147 ·006 23·084 ·007 10·803 ·010 21 ·694 ·008 26·812 ·011 05·190 ·008 23·441 ·012 00·039 ·007 07·583 'OIO s_3·113 ·p16 22·73 ·016 53·72 ·007 24 ·45 ·007 45·51 '010

I
I

:
1881 1884 1883 1884 1885 1886 1887 188!! 188'.)

I

I

1890 " 1885 1886 1888 1889

-------'-------'-------------- -- -

REPORT FOR 1893-·-PAR'f.1 II.
Dijfei·6'11ccs of longitude in tlw United Statea.
[?.lnny of these are taken from the field results.]

297

------·-·
Stations.

I :"<umber ofl Difference of Ion! ni~hts. I gitude.
5 and 5 3 and 3 4 and 5 4 ancl 4 4 and 4 3 and 4 4 and 3 5 and 5 5 and 4 5 ancl 4 5 ancl 5 4 and 4 4 and 4 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 ancl 5 5 ancl 5 4 and 5 4 and 4 6 and 5 4 and 4 5 ancl 5 5 and 5 5 ancl 5 '1and4 5 and 5 5 and 5 4 ancl 4 4 and 4 4 and 4 4 and 4 4 nncl J 4 and 4 4 and 4 3 and 3 5 and 5 5 and S 5 ancl 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 and S 5 and 5 5 nnd 5 5 and 5 5 and 5 5 nnd 5 5 nnd 5 5 and 5 0 08 5 29 9 J3 2 10 JO 9 40 4 8 14 28 0 42 0 I J7 25 I 15 2J 3 3 8 0 12
~

Prohablc !
crn~r.
J

Cape May-V11"ashington, D. C. Str;isburg-Washington. n. C. Cincinnati-Washington, D. C. Cincinnati-:N ash ville St. Louis-Nashville Vincennes-Kashville Vincennes-St. Louis Little Rock-Galveston Little Rock-Kamas City Colorado Springs-Kansas City Colorado Springs-Santa Fe Colorado Springs-Gunnison Colorado Springs-Grand Junction Colorado Springs-Salt Lake City Ogden-Salt Lake City San Francisco-Salt Lake City San Francisco-\Vashington, Lafayette Park San Francisco-Portland Wallawalla-l'ortland Wallawalla-Salt Lake City \Vnllawalla-l'ort Townsend Wallawallu-Seattle Helena-Spokane Falls San Franci;co-Mount Hamilton San Francisco-Sacramento San Francisco-Point Arena Sacramento-Point Arena Sacramento-Marysville Sacramento-Los Angeles San Francisco-Los Angeles Needles-Los .Angeles Sacramento-Verdi Carson City-Verdi Carson City-Virginia City Carson City-Genoa Carson City-Austin Eureka-Austin Eureka-Salt Lake-City Washington-Altoona Salt Lake-Helena Bismarck-I Ielena Bismarck-Minneapolis Albany-Cape May Albany-Detroit Chicago-Detroit Chicago-Minneapolis Omaha-Minneapolis San Diego-Los Angeles San Diego-Yuma Los Angeles-Yuma Nogales-Yuma N ogalcs - El Paso Helenn-Yellowstone Lake

1------' --------- - - - - ' I s. s. h. 111. I
29·072 J4·087 29·262 26·646 4J·J83 57·88 43·232 04·26o 15·644 55 ·347 30·113 25·340 58·908 18·470 24 ·546 07·690 04·426 00·006 J9'5J7 48·J87 4o·Jo8 57 ·028 34·437 09·041 ±·007 ·007 'OJ' ·' ·006 'OJJ ·017 ·004 ·011 ·003 ·oJO ·011 ·004 'OJ2 ·007 ·011 ·011 ·006 ·013 'Oil ·008 ·012 ·009 ·009 ·0J3

~n.te._i
1881

"

J885

"
J886

" " " 1887 "
J888

5

I

J4 6 0 0 0 JO 4 J6 5 0 45 30 4 37 18 22 IO 4 IO 14 14 17 6

44·479 04·239 48·689 22·801 I 56·803 41·252 36·769 02·874 52·558 28·J80 18·522 I 45·J69 27 ·327 15·337 w·675 33·583 I 00·852 I 11 ·078 43·088 I I ·894 J7·638 27·414 49·269 22·802 09·127 3J ·986 i 43·698 48·532 33·835 I,

I I
I

I

I
I
I I

·007 {'SSS 1889 ·008 J889 ·006 ·008 " ·007 ·009 ·014 ·007 ·011 ·oJo " ·016 ·0J5 ·006 ·007 " ·012' 1S90 ·012 " ·013 ·007 ·010 1891 ·007 " ·006 " ·011 " ·009 " ·008 1892 ·007 " ·006 ·007 ·008 " ·009 "

" "

298

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Double determinations and closing of ci1·cuits in Em·ope.
Stations.
:I

-- --- .·-·- ---·-- 1------- ----·-------Paris- Algiers
1
I

Difference of longitude.

I Closing I error.
s.

Stations

·

error. I Closing

"~- 50-~74
I
.I

I

s.

Paris-Nice Other closini; errors are: Rome-Genoa Rome-Padua Bcrlin-llreslau Pulkowa-Varsovic

27

·494 ·368 24·964 ·957

·126

Kicl-Berlin-Swinemunde Kiel- Bcrlin-Rugard One circuit of four lines

·007 ·069 ·042 ·085 ·058 ·020 ·004 ·034 ·072 'IIO ·140
·002

II

14 2

:t:~:~
27·n9 ·131 33 ·887 ·936 II ·30

·200

·012 ·049

. j
I'

14 37

·001

·57

--- ----------·-----·-- · - · - - · - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - Do11ble <lclerminationB a11cl closing of circuits i11 tlte Unitecl States Bi11ce 1881.
[Somo of thosonro tnkon from tho flolcl cornputationH.]
I .

Stations.

Closing, error.

----------------------·
Nashville-Vincennes-St. Louis Omaha-Kansas City-St. Louis Salt Lake City-San Francisco-Portlancl-\Vallawalla Circuit of five 'lines " three " " three " " three " " three " " three " " six
'' thr<"e ''

--s.

·085 ·005
·018

·o.p ·091 ·004 ·033 ·034 ·057 ·068
·020

Double determination of Little Hock, Ark., from San , Francisco via Salt Lake City, Colorado Springs, Kansas City, and from San Francisco via Los Angeles, Yuma, Nogales, El Paso, differs *The office computation may increase this considerably. this i:olygon; more arc to be introduced.

·04*

About 20 lines arc involved in

'l'here is no reasonable doubt that the expense of operating the lon~i t1Hle parties with the preseut outfit has heen re<lucecl to a minimum. 'l'l1e parties ge11emlly consist of two observers ouly, and determine latit111le and the magnetic elements in a<lditiou to longitude without any extension of time at a station. It is also proposed to do gravity work; but this may either re<1uire a t.hird observer or a Io11ger de~ention of the parties at a station. Only such station's as are free from the jars

REPORT FOR 1898-PAR'f II.

299

of locomotives, street railways, and passing vehicles would be suit.able for this work. While the weight of the longitude outfit may be lessened by the use of smaller combi11atioli instruments for both long·itude and latitude and by procuring lighter chronographs, t!Jc outfits on hand are too vriluable to be discarded. A revised edition of the manual should contain an example of tl1e more recent longitude work, including a time set, computed by both the field and the least square methods. Of tlie main scheme of longitude work laid out some years ago to embrace tlie United States there remains unfinished one long or two. short .seasons' work in the Southwest. It is also highly desirable to ~onnect Montreal, Oanada, with Cambridge, Mass., a111l Albany, N. Y., in order to utilize the last transatlantic cable ·determinatiou, and to connect Cambridge, l\lass., with the new Naval Observatory, ·washington, D., 0. If the old and new Naval Observatories have not been satisfactorily connected, that should be done before the old station is de!'.troyed. It would very materially aid cartography if the geographical positious of the State capitals, important eities, county seats, and most of the larger towns alo11g railroads were determined. Towns near national and State boundaries woul<l l>e especially useful. This work migllt precede the tl'ia11gulation mauy years. Any surveys conducted by the States or l>y otller autlwrities would derive great l>euefit from these established })oints. In order to give an additional test to the accuracy of the longitude determinations it is recommended that one or more lines already determine<l by one set of. observers be redetermiued by other observers. The constant difference between Greenwich and Paris, as shown in the determi11atio11 by, different observers, illustrates the desirability of inaki11g tllis test.
AS'l'HONOMICAL DIFFERENbES OF LONGI'l'UDE FRO::lf LA'I'ITUJ>ES AND REOIPJWCAL. AZDffTHS; ALS.O DIFFElt:i;;NCES OF LONGI'l'UDES J<'IWM AZI::'dU'J'HS AND HECIJ>lWCAL ZENITH DISTANCES.

In ca8es where the telegraphic method or the method l>y flash light is iuapplieable for any reasous whatever, it is suggested that ditforences of longitude may lJC determined bet.ween intervisible poi11ts by reciprocal azimuths or by reciprocal zenith distances. Under tile most favornble conditions the method l>y azimuths is susceptible of a degree of accnr:wy equal to that of the telegrapllic method. It is independent of geode.tic elements of the earth. The method of reeiprocul zenith distances nifor<ls only approximate results, as it rests upon the assumed dimensious of the earth and i'equires a tolerably accurate knowledge of the coefficient of refraction.

300

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

INSTRUa!ENTS USED J<'OR LONGl'l'UDE WORK ON THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE.

of tlle broken telescope type and resemble each otlier in general design.

These instruments, with but two exce11tio11s, so far as cxamincll°, are

The size of the objective ranges from 63 111111 to 77 111111 and the focal distances from 700 111111 to 870 111111 ~ aml the power of tl1e eyepieces used averages 80. 'rwo are as high as 90 and one as low as GO. So far as Boted, a reticule of 13 threads has been used. It will be seen that at all points these figures are less than those describing the longitude instruments of the Survey. The following table gives in compaet form all the information available.regarding these instruments:
1'ranBits.

\Vhcrc used.

Maker.
---

~
0

.

Telescope.

"' '"~ "
.c -- "" .

Remarks.

p.. ·------------

Austria

mm. Starke & Kammerer 66 Pistor & Martins

1nm.1
?

I 68
68

s10
710 738 835
812

I

I

I 90

Broken·

I 13
13 13 13 13

I

Has

?

"
Straight

G. Starke 66 Troughton & Simms 63
1

I 80 I 80
80
60

reversing apparatus. Reversing and hanging level.

"

Repsold Van Ertel Rigaud Pistor & Martins Brunner

Reversing appa· ratus. Reversing gear and hanging level.

Munich Paris Strassburg Spainan<lAlgiers

~::u:

~=~s~;:el

__________ L________________!___________1_~ :~·--0

63 68 61

l~ ~:
775

77

·1

788 870

:o i
62 I
?

Broken ? Broken. " Straight Vertical circle,

I 90

The new longitude transits of the Coast aud Geodetic Survey have ·a focal length of 95° (372- inches), a power of about 100 with tl1e present eyepiece, and a glass diaphragm with _three tallies of 3, 5, and 3 lines each. The frame is so arranged that the azimuth and level a.Qjustments are made at the base.
111

LA1'ITUDE.
llfl~THOT>S

01' OllSEl!VATION AND JXSTUU!lmNTB.

Under the head of latitude the inferior· grades may be passed over with ·a few remarks. 'rllese are micd for magnetics, reconnaissance,·and explorations, and may be determined with a sextant or some form of vertical circle.

REPORT FOR 1898-P.A.RT rJ.

301

The better grades of' latitude a.re now observell iri the United States with the zenith telescope in some of its forms and by Talcott's method. '.l'herc are three classes of these instruments with telescopes, aa follows:
1st. .66cm (26-inch) telescope with 57mm (zt-inch) objective; power about 30-60 zd. 79<m (31 " ) " 5701111 (zt ,, ) 6o--<)o 3d. 114cm (45 " ) " 89°110 (3t " ) 100

The main point to be considered is the accuracy d~sirable, and hence the number of pairs of stars to be used and the size an<l form of instruments. With goou instruments, furnished with improved levels and micrometer screws, such as are now made, and catalogues with wellde.termiucd star places, the number of pairs of stars may be greatly reuuced. On account of inferior star places, it was formerly the custom to observe thirty or forty pairs on six or seven nights. 'l'hat ·number has been gradually reduced to fifte~n or twenty pairs 011 from three to five nights, and may be further reduced and still give results sufficiently accurate for geodetic purposes. Au examination of the local detlectious of the vertical at latitude stations shows. that the determination of astrnnomic latitudes with an accuracy of about a quarter of a second is quite sufficient for most' schemes of triangulation, being within the limits of ordinary cfotiections. A greater precision is necessary in determining. arcs anu locating ,State and natio11al bournlaries, while for the purpose of investigating the variatio11s of latitude tho greatest degree of precision that may be obtained by the employment of the most refiued iustrument and methods is required. The bearing of these last observations upon geodetic smveying .is of tho utmost importance, as it will enable us to d1;1termin11 corrections by which latitudes observed at various times may be 'reduced to the normal latitude. With t,he i11strume11ts now in use the probable error of one observation for 1atitu1le is about 011e-thir1l of a second. '.l'ho probable error of the moan declination of a pair of stars, as furnished by the Coast aud Geodetic Survey Office, is about one-quarter of a second. '.l'eu or twelve . pairs of stars observed on three or four nights should g'ive a latitude with a probable error of about one-tenth of a second. 'fo further illustrate the idea tlrnt' the 1mmber of observations may be reduced, a series of latitude observations was examined and the means were taken out for twenty pairs, observed on six, four, and two nights, respectively; then of fifteen pa~;s, ten pairs, aud five pairs, observed for the same time. The sets chosen were by different observers, and both meridian instruments and zenith telescopes were used. Twenty pairs on six uig·hts were taken ns the stamlaru, and the difference from this standard of fewer pairs on different nights is shown.

302

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Tltc Rtar lists were prepared i11 tltc usual way, so that the differe11ces of tlte zenitll distance were IJalance<l.
------------..

----------------

.
J

1:-,t set.*

,
j

2<l set.·

1

-·--------------·------I )lean. 3d set.* i 4th ~ct.f 5tl1 ~et."'
II II II
/I

II

II

20 pnir~,

'

20

zo
15 15 15
I

6 4 2 6 4 2
6 4
2

ni~hts

o·oo ·16 ·14 ·oo ·17 ·14
·03 ·13 ·10

o·oo ·01 ·11
·01 ·03 ·06 ·14 ·09 ·16 ·07 ·03 ·01

o·oo ·04 ·07 ·oo ·01 ·16
·01 ·03 ·21
·11

I

o·oo ·05 ·20
·05 ·05 ·09

o·oo ·14 ·18 ·or ·12 ·16 ·oz ·14 ·13
·z1 ·47 ·53
:

o·oo ·08 ·14
·01 ·oS
·12

I

--------------·-:

I

I

10 10 10

·13
·22

·07
·12

·15
·12

·15 ·16 ·17 ·19

------·

-·6 4 2

- · · - - - --

------ ·----------

I-

5 5 5

·z9 ·17 ·18

---------- - - - -------- ---·-- ---- ---- -··z. T. No. 1 1 117rm (46-inch) focal length, 83cm (3!-inch) aperture. t .Mel id.ian I n."lt. .No. 16, 79rm (31-inch) focal lcngt11, 63\: 1n (;i~-inch)

.i

''

I
!

·05 ·10

'

·12 ·13

ap~rturc.

'rhe vertical circle has IJeen used, awl is still being usetl, with satisfaction for latitude obscrvatious on some of the Europcau surveys. Under equal couclitions it is uot believed that it possesses any adv~n tage over the zenith telescope. A series of tests of the various metlluds aud iustrumeuts was made under Professor Bache in 1847, a,Jl(l the zenith telescope (using the 'l'alcott method) was declared to he so far superior to the others for our work that it was adopted and has been used eyer since. It is growing i11 favor witll the Enropeaus. They offere<l a strong testimo11ial to its merits by using it for the precise ouservatious necessary in determining the variatious of latitude. Colo11el Clarke, in his Geodesy, says of this instrnme11t, "As made hy '\Yu.rdemann, it is an instrument of extreme i1recision and most pleasant to ob:-;en·e with." And again: "The simplicity of construction of the ze11ith telescope exempts it from se,·eral of the recognized sources of instrnmental errors, while its portability and case of maniprilation eminently lit it for geodetic purposes. It is exclusively adopted for latitudes in the United States, and it is probable that no one who has used it would return to graduated circles for latitude." .Au e11larged catalogue of latitude stars is greatly needed; one that includes stars from tile pole to 10° or 1~ 0 south of the equator, and down to the seventh magnitude. In the elevated regions of the United States there is but little trouble in observing these small stars. · As to the q nestion of increasi 11g the 1mm ber of astronomical stations, especially those for latitude aJl(l azimuth determi11atio11s in the Hchemes of triangulation .already plan11c1l, some remarks have been made in the reports of the committees on A1·cs an<l on Triaugulation. It may be stated in general terms that lint few more of tllesc stations are needed in the tnmscou tinental scheme and int.he tria11gulalions 011 the Atlanti~

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

303

and Pacific coasts beyond those already contemplated in the uncompleted portions of the work. For the fmrpose of studying the local detlcctious of the vertical, howev1tr, it h; desirable to have as many latitudes and azimuths as can reasonably be observed without increasing the expense, and 80 distributed with regard to the orographic and geological features thatauy point of suspected disturbance maybe examiner I. The local deflections alo11g the Atlantic average 2"·2, but tliey are somewhat greater 011 the Pacific Slope. \Yhen a scheme of triangulation starts ou one of the principal lines of the regular network designed to cover the entire United 8tat-0s and terminates on another of these lines, no i11termediate astronomical stations will he required. \Vhen a scheme of triangulation is. eijtirely iudepen1leut of nil other schemes both initial aud terminal astronomic statious will he required. ·In both of these cases the remarks 011 the subject of local deflections arc applicable. When no triangulation at all is contemplated t11e work falls undei· the head of geographical positions, which has been ulrea1ly considared. The vertical circle used abroad in latitude work is also of the broken telescope variety. This form of instrument has been recommended for the ease a.nd comfort to the observer, us his eye remains in the same position; also for its stability, owing to the low Y· and large base. It seems to lrn ve give11 no better results than instruments used in the Coast a11<l Geodetic Survey. The tendency toward adopting some form of ze11ith telescope on the Co11tinent is presumptive evidence that it possesses advantages over all forms of vertical eircles. The latitude instrnmeut used by Dr. Marcuse in the Hawaiian Islands was a zenith telescope of nearly the same OQjectiYe, focal length, and power as those used in the Coast and Geodetic Survey for a similar purpose, but it is more massive in its parts and heavier to transport. The base is very heavy, the telescope is broke11, but the prism is very near the focus. There are two latitude levels of the best make. The horizoutal axis is 20'"" and the vertical axis is 34cm in length. The focal le11gth of the telescope is 37cm and the diameter of the objective is 6·Scm
J"til'lica/ ci rclcB,

,---~Inker.. ·1 ~b·· ·. t' · ~>ocnl IP >Wcr· I Tclcsco11e · JCC "c. · length. · '
J

I

.Cir:;~.---

1---------1---Austria
K cthcrlnnds

G. Starke

1-11~1i·
. 53 67

I

;l--i-~-:-- 11·-~:okcn6o 68

I

.

~~- c~6
34 32 34

JI.

\'.

""'"'" =d

''m~"] __ ~?-

" . Repsol<l

- - 6 o .... ----'

_J ___ :::~::~'-

i

304

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY·
.A.Zll\IUTH.

Azimuths are of different grades, according to the objects for which they may be required, such as magnetics, reconnaissa11ce, and explQrations, in whieh a ,! or 6 inch altazirnuth may be usetl; for running meridian lines or other liues depe1H1ing thereon; for tertiary triangulation, in which 8 or JO inch instruments may be nse1l; for seco11dary and primary triangulation, in whieh tl1e beRt class of instruments, from 30° 111 to !)le"' (12 to 20 i11ches), are recp1ired, and an accuracy compatible with t.he scheme of triangnlatio11 must he reached. The azimuth should be measured with the same precision aR the horizontal angles in the scheme, which in the case of primary triangulation will in general be accomplished by observing azimuth in as many positions aud· series, or hy as many sets of repetitio1is, according to the type of instruments employed, as arc used in the horizontal angle work of the triangulation. Under the assumption of careful and proper manipulation a primary azimuth may be determinetl with the more refined type of modern instruments in about four or 1i ve days' obscrvat:ons, with a probable error not exccediug about J:O"·l!i. The azimuth is reduced to the normal meridiau. Accompanying this report is a map (illustrnt.ion No. 12) showing the distributiol1 of the principal astro110111ical station::; occupied by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for the tlctermination of latitude, longitude, and azimuth to .January, 18!.!4. C. II. SiNCLArn, Cltafrrnan. G. n.,l'U'l'NAlll, Secretary.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE E, ON HYPSOMETRY.

A knowledge of relative ele,·atfons on the earth's surface is a fundamental necessity in the investigation of many physical qnestions and in engineering operatiom; of various ki11ds. In tl1e United States Coast and Geodetic Survey work of this nature hafl been done to meet the needs of the topogrnuher, the triangnlator, the physical hydrographer, and for the use of the engineers engaged on the improvemeut of our rivers. So long as the opcratiom; were confined t.o the immediate vicinity of the seacoast, where con11ectio11 conld be wade with t.idal stations" by means of short lines, the requisite degree of accuracy could be attained by methods of moderate precision; but when it became necessary to extend them considerable distances i11la11d the demand for greater refiuefoent became apparent; and there resnlted what have been called the "standard levels of the. Survey.~' These have bee11 undertaken primarily to reduce the geodetic operations to HC!t level and to aid, by comparing titlal planes aloiig the coast of the United States, iu

Dislribution. or lhe principal astronomic Sta.lions occupied by the u. S . Coast and Geodetic SurYey for Latitude,Lon.gitude,an.dAzum..dh lo Jww.a.ry 1894 To Reporl or Geodetic Confer·en.ce _ No. l '2 US .Coast urtd GrodRltcSurw:ylieport rqrJ893. l'brt II

J--~
"
N \ A
'-

" \

n

'

I

I

..

1'll

l,
(....

~ I o ~I
\

I

I
I

::.
~

"

~ --*
I

-

~

1-

r.
0

I...

~.
l"I

7-~-

'::!:~

.,, .L '

~~ ~ -~. \
+GI UL F

" .

\

\
\

I

I~

----0 ,..E>Cplanation of Signs :
-0-

.'1 l!:

X

I

t\'*'~ ,' ""t '· ~

i··
c1 !

II. S.Coust

<01./

Geodc!tic Sul"·'f")'

...
,....
I

.latitude Stations

?

Lo"1Ji.t.ude

.,
"

7'f"' .\fcntlrftltul( Sty:H",'tnlcnbn.t

/J"·~·· ,\lap of'tlw United States
( p,-OJt'Cl~d 0'1 1ntit!!'rsec.t1ng COnf!}

N.-8. Aalrort.on1..'l ob:ier'$ in Alaska loo !Cw 00

-t

'q_ Arim.u.lh

~ ~ ~ Q,,,.,bt "°'ti.on. Sla.lto"4

l

-d·
ltd

1m13
.l:°~l::n":"

~' alut~ M il··

~ ~~~~.~~~

Kiln met.rt·

. ..
z... ..a :....

--

.t:'T.""1·

l.

..,.

tu

..--

" iC

-L~

~-·

~

Pllof,,..LJth b7 A HOEii ...

co .. Balt(I.

REPORT FOR 189S-PART II.

305

the solution of important physical questions in regard to the ocean; to form the bash; of a11d to bring into accord all topographical surveys of the country, whether under State or Federal patronage; to furnish data required in connection with gravity obserrn,tions;and incidentally to supply planes of reference for engineering operations of all kinds. As it is eddent that these operations must ultimately be extended to all parts of the country, it becomes necessary to consider the require· ments to be met and the degree of accuracy demanded; The objects most apparent aud the degree of accuracy desirable in each may be stated as follows: Fortopography: \Vithiu 1 metre. (See Annual l{eport Superintendent United States Coast and neodctic Survey, 1891, Part II, p. li34,
}la!'.

17.).

l)hysical hydrography: With the utmost degree of accuracy. For base-line reduction: ·within O·t:i metre. For gravity operations: Within six-tenths of a metrn (O·um). For tidal planes: With the utmost degree of ac1:urncy. For meteorological investigations: 'l'o the 11earest foot.· For the study of strata and the :flow of underground water in the arid regions an accurate system of levels is demanded. For engi11eeri11g- operations: '\Vi th g'l'l~at accuracy. As the beneh marks determined by the standard levels of the Survey mnst he u,;cd as base points for nil of tliese objects, it is evident that a very high degree of acc.uracyds demanded, a degree as high as there is any hope of our attaining by the most precise instruments and methods at our command. Two types of instruments are in use, the wye level of civil engineers and the geodetic or level of precision. They differ in construction, but more particularly in the methods employed in their use. In general it may be stated that in.wye levels ·the adjustments are made and supposed to remain constant duri11g a day or a portion of a day, and the accuracy of the results depends upon the correctness of this assumption, the records containing no clue to changes, although in the best work the elimination of errors from adjustment is sought by making the F. S. and B. S. always equal. The" geodetic level" of the Survey is a specially devisecl instrument. The errors in the various adjustments of the instrument are by the metbod used recorded at each station, aud are eliminated by making the F. S. and B. S. equal by reversals of telescope a11d of the striding level, readings in each position by means of a micrometer screw being made and a mean taken, which is true iu spite of any want of adjustment. Other methods have been used in lines of precise leveh; elsewhere, and will be referred to under another head.
- ·-----·----··-----------·1--·- · - - - - - - - · - - - - - - - -

l~or

.Stat.cu by ProfoHsor Hurrington, Chief of lJnitetl letter <fotetl February 17, 1894. S. Ex. l!l, pt. 2-.W

Stnte~

Wl·ntli1·r Bureau, in

306

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

About 9 750 kilometres (6 100 miles) of precise levels having already been run by different corps in the United States to meet the demands of special iuvestigations and in the regular work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the desirability of a consistent scheme of lines to control the whole country to which all future work may be made to lend itself has become apparent.. In presenting such a scheme the considerations governing its selection may be briefly stated as follows: To provide a means, the most direct and economical, for connecting the mauy tidal stations 011 our Atlantic, Gulf, and Pacific seaboards. To connect these several tidal planes by routes which will best overcome the uncertainties arising from crossing mountain chains, etc. To form closed fig-ures that will best determine the degree of accuracy of the work. To make the lines of levels conform as nearly as possible to existing or proposed schemes of triangulation and especially of arc measures. To take ad.vantage of all work of a like nature heretofore executed, and to distribute judiciously over the country bench marks which may serve as points of departure for hypsomctric work of all kinds. The great advantages offered by graded ground for operations of this class, together with cousiderations of eco11omy and facility of transportation, practically confine them to railway lihes where they can be followed. Fortunately in most parts of the United States they are so numerous as to offer every facility. On the accompanying sketch map (illustration No. 13), which is practically the same as prcse11 ted to the Co11ference at its first meeting, the details of a general i:;cheme arc dispiaycd which, it is believed, in a great measure fulfill the requirements mentioned. It consiSt8 primarily of three east and west lines connecting on the Atlantic aud Pacific seaboards with lines conforming to the general direction of those coasts and crossed between the uiuetieth a.ml ninety~ighth meridians by-north and south lines of closetl figures. The four great figures thus formed arc to l>e further subdivided into lesser ones as opportunity offers or special demands permit. 'l'hese Jines should follow tlie most direct railway routes along the Atlantic seaborird from :Maine to St. Augustine, Fla., across the peuinsula of Florida to the Gulf of l\iexico, which they skirt to Corpus Ohristi, thence to Laredo, Tex., and by the Southern Pacific route to the Pacific Slope, and northward, by the lines of railway conforming most nearly to the coast, to Seattle, whence they return by the Great Northern and the most direct routes to St. Paul, Chicago, Toledo, Buffalo, Oswego, and the Atlantic coast. The central east and west li11e has been completed to Kansas City and the route from there to San Francisco definitely determined upon. Lines have been run on the Atlantic coast from Sandy Hook to Fort Monroe, and the ninetieth meridian was selected for the north and south line of closed figures because the greater portion of the work has already been done or is in course of completion.

REPORT FOR 1S93-PART II.

307

The distinction has been made between precise levels and levels as run by civil engineers for construction purposes. In the latter no attempt is generally made to secure a greater degree of accuracy than is required by the work in hand. Precise levels, on the other hand, are intemled to f~ruish, as nearly as physical contlitious a11d the means at our disposal will admit, the true difforences in elevations between points widely separat~d. Work of this class has been done by almost all European nations, ancl to a lesser extent by three organizations under the United States Government. No pain." have been spared that :;;ecmed necessary to give permanent value to the results either for the objects immediately ill view or which might arise in the future. \Yltile a high degree of accuracy has been attained, it nowhere equals that aimed at or hope<l for, and the work may be suiu to be still iu a measure experimental. 'l'he following papers npou ''Leveling in foreign countries," "Precise 1evels in the U uited States,'' and "He cent work with the engineer's precise wye level," which were prepared by differe11t members of this eommittee, present the subject as fully as the time at our disposal would admit.
LEVELING- IN FOREIGN COV:N'.l'Rms.

Tlw record we find in history of vast schemes for reclamation of great areas of mar:-;lt lands, the successful projects for mig-hty systems of canal and river regulat.ion, and the aqueduct systems of great water users like the Homans and Greeks testit'.\' to the early knowledge the , ancients had of devices which enabled them to determine differences of levels with a fair means of exactness. 'l'he Egyptians must have had a fair idea of the relative differeuces of the Hed Sea aud the Mediterranean when they determiue1l to connect the two seas l>y a canal, for it is donbtfnl if tho Pharaoh who onlcred it would ha Ye considered his pr~ject fcasiule, despite his mighty resources, if he had thought, as tl1e Europeans did from the time of Xapoleon's expedition to Egypt until Bonrdalout:'K leveling survey in 1847, thnt low tide ih the Hed Sea was 8·12 higher than the same tide in the l\foditerrauean. Precise leveling, however, with its present degree of exactness, was not a possibility before the invention of air-lmbble levels, and this discovery only dates hack to 1666. ln the .Journal des Savants for November 15 of that year is a paper describing the new apparatus, under the 11eading, ''A new machine for the regulating of waterways, for building construction, for navig·atiou, and many other arts." The notice contains a diagram and a description of the instrument, but does not give the name of the inventor. In Hi82 Melchisedech Thevenot, in an accmmt of bis travels, refors to the instrurnen~ as one he had invented fourteen or fifteen yea.rs previously, and he is now generally credited with this very' important discovery.
111

308

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The <lifhcult~· attenuiug the exact con1:>t.ruction ul' the level vial, particnhtrly the calibration of the in~rior, pl'even tetl the ntiliimtion of the new instrument until about a century later, wheu the iug·enuity of t.he French engineer Chezy overcame the difficulty arnl devised means for obtaining a regular "curvature of the im;ide of the tnhe and enabled the rneehauician to obtain any desired degree of sensibility. The 1in·t leveling instruments which utilize<l the le\·l'l vial in connection with the telescope were modeled after the ol<l level with sigl1ting vanes. The vanes were replaced by the telescope; but no attempt· "«ts made to make the line of horizoutality of' the level tube parallel with t11e line of vision, a111l their :uljustments had to be repeated frequently and were very laborious. 'Chezy, in France, and Ha111sueu, i11 E11gla11d (about a bnnured years after the inve11t'io11 of the spirit lev<'l), ""~re tl1e first to desig:n instrumeuts in whieh the modern principles of construction were introduced, and the main features of' t.hosc co11strncted after their designs or by them are to be found in many used at the present time. The first large scheme of leveling was umlertaken in the latter part of the seventeenth century by order of .Louis Xl V in connection with the schemes for tbe improvement of French waterways. The perfecting of means for this purpose engaged the at.tention of ~mch scientists as La Hire, l\fariottc, and Huyghens, but the apparatus used was from a design submitted by the Abbe Pfoard, who was the first to suggest placing cross wires in the focus of the telescope, a11<l who was given charge of the leveling operations. 'l'his leyel consisted of a box about 1·25 111 long incloi.;ing a plumb line which was arranged at right angles on the tube of a telescor>e furnishP<l with cross wires. Ill this box the plumb line was preserved from agitation by currents of air. A fiducial line engraved on an interior side of the box, and visible through an opening, enabled the obscr\'Cr to determine when the optical axis of the telescope wa's horizontal. The reticule of his.instrument was aujusted by experiment so as to give a horizontal line when observing. La Hire showed that the error of a sight with this instrument and method in the field need not exceed 1/3G 000 of the length of a level sight, which wouhl be nearly equivalent to 0·003 111 for 100111 · But this precision was only obtained at the expense of long and tedious trials. The first general scheme for leveling over the area of a great country was set forth in ~t volume written by a French scientist, l\f. Ducarla, in 1782. Again, in 1805, P. S. Girard, the engi11cer in chief of the Pon ts et Cbaussecs, presented a memoir in which he described a prqject for system of levelings which would give all the curves necessary to show the configuration of the ground over the whole of France. This idea does not seem to have taken hold until the Restorittion, when it was decided to prepare a new map of France, and in connection with this scheme a general system of trigonometrical leveling was ordered.

a

REPORT :POR 1893-PART II.

309

The disagreement (in some cases amounting to 2 111 ) that was so often found between the results of this leveljng and the spirit level.s of engineers in all parts of the country caused a great deal of unfavorable commeut, and in 1847 the distinguished French engineer Bour<lnloue, iu an account of some Ievelings between Lyons, Nimes, :Marseilles, all(l Valence, proposed a new scheme of levels of control and described methods by which the work could be done with a rapidity and degree of exactness surpassing a11ytbing yet attained in exte\lded work. Bourdaloue had already distinguished himself by several notable undertakings, having, among other important duties, been charged with the study of the topogmpliy of the Istlimus of Suez, where he -had shown the error of tlte level determi11ations between tlte Hed Sea and the :M:editerraneau made by the engiueers of the First Napoleon. For seYeral y<;\ars he occupied himself especially with the question of tlie general leveling of France. In the words of Breton de Obamp, "A practical man alJoye all, lie wished to know at once what would be the cost of bring"ing so vast a work to a satisfactory conclusion. He was the possessor of a fortuue ac<}liired by the most honorable means, and a part of tliis was devoted to making au experimental leveling .of the . entire Departmc11t of le Cher, the one in which lte was bom. In July 15, lS,j'i, the minister of public works, with the advice of the general council or briuges au<l roaus, intrnsted this work (the general survey of France) to l\I. Bour<lalotii.·, 'who, by his previous experience, his capacity, awl (lisi11tt·rested11ess,' gave every gu:ira.nty that could be desired for the proper prosecution of an operation of this great importauce." Perhaps undue attention has been given to leYeliug· in France; but it has seeme1l worthy of remark because the art we are considering seems to owe its origin a.ml development (ns now practiced) mainly to tlie i.;cicntists and far-sighted administrators of that country. The telescope u,.;e1l in this work was 0·;)0 111 loug, the di:uneter of the oliiect.ive was 0·04 111 , the fo1·al le11gth was 0·48 111 , aml t.lw magnifying J>OWer nse<l was ;H;, 'l'be levels m~etl Wel'C attached to the frame Of the i11strttme11t and had ,-a.hies of from 3" to 7" for 1111111 division of the level tul>e. By mca11s of a screw the height of the rPar cud of the telescope could be moditie<l wheu adjusting the iustrttmtmt. ' '.l.'lle rods were of tlw sclf-rna<ling tyne, made of wood, 4111 in length,. and dividetl generally into <lonblo 1lecimetrc and donblo centimetre divisions. Each tlonblc 1lecimetre conta.i11s two groups of five tlivisious of 0·0~ 111 t·ach, one 011 the left and oue 011 the right side of the rod. 'rhe "~idth of the ro<l was O·O'i an<l that of the divisions 0·0'.!.:Jm, leavfog 0·045 111 for the figures. In. eaeh group there were three figures, two in black aud the third red. The thfrd figure was 0 in the lower half of each double decimetre ancl V iu the nppei· halt As two observers read the rod, and the sum of their readiugs was the true value of the length
111

310

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

taken for hack or fore sight., the divisions were convez~tional. 'l'be rods had two lian<lles at the sides and were supplied with watch lev~ls to insure thefr being hehl perpendicular. They were shotl at the bottom and' were held on portable steel spikes that wer<1 llriveu in the ground with a hammer or maul. The methods of equal distances of stations from instrument and keeping the level lmbble in the ceuter when observing were followed. Each party consisted of four persons, one calle'l the "observer,'' one called the "rea,ler," a111l two ro!lme11. . When the rods were in place and the iustrnment leveled the observer directed his telescope toward the back roll and silently noted the rea,<linp; (while the rea,ler watched the level lmbulc and saw it was exactly central), aml tllen entered it in his notebook. 'l'hc rca<lm· then took his place and silently lllarked his reading, while the observer watched the bubble. '.l~ho instrument was then directed to t11cfore rod and t11e same procedure followed. 'l'hcn the level and telescope were reversed, and commeucing on the fore sight the same number of observatious arnl i11 the same order were rcpea.ted on the two rods. vVhen all was compleh\d the reader a11 no1111ced his results, and if they agreed within the limits of tolcran<:e with those of the observer the instrument was taken np arnl earric(J to the next: statio11. This method, it was considered, compensated materially for the effect of si11 king in the in strum en t or for any change which might be du(\ to fine particle::> of dnst getting into the bearings of the instrument, aud practically elimiaatcd :t!l chances for recording a wrong reading. Sights were limited to 12f:i or 1:~0 111 , except for river crossings. Each li11e was leveled over three time::> in the ma.nucr described. Bourdaloue's field work w:ts executed between 1857 aud 18GO, an<l the results issued in 18li4. The lines leveled comprised a length of H ll80 kilometres, and the cost of the work was about 50 franes per kilometre. The error of closing of the polygons in Bourdaloue's work is said to be represented. by the expression trnm ../k, where k was the length of line in kilometres. 'l'hc difterc1wc allowed between any two measurements of a line of levels is sa.id to be ·'very approximately" '.! 111111 . ; 7,:~ These values are given in Breton de Ohamp's treatise on leveling (3d ed., p. 331), but it is hardly credible that the Bourdaloue li11es wou1d be now classed as secondary if snch vrecision was attained. Bour<laloue's work was not carried out to the extent that was first planned in 18;;0; a ueglect entailing, according to the estimate of a writer in the Genie Civil, a loss to Pr:uice of at least a half milliard of francs ($!JO 000 000). In 1884 the necessity for greater refinement in the knowledge of the differences of levels between poi11ts of the first importance and of a more general system resulted in a new scheme for a general leveling, whic11, when presented to tlic Chamber of Deputies for action, eliciteu a report from :M:. Satli-Cu,rnot (the present President of the Hepnblic), who \va!:-1 chairman of the committee charged with its consi<lerntio11, iri which lie says: "Your committe~ i.s unani·

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

311

mous in agreeing to the projects of the Government. All its members have received from the lmreaus they represent instrnctions to work for the success of an enterprise which concerns in the bighest degree the . prosperity of agriculture, the economy of public work (departmental, communal, and corporative), aud tbe dcfe11sc of our territory as well as the scieutiiic renown of France." 'rho appropriation for the work was set at ~'.! 000 000 francs. Xineteen milliou francs were to be used for field work, and :l 000 000 francs were sot aside for the production of a map (on a scale of 1: ;)() 000) whicb wonl<l. show the results of the le,·eli11g. The new sclleme was to consist of 12 000 kilometres of Hues of first-class precisio11 and 800 000 kilometres of Ii11cs or the secoJl(l claHs. The same i11strument and general methods were to be used for both classes of work; but the allowance for discrepancies all(l probable error is al.lout double for the second elass what it is for the fir!'it, and there arc no reversals of telescope and level reri nired for second-class lines. 'rhe results of the levels are checked by connections with 12 tirs.t-class self-registeri11g gauges 01~ the chan11cl, Atlantic, and Mediterranean. This new leveling scheme was put in charge of a special commission consisting of dclep;ates from the liridgei;; and roads service, the army, an<l the mining· engineers. The instrument use1l, wl1i<;h weig·hs 12 kilogrammes, has a telescope with an aperture of 3H 111111 , a focal length of 36""', and a magnilying power of 25; radms of curvature of level tube 50111 , giving a value of about 4"·1 per millimetre. The instrument is carried 011 a spherical bl'aring, which permits its being leveled approximately before using the leveli11g screws. By rneans of retlecting prisms the two ends of the bubble, with their accompanying graduations, are visible in the telescope to the observer, enabling him to verify the accuracy of tlrn level ceuteriug at th!3 instant of g·ettiug the rod reading. 'l:he reflecting prisms are gronud to different curvatures, so that both ends of the level are reflected with equal distinctness allll size. 'l:he rods are the so-called compensating staves, designed by Colonel Goulier, of the commission. They are of the self. readiug varieties an<l. made of wood. Tile divisions aro centimetre, 5 111111, and 2 111111 · 'l:he peculiarity of the rod is the provision matlo for its ready comparisou. This consists of a Borda scale of iron and brass bars, used only for dctermi11i11g- the length of the wooden ro<l. fastened to it at the lower end and allowed to move freely 111 the opposite direction. The ends of the rods carry fine scales, the relative positions of which, as well as their eomparisou with a similar one 011 the wooden part of tue rod, are read three timm; a day and 11ote1l i11 the record to determine the variations in the length of the rml. When the wooden rod is graduated no care is taken to divide it with great exactness. A systematic error is allowed, and the correction for each division is determiHed by comparison with a standard scale; and the list so obtained is reserved for the computers and is purposely kept

312

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

secret from the observers. After the standardizing of the rods a table, called au abacus, is prepared, by means of which by a rapid operation the computer finds for tlrn apparent difference of level readings between the two rods the correction to be applied on account of the irregularities of the 'rod division, shown by the standardizing and the variation of length shown by the reading of the scales of compensation. For this new work in France two field parties have been employed, each consisting of four men-an observer, an assistant, and two rodmen. The first thing done is the selection of the places for bench marks. 'l'hey are then cemented into pla-0e, and after that the leveling· beg'ins. A day's work is restricted to the leveling between two fixed bench marks, and the line is to be run forward and backward. Pwkets are driven in the ground to support the rods, and in their tops bemispherical-headed nails are driven for the rod to stand 011. 'l'he same pickets are used for both measurements. Two rods are used in each party. After the end of a day's field work the record for the day must be mailed to the central office for computation, and if any errors are found beyond tl.Je limit of tolerance, the line is re-run. The fixed l.lench marks are plates of oxidized iron or bronze carrying a hemispherical projection on the 1lat top of the piece projecting from the wall in wltich it is fastened. On thi8 the rod is set when the bench mark's height is determined. A vertical porcelain plate is also attaehed to the wall, which carries letters and iiumbers represe11ting the section and place in it of the bench mark; also the inscription" Nivellernent General" and the figures which represent the height of the bench mark above mean sea level. Another form of bench mark is a hemispherical-topped bronze bolt, which is cemented into the portals and base conrses. of certain buildings and bridges . .A. special and original system of pay has been devised for this work by M. Lallemand, to whom more than anyone else the credit for the great success of this leveling is due. The pay of the field men increases nearly as the square of the length of lines run by them. Bourdaloui~'s work, which had an accuracy only about one.third as good as the current system, cost 50 francs per kilometre. When' the new work was taken up, in 1884, the price was 41 francs per kilometre, and now it has fallen to 33 francs per kilometre, while at the same time the rod man's pay bas increased from 6 francs fiO centimes to 12 francs per day. The instruments, rods, and methods of this work show a marked difference from those employed in India, Switzerland, a.nd Germany, but apparently they are impressing others with their worth. In an article in the Genie Civil it is stated that they have been adopted for the survey of Algiers and 'l'uuis by the Service Geographique de l'.A.rmee. They are to be employed in the new leveling survey of Belgium. 'rhe )lili· · tary Geographical Institute of Florence has announced its intention of substituting these instruments aud methods for the Swiss and German ones hitherto exclusively used; and the Prussian Military Topographical Service is also going to make a trial of them (1890).

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

313

The French work is made np of closed polygons which average about
380 kilometres in perimeter. 'fhe probable error amounts on the average to 0·9rum per kilometre. The mean sea level at Marseilles is the datum

plane adopted, and iu addi~ion to the self-registering gauge at that port
11 other of the new-form tide-registering gauges known .as mediama-

remeters are employed iu connection with the leveling. In 1863 the results of the French work showed tliat the elevation assumed for the initial point of the Swiss leveling systenl. was 2·59ru too high. Values obtained from the lines of railroad levels which converged at Bille gave a result which pointed to an error of 2·11 111 ; and a discussion of the trigonometrical results showed that the fundameatal altitude of the Chasseral, which had been selected as the point of reference for that wol'k, by a mistake was taken 0·97"' too high, and consequently all these heights were t-00 great by that quantity. The consideration of these matters led to the appointment of a commission to provide for Switzerland a 11ew and precise syRtem of levels. This committee, through its representative, M. Hirsch, in 1864 presented a resolution to the International Geodetlc Co1tf'erence, which, being adopted, recommeu<led a general system of precise levels over the greater part of Europe in which the method of Je\·eling by equal sights and provitling for the control of the work by a combination of closed polygons was to be followed. It was provided that each concurring nation should establish a permanent zero to which all of its heights would refer, the mean level of the sea to be determined at the greatest possible numbet' of points by means of self:registering apparatus, aud the zero point of the tide gauges to be comprised in the primary leveling. Upon the completion of the work a plan of comparison for all the heights in Europe wns to be decided upon. The instrument adopted by tlie Swiss was made by Kern and was of the type which is so generally known by his name. Two parties were selected for the work, and two instruments almost identical were supplied to them. The apertures of the objectives were 0·033 111 aud 0·035"', tlieir focal 1e11gth 0·411 111 and 0·406 111 , mid their magnifying powers 42 and 45, respectively. At first a Uepsold level bubble ,.;.ith a value of 1"·5 for a length of division 2·26m was used, but it was found impossible to utilize it in the 011en air, a11d au Ertel level of double the value was substituted for it. The level values were obtained by means of the 3-foot meridian circle in the Neufcliiitel Observatory. Iu the first instrument the reticule had ono fixed mul one movable · wire, and the distance of the fixed threatl, from 2°m di visions between which it came, was measured by the movable wiro connected with the micrometer attached to tlie telescope. But it was f'omHl that the errors .of the micrometer readings were as great or greater than those made in dividing the rod by estimation, and three fixed horizontal wires were attached to the reticule. In a series of experiments the rods were set at a number of points varying iu distance from the instrument between
111

314

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC P.URVEY.

10"' and 100"', and readings takm1, respeetivdy, with micrometer and with the three wires. · For the first instrument a,Jl(l observer the mean error of a <letermination by use of fixed thread was :!:: 0 11 ·8:~8, and for the micrometer thread it was :I:: 1"·112. For the second instrument and observer these values were, respectively, :I:: 1"·112 and :l: 1"·578, Th<~ mean error of a reading in the field made with the fin;t i11strnme11t and obsc1Ter when the micrometer method was nsed was cl:: O·GU 11 "". Jn the following year, when the three threads were usc<l, this was re<lnce<l to ::!:: 0·48"'"'. One roll was useu in each party. 'fhesc were made of pilll' woo<l, a11d were very carefully constructed by l\I. Kem, who attended peri,;onally to their graduation a:Hl painted the lines on them "·ith his own lrnmls. This was done with such precision tl·at the errors of the divisions did not exceed the limits of errors of observation. 'l'he rodH were 3 111 1011g, Sc 111 wide, 2·2cm thick. 'l'o secure strength they ha<l each a dorsal rib 4·Scm thick, 2cni wide. The division was into centimetres alteruatcl.v black ~ntl white in the center of the rod. Outside them were white spaces on which the numbers were painted, on one side even and o<ld on the other. Tlie rods had box levels and small pr~jccting mt!tal brackets. From tlw upper one the plumb bob was suspended when tests were made, aud t11c lower one carried a small pyramid, tl10 coincide:iee of whose point with the point of the plumb bob proved the peq1emlicularity of the rot.1. 'fhe ciul of the rod was shod. like tlH>8e use1l fo1· t~redse leveling work in the Coast Survey. The foot plates were also similar. A light tripod was used to support the r01l when occasion required it. A large umbrella wits use<l to shade the instrument. Generally the ouly check on the character of the work was the closing of tl1c JlOlygons, but in some special ca~cs double lines were run. It was hoped that the reading of the three fixed lines would remove nll danger of large errors of reading, but in the reports, nevertheless, there are instances of mistakes. In oue case an error of a decimetre was made; in a second, one of 2·6· 1111 ; in a third, of a wlwle mctt·e . .A special point was made of separating the observations from the computations. Each evening the observer was required to make a copy of his day's record mul compare it with ltis rodman. Then one copy wns sent to the olrnervatory at Neufchfltel from the first post-oflice available, an<l when an acknowledgment was ha<l tho other copy was sent to Geneva and two independent computations we!'e made, one at each observatory. 'r!1e collimation and level a<ljustmcnts arc tested and the inequality of pivots is determined after mounting and before dismounting the. instrument. Generally, in case the instrument receives any jar, they a.re to be determine<l before the instrument is used, and in any event they must be determined once a day.

HEPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

315

The following is the manner of ob:-;erving at a station: Having made tl.te telescope hol'iwntal a.llll ltavi11g set the vertical wire of the telescope on the center of the rod, the obserYer reads the level, noting the position. of the ends-reading tl.tcm to tenths. Then on signal from the rodman that his staff is vertical he reads the position of the three horizontal wires on the rod, beginning with the lowest, giving the result to deeimillimetres. Then he examiues his reading to see that there is no .enor of a centimetre or more, and for the second time he reads tlw level. Ou favorable ground the mean error per kilometre was about+ O·GG 111111 , but over some of the high mountaim;, whern roll~i hail to be set up in springy, g-rassy gTound, probable error8 of 4·i>7 111111 were found. Two kilometres ner day seems to ha,·e bee11 the average rate of
}lrO~l'eS8.

Before beginning tho lC\·eling work, in lSGJ, two bolts were securely cemented i11to a rock in front of the observatol'y at Ncufoli£1tel which ditlcred about :!·!:1 111 iu elovation, aJl(l each season the comparative lpngths of the rod8 were tested by being held oil them, with the instrument set up exadly between them. In addition to this test, tlw rous were tested every winter by comparison with the Swiss standard in Berne, all(} the results ol' the operations for fifteen ye~1!'s show a mean variation iu the length of the rods (detornline<l on the bench marks at Neufchtttel) of ::L O·Ou4 111111· per metre; a1ul for rod number I, 1letermined · at Berne, of + O·O;i8 11 " 11 , for rod number II of 0.066 111111 , or a mean of ± O·OG2 111111 · 'l'he observations at Berne were nearly all made at a mean temperature in winter, while those at Neufch:'ttcl were at the beginning or end of a fiel<l season in temperatures varying from 20·6 to ~40 0. and with . an air saturatiou varying from 0·;)7 to <Hl8. The r~nark.able accordance of .tho result gave the commission, it states, a new guaranty that the rods, even when exposed in the field to still greater extremes, would not expel'ience variations sensibly greater than those determined in the experiments. The only information on the subject of I~nglish levels of precision that was attainable was the r(3port on the work done ill Iudia in conucction with the Great Trigonometrical Survey. Here for many years difforenc.es ot' hejght were obtained trigonometrically, but in 1858 the Survey began a line of Rpirit levels to connect points in central India with the mean sel~ level in Karachi Harbor 1tnd this work has since continued. The in~trnment adopted was the Trough ton & Simms level, described in Simms's Treatise on Instruments, of 1844, and is the ordinary Y-level, except that the level is partly embedded in the telescope tube. The focal length of the instrument was 53<' 111 (21 inches) and its magnifying power about 42. The levels had a value of about 1".7 for a division (length not given), and in observing the ellllS of the bubble were read. The rods were of wood, 10 feet long, aml divided into feet, tenths and

316

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

hundredths, one face having a white ground with black figures and the otber a black grou11d with white figures. On the first face the feet were numbered from 0to10 and on the other . from 5·55 to lih35. Both faces were read at each station, and if the horizontal wire intersected the commencement of a foot on one face it would intersect the middle of a different foot 011 the other face, and the observer could not be biased to repeat in the second reading a mistake made in his first, any error in either reading being shown by the deviation of the difference of the two values from the normal amount 5·55, or, in practice, by the difference in the resulting rise or fall obtained from the pairs of black and white face readings, which should give very nearly identical results. "'l'he rods were furnished with plumb bobs, let int-0 their sides and visible through glass doors. Swivels 'vere fixed on the top of the rocls for guy ropes, to adjust them to the perpendicular aud keep them steady. In order that the results obtained at each station by successive observers might be rigorously compared, it was necessary that the successive rods should invariably be set up on constant points, never on uneven surfaces. 'l'his was secured by driving a hemispherical brass brad in the head of each of the pins that were used for marking out the line of levels." The distances of the rods from the instrument were measured with a chain. They were invariably made of equal length, and at the time of the report (1862), when levels had been extended nearly 2 000 miles and over every kiud of countr~·, involving the occupation of U 000 stations, the rule I.tad not been transgressed in a single instance. In the field two or three observers went over a line with different instruments aud rods,.lmt all using the same pegs. '.l'l.te im;truments were carefully shielded from the sun, hut. seem to have been dismounted at every station. At an early period in this work the ever-present terror of' the leveler, "cumulative error," showed itself, awl as it hall been supposed that the refinemeut of the instruments and methods employed left no room for auy such difference, an<l Ute surveyors had no knowledge of the results which hacl perplexed earlier h1vestigators, this factor caused much anxiety and troublesome inYestigation. After the first season':> work an account of Professor "\Vhcwcll's tliscnssion of the line of levels run from the Bristol Cliaunel to the English Channel in 1837-38 for the British Association relieved the JJl(lian surveyors to some extent from the fear of unusual errors in their leveling. One of the means employed to overcome this trouble was running alternate sections in different directiorn~ by the two observers and beginning the observation,s alternately ·with the back and fore rod. When this method is m;ed, the black face is read first when the back rod is taken first, and the white face is read first when the fore rod is first taken.

REPORT !<'OH. 1893-PART II.

317

The rods are read to the third decimal place, and if, after· the leveling correction is applied, there is a difforeuce of <>-OOH of n foot i11 the results at a statiou, it must be releveled; aud if the discrepancy remaii1s, the first observer is recalled to remeasure the station, unless it :t})pears that the fore peg luu; been 1listnrl>ed, which would at once be shown by a corresponding change in the results obt.ainetl at the next station. All the results are nsed iu the fiiial computation. 'fhe heueh mnrks are stont1 posts which are put in tlie earth at average distances of about 10 miles. 'l'lw average daily rate of progress fi.>r each party is 4 miles in open, level country. TJ1e average annual out.put of woi:k is a54 miles of 1louble or treble line. The rods arn set up at distances of 8 to 10 chains (of links) from the instrument in the rnorniug and 4 to 5 chaim; later in the day. .A portable iron l.mr, whoso leugth is lrnown in terms of tho standard of the trigonometrical survey, is takeu in the field all(l compared at intiel'vals with the roils. In the German precise levels there has been no uniformity in type of instrument or rod used, altl10ugh it ·is worthy of note that, in common with the Swiss, Italiaus, li'rench, Dutch, Belgians, and English, wooden rods seem to be exclusively employed. In the precise levQ!iug iu t.he Elbe Yalley a11d i11 the li~ies from Swine· nmude (on the Ba.Itic) to .A.mstel'dam and to Lake Ooustanz instruments made by Breithaupt & Son were used. The diameters of the objectives were 42".1111 , the focal lengths were 4G0 111111 , and the value of one division of level for a le11gth of 2·21l 111111 was 5"·2. Glass diaphragms were used, and the iustrnmeuts had two eyepieces, allowing maguifyi11g power of 42 aud 82. 'l'he telescope rested on steel prisms and could be revolved about its axis, and could be changed eud for end. 'l'he level could also be changed end for end. The rods used were of wooll a.JHl of the type called by the Germans "reversible rods." One face was graduated from the bottom to the top and the other from the top down. The Germans have paid great atte11tion to the subject of the sinking · of the rods and instrument, and to variations in tbe relations of the telescope and level while the observations are being made at a statiou. The manner of readiug the rods and tl.te setting up of tbe instrument have been considered in relation to these possible disturbances. On the Elbe work, where an extremely elaborate method was adopted, the procedure at a station was as follows: First, the cross wires were directed to the front face of bqck rod a and reading taken and the level .ends read; second, front face of rod b read and level read; third, rear face of rod b read aud level reading taken; fourth, read rear face of rod b and the level. Then, after reversal of telescope and level, tl.tese were repeated, and the fifth operation corresponded to the third, the sixth to the fourth, the seventh to the first, and the eighth to the second. In setting up the .tripod it was deemed advis~ble to follow a regular lllan, in which it was provided that if the center leg of the tripod was

318

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

set up at station 1, point forward, at station 2 it should point ha()kwarcl, at statio.n 3 forward, and 11t station 4 backward again. This was intended to offset tlie clisturbances clue to the observer moving around tlle instrument. An iron metre bar which was compared with th~ 2!)0° 111 Herne Bar, the stauclard adoptecl for rocl comparisons for all the European precise leveling, was carriecl for regular daily comparisons. The rod was first con:1paretl for every single division error before going to the field, a11d after that the whole metre comparisons were com;idered su1Iicient to fiucl the daily variation in the rod lengtl1. The instrument used in the Prusflian work by Dr .·Jordan is of the Y type. The diameter of the o~jecti ve is 41 111111 and the focal length of the telescope is 420 111 ru; its magnifying power 30 11r11 · Box levels are used on the instrument and tripod for the first rough leveliug of the instrument. One level diYision of 2·26 111111 in length corresponded to 4"·1. 'rhe rod m;cd was a hollow wooden one, 3 111 long, 11""' wide, awl 3·Jcm in thiclrness. 'l'he di\·isions were in half centimetres (subdivided into JO parts), painted 011 the center of the face On one side of the marks were numbers, increasing from the bottom of the ro<l toward the top; on the other side the numbers increased from the top towanl the bottom. Small silver 1-1tubs were inserted, 011 the faces of which were drawn lines marking the eml of each metre. Each party was supplied with a 1ield standard, which was uio;e<l for making comparisons with the rod once or twice a day. This custom was iu.troduced in the German surveys in 1878, and is now the universal rule. 'fhe time required is but short, as Jorda11 claims it crm be done in five minutes daily. The maximum length of sight in .Tordan'R work wa1-1 50 111 , a11d benches were put in at every 2 000 111 · The lines were leveled in both direct;ions mid in the following mauner: If the line started at bench mark .1"and was carried to stubs a, l>, c, d, whe11 returning on the same day the work was ta.ken up at c and carried baek to .1'. 011 the next day it was taken up at <land carried fonvard as on the day before, but on the return the work was carried through to c. In an article in' the Zcitschrift fiir Vormessungswesen Dr .· Jordan gives as a sample of the rate of progress made by him the line from Germersheim-Bretten to Strassburg-Kniehis, 103·8 kilometres in length, and says it was leveled twice by him in twenty-seven days. 'rho party seems to have consisted of an observer, assistant, and two roclmen. Ilis experience showed that the leveling was more ra,pid with short sights than with long ones. By experiment he found that a half kilometre was leveled in 23·4 rniuutes when the instrument was set up ;;ix times and in 23·17 minutes when the instrument was set up seven times. In this line a very iuterestiug experience bearing upon one of the factors, that of Hinking, which enters into the matter of cumulative error, was encountered. Dr .·Jorclan in one day leveled a stretch of 6 kilome_tres, in which he established three bench marks. A light rain was

REPORT FOR 1893-P.A.RT II.

819

falHug at times and the seeing was particularly good. The reversed leveling on this stretch was made on a day when the road was firm and dry, and the difforence between the two ~easurements was 56mm, or 9.3mm per kilometre. The differences between the lines on the different bench marks were 23m 111 , 19 01 m, aud 14mm, all with the same sign. Another measurement showed that the second line was correct. This was, of course, an exceptional case, and Dr. Jordan thinks that± Jmm for this cau<>e would usually be an extreme value. The Swiss levels gave results which showed a probable value in their lines of ± 0·5mm7 aud Seibt's "\Veicbsel lc\·els gave a value of± 0·3 11" 11 for this error. In comparing the procedure of foreign countries with our own one is struck with the stress that is there laid upon frequent comparisons of their rods with standards of leugth. This is of course partly due to the fact that wooden rods (the French rod must be considered such, as the metal rules in it are only used for checking the length of the wooden section) a.re exclusively used. Still the experience of levelers abroad seems to be that this necessity for frequent comparison is not a serious object.ion to the use of the wooden rod, and there seems to be no disposition on their piwt to abandon its use or tO think its use inconsistent with obtaining the best results. In this conner:tion we may cite the results of Colonel Gonlier's experiments on wooden rods, which are given in Kal111ar's reports ou the results of European levels to the International Geodetic Association in 18!J3. 'They are: l. That the influence of temperature is 110t affected by the methods of preparation, and that for wood of the pi nus or coniferm varieties the rate of expansion is !J µ per metre per degree centigrade. 2. 1'hat of all woods the pine is least affected by moisture. '.l.'be effect of moistm:e is in the direction of the ve1·tical to the fibers. Boiling in oil has little effect in reducing the changes due to moisture, but a repeated painting with cold white lead reduces the variations consid'erably. The variation in length on account of moisture is proportional to the increase in saturation until 60 per cent is reached; after that, there is very little change for any degree of saturation above this. For painted pine wood rods the coefficient of expansiou per metre for 1 per cent increase in humidity amounts to J8p. As the rods may vary from - 50 C. to + 45° 0. in temperatnre, and the percent.age of saturation iimy change from ll> to n;, per cent in tlrn course of. the season, the gToss clrnuges for the first cause may be 450µ per metre and for· the second 810 JI. But these causes geuenilly a.ffeet the rod in opposite directions; when the moisture increases the temperature falls and vice versa, and experience has shown that the greatest differences do not exceed 500p. Lallemand furnish.es a table, which is published in the report referred to above, on pages 190 ood 191, giving the variations of six pairs of

320

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

rods tested in the years between 1884 and 18!)1. There are 28 sets, and the observations were made in each case on each set in the beginning of summer and at the end of fall or beginning of winter. Only in one case is there a difference between the maximum and minimum of any rods for a season reaching r;ooµ per metre. The a\·erage seems to be about 250,u. Captain Kalmar calls attention to the very ,important fact, that has been shown by the rcr.ords of the Jo'rench, Prussian, and Sweuish rod examination's, that the maximum or minimum values of rods used together i11 a season and. tested together were found to l>e attained in almost every case on the same days for l>oth roils. !Ieuce, there is no chance for the individuality (as he exprcssm1 it) of any rod of a pair militating against securing good results. In closing this sliort r1!sum:) of foreign methods and instruments,.it may l>e interesting to quote from the report of the International Geodetic Association the length of precii;:e le\"els in Enrope. It amounted to 102 800 kilometres at the end of 18!H. 'l'his i11clu1lcs no returns from Great Britain, and does not include Bourdaloni.i's levels in France, which are.now considered of_ the second order, or the old lines in Prussia and Belgium.
l'RJWISE LEVELS IN THE UNITED
STAT~<(,

In the surv<.w of the Great Lakes their elevation was determined by a coml>ination of water levels, wye levels, and precise levels. The bench mark at Greenbush, N. Y., on which this work depends, was determined l>y the Coast Survey in 18iiG-J7, but the accuracy of the determination would not at tliis date be regartled as satisfactory. Starting from Greenbush, two lines of wye levels (in the same direction) were run by different parties to Oswego. 'l'wo rods were used in each party. A limit of discrepancy between the two lines of tnmm i/Ti was established, and the accumulated discrepancy amounted to 0·293m in the 400 kilometres. From Oswego, N. Y., the elevation was carried by water levels across Lake Ontario to Port Dalhousie, Canada, and thence to Port Colborne by precise levels; thence across Lake Erie to Gibraltar, Mich., by water levels; thence to Lakeport by precise levels; thence across J_,ake Hnron and as far as Escanal>a, on Lake Michigan, l>y water levels, and. thence to Marquette, Mich., by precise levels. The precise levels referred to al.love may be described as follows: Kern levels.-Wooden rods graduated to O·Ol m; position of three horizontal wires were read on the rod, estimating to O·OOlm; sights equal within 1om and did not exceed lOOm. Correction applied to rod reading for collimation, inclination, irregularity of collars, and absolute length of rod. Two lines in the same direction by two independent parties; two rods were used in each party. The agreement is generally very good. The limit of tolerance was fixed at ,5rnm and afterwards . increased to lOm·n vlC: These lines are all short, but they show the

vie

REPORT .FOR 1893-PAH.T II.

321

gradual a,ccumula.tiou of error or divergenco of the lines which so generally accompauy levels of precision. It was assnmed that tho mean lornl of Lakes Huron a11d Michigan was identical from May HI to August 31, 187ii. A theoretical discussion was 11iade of tlie condition existing at tlui narrow junction of the two lakes and a deduced correction applied. In tho survey for the improniment of the )lississippi Hiver an exten:,;i ve. system of precise levels has been exe<mted. From N cw Orleims to Greenville the work was done by the Coast and Geodetic Survey fot· the Mississipi>i Hiver Commissio11, a.nd is folly described in Appendix No.11 to Report for 1888. From Greenville they were extended by the Co1i11nission 11orth to St. Louis, and thence to Savaima, Ill., alo11g the river, all(l thence along the railroad to Chicago. From Savauua a line was carried alo11g- t.he river to St. Paul, and t11euce by railroad to Duluth, whi!I~ a li11e al011g the Jl.fissouri l{iver connects St. J,ouis with Kansas City arul Sioux City. Various details in the· methotls were changed from time to time, but in geueral the following description applies: Kan level.~.-W oo<lcn rods graduated to 0·01 111 and re:ul hy their wires fo 0·001 111 (estimated); 110 target; kept vertical by circular level; foot plates and pins, but in general foot plates; spur on base of rod some· times a plane surface supportl'd on a spherical k11ob in a socket on the plate, and. nt other times :i spur e11di11g in a rounded point supported in a socket on plate. Cobelnsion l'caclwd: "If bnt one kind of s1ipport is to be u:<ed nnder all conditions, foot plates are preferaulc." Linr.~.-l n general two lines in opposite directions by different observers. 'l'e11ts wern used to shade arul protect the iust.rnment. Observittions mma.lly made from G to 8 a. m. and from + to 7 p. m., and never during the middle of the day except i11 cloudy weather. Corrections applied to rod readi11gs for i11clination, collimation, inequality of collars, and absolute length of rod. Progress about 3 kilometres per working day. Cost.-Biloxi to N cw Orleans, 87 miles, $32 per mile; Keokuk to Fulton, .lil mile~, $1U per mile; not given for other parts of li11e. Au elaborate mathematical <liscm1sio11 of the results has been made by Assh-·tant ~11gi11eer h L. Wheeler, who deduced the following conclusions : 1. The results of leveling may be affected by cumulative errors, which vary with different observers and do not always remain constant with the same observer. 2. The mean of several results obtained by the same or different observers may require a considerable corroctio11. 3. That these cumulative errors are nearly proportional to the distances leveled and in some cases are independent of the nature of the ground, the direction in which the work is done, the season, or the manner of supporting the rods.
S. Ex. 19, pt. 2-21

322

U. S. COAS'l' AND. GEODETIC SURVEY.

4. That in order, so far as possible, to eliminate the effect of such errors each observer should duplicate his own work in opposite directions under the same conditions. 5. That long lines of levels, even if leveled in duplicate, should be irnlisputably checked. Mr. \Vheeler also 11iscusses personal errors of different observers in a very elaborate manner, aml assigns the following values for those engaged on the work: Personal errors of a single observation.T. A. Paige

+ 4·27
4·14
2·(i(i

mm.

A. D. I?ro:-;t E. II. Sankey .T. R. ,Johnson

:J·07

(See pages 2551 and 2552, Heport Chief of Engineers, 1884.) \Vhile we may not iudorse these co11clusions, they seem. to be very importaut in com;idering the character and accuracy with which the work was done, as they are the deliberate utterances of Olle who helped make the obscn'ations and afterwards discussed the results. 'l'he instrurne11ts a11d methods used i11 the Coast Survey are described in Appendixes N os.15 and lG, Ifoport for 187n. 'l'his metlloll of observing has been followed since the beginning and the instruments at present in trne are t\ssentially the same, but many of tlte details.have been changed, as experience suggested. Weight of instrnrneut, 23 pounds. The glass diaphragm has beeu replaced by spider Jines. The vertical axis is now entirely above the tripod head. 'l'he level vial rests upou two points at either end in its inclosiug tube and is held in position by a spring bearing on a third point at each end. The stridiug level is so constructed that it will bear witl1 equal weight on each collar. Zylonite bands have been placed on the telescope, so that it can be revolved without touching the metal with the hands. A millecl rubber head and zylonite reading head have been placed 011 the micrometer screw. The brass scale on the rolls is secured to the brass bol'IS at their halie and left free to expand upward only. 'l'he thermometers havu been attached to and brought, by means of br:tss filings, in metallic contact with tile back of the brass scale near its center, and are read through an opening cut in the wood, which is closed by a brass slide. In determining inequality of collars the telescope is adjusted so that it will bear with equal weight on each wye. The fidd procedure has from time to time been as follows: 1. Simultaueous double line in one direction by the same observer. 2. Simultaneous double line, alternate sections in opposite directions, by the same observer. 3. Simulta11eous donhle lines in one direction in sectiou."> hy different observers.

REPO!t'l' FOR 18!13-PAH'l' ·II.

323

4. Si11gle lineH with two rods in opposite directions Ly the same observer. 5. Single lines with two rods in opposite directio11s by different observers. 'l'he prese11t method is a simultaneous double liue by the same observer in one direction, with a (proposed) similar check line in the opposite direction. ·with these exceptions, the description in tlw appendix referred to still avplies. The limit of error adopted is 5111111 To suspeud work d·uring the middle of the <lay was the exception and not the rule. In 18!1'.3 an elabomte !5eries of experiments were undertaken under the personal direction of the Superintendent to iuye:,;tigat.e our system of leveling as well m; the instruments employed. 'l'hese have not been finally discussed, bnt they have resulted in valuable suggestions of a practical nature. Uertaiu errors, the causes of which are still uncertain, remain nneliminat.ed. lmpro\'elllents in the appliances a1·e pro: posed, and it appears particularly desirable that the qualifications of an observer he thoroughly test.ell before b(·i11g i11t1·ui;trn.l with work of this class.

v1':

RIWENT WOltK WI'l'li '!'HE l.:NGlNBEit'S PRECISE LEVEL.

Few opport1rnities offer in this cmmtry for direct comparison between the "wye level" a11d the ''geodetic level," the latter having been exclusively used upo11 closed circuits of tl1c highest order; but the unexpected accordance in tl1e (loubl,1 line of 200 miles of State work between Boston and All.mny rnn by a11 assistant of the Coast and Geodetic Survey with the wye level (luring the past season, the close agreement at Springfield between the tidal pla11es brought by 99 miles of this work from Boston with that brought hy the B11gi11eer Corps line from Long Island Sound, together with the result.s from many trialR of the two types over the tcs.t circuit at \Yashington, while inconclusive, all point to a lligh degree of precision with the wyc level. On the li11e between Boston and Albany above referred to an iustrumeut .which has bmrn named the "engineer's precise wye level," designed by Buff and Berger in 18fl~-!I:{, was nscd, which may be thus described: A wye Jovel resting in a cradle suspemled upon au axis at ceuter of instrument; micrometer screw with opposing spring undei· eye end of cradle. Telescope :38 111111 (lz inches) clea1· aperture, 3gcm (15 inches) focal length, Steinheil inverting eyepiece power of 35. Value of one division of the level (2 111111 ) equals 7". Rods, wooden, made of white pine, T-shaped, impregnated with paraffin, graduated to foet and hundredths, lower ends a flat shoe of hard steel, target with vernier reading to thousandths of a foot, cross levels on rod. The party consisted of one observer, one bubble tender, auu two roume11; instrument protected by lu1·ge umbrella. j uouble

324

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

simultaneous line in ouc direction along a railroad; back and fore sight kept equal l>y counting rails; tnrning i>oints, round-headed spikes; bubble kept in center; instrumental adjustments tested one or mor:e times a day. The termirial benches were at nearly the same elevation. 'fhe summit elevation passc1l over was 1 ·W8 feet. 'Vhile the two line.; cross aml recroi?s each other many times, they only at one point departed by as much as l'.! and are only;~""" apart at the final l>ench mark. The 322 kilometres of douhle line cost, including salaries and all other expeuses, less than 8:i.50 per kilometre; and iii a letter addressed to the chairman, publishecl in the J\lassachuset-.ts Topographical Survey Report of 18U3, Dr. Mendenhall says:
111111

I haY(l exami11c(\ with ;.:reat. i11torcHt tlw prolile of the line of ll'Yd8 recently rnn bBtwccn Boston, -:\lass., an<l Albau~·, ?\. Y. Tllo agrecrne11t: hetwcon tho two i;im11lta11eo1111 liucl! is remarlrnhly elosc, giving c\'i<le11co that the whole is irn excellent piece of work. I ha,·e rccc11tly tested the i11Htrnmeut awl method used :rn<l tlrn rcs11Jt, iH f!nch as to gh·c mo great co111i(lcncc i11 tlw li11<'. ~ I <lo 11ot hcli«:n~ :tH lo11g a lino haH ever heforo beon rn11 combining Ho high a degreo of accuracy with so Hmall a cof!t.

The wye level ii; useu by Dr. ,Jorda.11 in the Prm;si~i.rr work, aJHl Professor Boersch, who ltas had much expeL"iencL\, after a careful discussion of the precise methods, say;; (Zeit1;cl1rift fiir Vermm;sungswesen):
From all of tho afore8:1i<l it appear.· that with the cxpon<liture of grcnt, care, labor, and cost no better results, hut. 011ly the ap1u,arance of a Ho-called HCientilic treatment of tho subject, can ho shown. The simpler the metho<I of ohson·at.io11, an<l t.lrn fewer the figures required "-ithont decreaf!i~g tho accurnc,v, th" hettcr rcsult8 ono will obtain and tho lc8S will 0110 ho oxpof!cd to observatio11 :uul compntatio11 nrrorH. It ronwi11s, therefore, al wa~·f! prnforahle in fie](! ohHcn·atiowi wlwro tho tripod i~ use1l to employ huhhlcH which <01110 to rest., arnl which, <l11ri11!! the. poi11ti11;.: 11po11 tho roll through t.he t.descope, can h" 111aiut.ai11n<l in tho middle of t.lw ](\\'Ol Hcalo by nu ordinai·~- assif!tant, whOR(l 1;cr\'ices ar" roq1tircd a11~·wa~·.
0

The same author, in tho tender":

Ha me

wor·k, 1my.s in regard to a "lmhl>IC

IL only renu·i11~, after what. has h<'"ll ~ai<l 0 io prod<le an addit.ioual observer for tho reading of tho lcYel. Tlwrn will alwa~·H h" a rnau a111011~ tlw lahoreri; cmplo~·ml in the work who can ho traiiwd to keep i11 tlw 111itldle the hnl>hle of t< leHR scnHith-o Im·el, boi;idcs perforrninl-{ the <lnti(l~ of an inHtrnmcut (·arrier.

Ile also objects to a mirror on tlie ground of parallax and strain to the observer's eyes. Ju a later numiJer of this publicatio11 the following appears:
Professor l\ocrsch :ul vo<'aks · the nae of a Recond ussiHtnnt for ten cling the huhble dnrinl-{ t.!10 ohHctTation 011 tlw roil. In this, one iA fren from tlw hypot.hcsi8 that tho moYcnumt of tho instrnmont iH l'roportioual to tlrn t imo of tho ohson·at.ious. This 1ll(lt,ho1l was llHe<l i11 th" BaYaria11 lenilinl-{ when the wiud wns 11igh.

The writ.er t)1e11 calls attentiou to the effect upo11 the level i11 the cliang-e of c-enter of gravity of the observer while lcveliilg, even though he does not "change the position of his feet"·

REPORT l!'OR 1E!J3-PAHT IT.
DE'J'ACUEI>
POINT~.

325

Altl10ugh for the determi11ation of <liffere11ces of elevation no method preseuts itself which equals in precisiou that of the more delicate forms of lcveli11g rnstrnmc11ts, there are others which for the determination of tbe olcvatio11s of detached points offer decidc<l auva11tages, and some of which produce results of a degree of accuracy sufficient to meet many of the ol>jccts fnr which data of this class are sought. 'l'hese are included under two heads, vii: 1. By a11gks of elevation a11d devrcssion of points between which the dista11ce is known; and 2. By ol>servations of the relative p1·cs:mre of the atmosphere. 'l'he first lrnve mamly been cmplo,ycd iu counection with schemes of triangnlatio11 which, consisting of li11us of k11ow11 length co11necting intervisible poi11ts, offer the mo::it farnrahle co11ditio11s. When the absolute· difference in elevation betwe('ll the instrument aud any otber visible point is k1iowu, and all tbe objects to be ol>served are in nearly the i;;ame horizoutal plane, they may he 1leterrninc1l with a good degree of accuracy hy means of micromctric 1lifferences, tlw value of the results depending upon the accuracy of tlw pointing, stability and perfection of adjustment of the instmment a111l tlHl difference of refnwtioll in auy two Jines at the time of their observation. In the cases of objects beyoud the range of the micrometer screw, or when the elevation of only 011e point is kuow11, recourse must be had to the vertical circle for the detcrmi11atio11 of the douhlB zenith distance or to the spirit level in connection with a vertical arc for tl1e measurement of the a11gle of elevation or depression. Jn either of thmm cases errors of graduation, etc., and the uncertainty in amouut of vmtieal refraction must be added to t11ose mentioned as aft'ecting the results from mierometric differences. While the very excellent experiments alrea<ly made for the determi, nation of vertieal refraction have taught geotlesists much, they sen·e rather to point out tbc great changes to which it is subject than to give conti<leuce in our ability to apply au adequate corl'ection. The probable errol' i11 the determination of a si11gle poiut, as deri,·e1l from the adjustment of large figures, is still considerable, raugiug from 0·:3!l 111 to 2·95m; yet the law of compens~ttion seems to hold goou, u.11d tlte difference in elevation between widely separated terminals, as 1leten11i11ed hy vertical augles extending through a scheme of tria11gnlatio11, differs bnt little from the i·esults liy the more precise methods. We may cite the work across Califomia, :N" evada, and Utah, sornn eight figures, covering about 1 000 or 1100 kilometres, where the height of Ogden, as tletermiucd by trigonometrical leveling (double ;mnith distances on ten or more days at each statiou), agrees with that deriveu by Ga1111ett from railway level~ within ·1·27"', ond that acros~1 tlic Sbtt' of Xew

326

U. S. COAST AND Gl,WDETIC SURVEY.

York from Albany to Oswego, six figm·es, covering some 240 kllometres, where tlle difference in elevation as determined by the trig·onometrical method (observations on some five days at each station) agrees with the result of the double line of levels by the United States Engineers within ~.37rn_ Colonel Walker (Vol. I, p. 103, H.eport G. 'r. S. of India, 1870) gives t11e following resnlts of compari:;ons between spirit levels and trigonometrical heig·l1ts derived through long chains of triangles, viz:
From Karachi to Attok, Altok to Dehra Doon, Dohrn Doon to Sironj, Karachi to Sironj, Sircmj to Calcutla, 706 miles, difference - 3·2 feet 416 " -1-5·1 429 " +I ·8 669 " 2·1 680 " ·-4·6

+

All of these examples are from mountain work; in the first case with points of great elevation allll extremely long lines and in the latter points of moderate height and lines of moderate leugth. In both results the eftect of differences of refradion and error from deflection of the plumb line remaius. On the39th parallel trigonometrical survey in western Missouri occurs a case which offers a particularly good opportunity for the examination of results in a rolling country. In that work the !Scheme coincided so nearly with the transcontinental line of precise levels that nine consecutive points, covering some 1.85 kilometres and forming the northern line of the !-icheme, were lletermiuecl with the !Spirit level, and a comparison of the results by the two methods shows at no point a difference of more than O·um and a final error between terminals of only 0·3 111 · In this work the practice was to observe on five days at each station the double zenith distances of two points, and the difference in elevation between these all(l between all other visible points was determined hy micrometric differences measured on six days. In computing, the micrometric differences seem to have been taken as a standard and the zenith 1listances made to conform to them. The methods and instruments to be adopted in .this class of work will depend upon the degree of accuracy sought, and this upon the objects to which the results are to be applied. It would appear from what has gone before that any of the methods mentioned produce results suflicientl;r accurate for the use of the geographer, and the better ones for the determination of bench mark:; for the topographer. 'l'o what extent they may in the future be required or applicable to the elucidation of physical problems does not appear; but 1-1i11ce the difference in cost as between tlrn rough and refined methods will rarely amouut to more than 1 per cent of the expense of field opera· tions of parties in which vertical measul'Cs constitute a very iuconsiclerable part of the duty, it would seem to be good policy to mai11tai11 a Btandard high enougll to meet any reqmremeuts of the future.

REPORT

FOl~

18!1:{-PAR'l' H.

327

The determination of differe11ce8 of elevation by observations of atmospheric prl-1Ssure is often convenient, and at times tl.ie ouly method available. The results from a limite1\ number of ohsm'vatious for wiuely separated points ean not, however, be depende1l upon within some hundreds of feet, and in a monntaiuous country are very unreliable for even moderate distances. 'l.'his is aside from errors of observation of plleuomena within om· reach, which, with our present instruments and knowledg·e. are very great, and n.rh;e from atmosvhcric disturbances of a more or Jess local nature, the cornlitiorn; in neighboring valleys rarelybci11µ: the same, :tll(l during rapid changes often very different 011 difforcnt i;Jopes and i11 different. parts of the same valley. As pointed out by Ferrel,· a cyclonic disturhauce 11ot ;;nfficient to amount to :t stol'm may pmduce a variation in the barometric gradient betwee11 points a fow humlre1l miles apart amonuting· to 100 feet or more, and vVilliamson's co1111mtathms of the difference of daily results fo1; elevation dnril1g the yea,r 18G2 lletweeu St. BPrmu·1l and Geueva (some 50 kilometres) show errors as great as <HJ for a si11g-le dity, the determination aftPr forty years of most careful olJser,·atio11s uwler M. Plantamour being '..Vi'"' in error. 'J'he re;mlts from careful observations in this conutry, ranging from one to six years, give resulting errors or from LG to :H feet, but with contrary Higns, so that there seems 1w reason to doubt the com;tants used in the reductio11s, It behooves ns, however, to consi1ler the relative degree of accura.cy of the several instruments employed for the purpose a.Jl{l the degree and conditions of thefr usefulness. 'l'Jwre are a few rules whicll apply when only a limited number of observatio11s can he taken, whatever instrument is used, and which should be borne in mind by the observer, viz: Observations should he made at sucli hours as give most nearly tlie mean temperature of the day, or, better, of the month. Observittions should not be taken when there is fog or mist. In computing results it is desirable to use the 11ormal temperatnre of the vicinity of the lower station if obtainable. 'l'he observations -shonlll be si111111tu11eous when practicable. 'rbe mercurial barotneter in its most improved form was probal1ly until a late <late tlie most snitable i11strume11t at our comnHtJHl for the determination of attnoi,;phere pressure, aud from its simplicity and the en.se of its manipnlatiou mtrnt alwnys btl a fiworite, I.mt for work in u, rough country the extreme care required in trans1>orting- it is a sPrious drawback. 'rhe marked ad vauco in our know ledge of tlwrmornctry within the last decade, however, suggests possibilities from observations of tlw boiling point which equal and may surpiu;s· iu accuracy
111

~Seo Von .Jord11n: "Vorgloich zweior 8ie1lo-Thormomotcr mit Quoclrnill>Pr-Baromotor," Zeit~chr1ft fiir Iustr11111enten k1111do, .J:ihrg. 1890, S. a.n-:H7. !Iorucr "Sh><hi Thermometer mid Quecksilbor 8nromoter," Zeitschrlft fllr Verwossuugswc1mu, Btl 21 (1892), 8. 30-31.

328

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the results obtained with the barometer, and in view of the greawr portability of the apparatus reqmred it seems desirable that its use be encouraged. The aneroid barometer is essentially portal>le, but unfortunately this is true only as regards the integrity of its several parts and not of' the instrument as a whole, since, while it will survive very rough. usage, the relations of its parts nre so easily 1.hsturued as practically to produce a ditlerent instrument. 'rhe magnitude of these changes, and the tendency of the parts to resume given relations, differs very widely in aneroids from the saine maker and intended to be of the same class. This results from mechanical defects, but so minute and so hard to trace that to correct them would magnit)' the cost of' construction beyond all bounds. Thus it happens that one which gives excellent results in the comparing room may prove utterly worthless in the :field. It is, lwwever, so extremely useful foi· purposes of reconnaisfiance that it well repay:-; the labor bestowed in testing it under the conditiom; actually occurring in the field work on which it is intended to be used. With a, well-selected imitrnment, carefully handled, profiles may be traced in a moderately flat or rolling country with suflicient accuracy for all purposes of rec01111aissa11ce; and how well it may be relied upon for the determinatwn of acci<le11ts of surface where ·a sullicient number of controlling points am available is amply shown by very cltanwteristic topographic maps produced by this metltml by the Geological Survey. In concludiug- this report, and afte1· examining accounts of work. of the various kinds and in the several countries referred to, your committee beg to present the following as their conclusions, viz: '.rhat trigonometric heights, when observed dul'i11g tlie hours of minimum vertical refraction and urnler varying atmospheric conditions, can be obtained with a suflicie11t deg1·ee of accuracy to make them valuable for many purposes, and, when not impracticahle, their determination should form part of the work at all triangulation stations. For this pnrpose there is suggested a new form of instrument or tmch changes or additions to those now in use ar-; will permit of the measurement of micrometric differences of larger arcs tha11 is possible with the micrometric eye piece attached to our theodolites, arnl of the convenient use of a delicat-0 level iu connection with it. '.rl111 gradienter as now constructed seems i11 a great measure to fullill the requirements for short lines, but the optical power is too low for use over 1011g ones, and other improvements seem possible. , That with modem t.hermometers and methods the atmospheric pressure may be determined by observations of the boilmg point with a ]n·ecision eqria.l, if not superior, to that obtained with the less portable mercurial mon11tai11 barometer, and for purposes of exploration their use is recommended. That the standa~'(l bench marks throughout the country Rhould be determined with the greatest degree of accuracy attarnable.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' It.

32!'.l

That ~mbsidiary lines may be leveled by less precise methods. That if upon investigation it shall appear that less elaborate methods or instruments than those now employed on the Surv~y will by the use of small circuits produce satisfactory results, with an increase of economy, purely theoretical considerations shonld not prevent their adoption. That the leveling instruments at present in use 011 the Survey seem as perfect as any yet devised, but the use of prisms liy which the level may be read without removing the eye from the eyepiece appears to be desirable, and we would recommend that one or the French instruments to which they have been applied be procured for experimental purposes. 'l'hat the level should have a value of al>0ut 2" to a millimetre. That a watch level or some other device is 1lesirable to facilitate the preliminary rough leveling of the instrument. That the rods be frequently compared in the field with a standard. That if, as seems possible, wood, can to a great degree be protected against hygTometric changes, it is preferable to metal for leveling rods. vVe recoh1me11d a plane surface for the terminal of the rods, and the use of fo@t pfotes with hemispherical centers for supporting the rods, and retaining walls to prevent any undue lateral movcmeut. The scale, if of metal, shoul<l be proteeted from rapid changes of temperatnrc dne to varying position. It shouM be thin enough to respond quickly to changes in ternpemtnre, of a form that will secure the requisite rigidity, and so arranged as to be readily compared with a i;;tandard. If wooden rods are to be used, the nieasnring portion should be carefully selected, homogeneoui;, straight-grained, thoroughly seasoned wood of the piuus family. It. should be carefully impregnated with paraffin and perfectly coated to protect it from moisture as far as possible. It should be so attached to the supporting rod as to secure proteetion from abrasion of the surfaces and with an air space sufficient to prevent direct con tact or the harboring of moisture. Certain of the graduations might he marked by lines on metal pins embedded in the Woou. 'rhe face of the rod should be over the center of support. The target, if one is used, and its advisability seems questionable, should travel as nearly as may be along a line passing through the center of support of the rod, and carry a vane by which the observer at the instrument may assure hiim;elf of the rou's verticality. The rod level slwuld be placed at ang'les of 4i:i 0 with the face of the rod and as near together as possible. Notes on ohservetl cases of' abnormal refraction in lines passiug near the ground, which emphasize the possibility of errors from this source, are given hrlow.
FRANK ,,. ALLEY PEI~KINS. Chafrma·n.

F. A.

YOVNG,

Secretary.

330
:\IE:.\IOl~AN lllTM

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
FOH '.!'HE USE OF 'l'IIE <'O:\DII TTEE ON
UYl'SO:'tm'l'l~

'i.

I offel' the following eviue11ces of local refract.ion close to the surfal'e of the grouud, belie\"iug tltat 011e of the principal sources of errors in leveling arises from that condition.
Sa11 P1,<lro IJaBt! Line-1859.

In measuring this base an aligning flag was sent forward about 200 yards~ anu in tr~·i1tg to place it in line it appeared :tll(l disappeared anu changed place in sooh a curious and irregular ma1111er that I personally went forward to ascertain the cam;e. As I approached, the flag- that [ had seen disappeared, a11d it was lying upon the grou11d a11cl hall bee11 during the confused signals. The ai<l had misunderstood my signals, which he said were very coufusing, and hau stepped aside. As I returned to the base the ilag again reappeared in the air to the hei~ht of about 4 or 5 feet. On these plains, in the preceding December, I bad witum;sed remarkable effects of mirage at mill1lay. On the base-line site at Port 'l'owuseml, i11 1854, a tar~ct 4 fret H<pmre, staudiug on the grou11d, was appareutly raii'led by local refraction more thau its lJCight, as seen from a clil'ltance of 250 yards.
}·010

Ra8c Line-1881.

\Vhen the party was going out to work one morning there was a beau· tiful exhibition of mirage ahead of n:-;, wherein all objects were lifted up into the air. vVe drove int:> and through this warm stratum of air, and when i1t it saw the mirage effeets all around us.
LoH Angele· JiaHe Linc-1889.

In driving to work we fre(p1e11tly came into streaks of quite warm air and then into streakH of quite cold air. On different mornings, in passing over the Rame depressions, the temperatures were not relatively the same.
,San J·)·anci.·co.

On some of the streets of San Francisco the exhibition ot' mirage is so marked tbat it has been illustrated in the 11ewspapers. And UJlOll Washingt..m street, near the Lafayette Park Astronomical Station, where the block is nearly level, with a decline at each cud, I frequently see the mirage along the whole block a:-; my li11e of vision reaches the height of the street. 'rhcre ci1u be no doubt that such conditio11s woulll give very wild leveling results; and it naturally suggests that abnornml conditions of the surface layer of' air may not be visible, yet the effects be inimical to g-oo(l results.
GEOIWE DAVIDSON.
FEHRUARY

11, 1894.

U.S. Coast aru:l Gcodetu; SurYeyReporl

,k I
I

ro,. J893 _'Fbrlll

General Scheme of' Standard LeYels !Or the Un-i_ted Stales .

r

90'

··

\

_ln \

..

To Report or Geodelic Con.fereru::e _ No . 1:3

I
,.
-~
\'l;

~
(.,

\

Q

-1(:

\J .
_ .

~

-<#.....

I r-1 --· I
~
r:-:
I

>

I
'\'

.....

~

"'
________,_

~~
"'
0
I'"'\

: I

y --

·~ 1
~

~~ · s ··· ~
'

.,.
Sur-J"<J'

I-fl

,
,$--.

1''

+-

G t1 ·
,,
(\

L

~·

()

/"

.,..

;If

]!.'

x

I.

<V
\

~-..~~~·~ .
d

f f.~'-i'.Coost <rflAl Geodetit~

1'f'. JVtJrtdc11,ltall, .'i1t1wrtnt.cndert.l

lJase ,\fap of'tlw Unitc:d Stal.J?s
( P··oj('Cl ed on 1ntcr-..ec t1ng conPl

,._

lll93
~HU vi I" M t l~ ">
... ~o · ~"--

q
,i::--.....

.~

..·

--

-.-..'-~-·

o M .. ~t(t

.._

~AA

K1 lom i·t.-.. I!.
~....
kHA

..x .. ..
_,

- -------·---'-----·

-L..... _ _ ' " " -

~

J
Finished work P r oposed

~o~

I

er··
c:

G:;.:1
~

\
Ph<'fo-LHh by A f/ 0 1':N&· cc;
B.11t1 1

A1d

REPOR'l' J<'OR }893-PAHT II.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE F, ON ALASKA.

331

The extraordinary growth of this but partially explored territory;· with its valuable resources 011 land and the almost limitless wealth in its waters, demands greater attention than bas heretofore been accorded it and makes it imperative that general and compreheusive aids to its navigation and commerce be supplied. This vast region contains abqut 600 000 square miles, being about twelve and a half times the area of the State of :New York. It has approximately 26 000 miles of shore line, which exceeds that of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf coasts hy over 11200 miles, while tho islands along its coast are estimated to be 1100 in munber. A course parallel with the trend of its sliore from Cape l\iuzon, its most southerly point, to Point Barrow, its most northerly one, is about 2 800 miles. '.rlie Aleutian chain of islands is about 1100 miles long·, allll Attu, the 1nost westerly one of this group, is al>0ut 2 200 miles west of Sitka. '!'here are immense forests in Alaska, densely covering every part of the co1mtry and climbing steep mountain sides to heights of 2 000 and ~ ·100 feet above sea level, and which extend as far west as Kadiak Island, being n. continuous stretch of a thousand miles. 'l'bey consh1t mainly of spruce, hemlock, and cedar, one variety of the latter, the yellow, being very valuable in the construct,iou of small ve:-;seh; on account of its durable qna.lities. 'L'lie commerce of Alaska is, and doubtless always will be, carried on hy water, owing to the peculiar formation of the country; and being so varied and largely conducted by nonresidcuts a11d by vessels hailing from so many different ports, it is difficult to ol>tain an exact idea of its exteut. 'l'he intemal commerce is canied 011 throng h about 126 agencies, located in 104- towns and settlements situated along its coast an<l among its islands. 'fhe exports consist mainly of furs, i\'ory, Indian curios, gold and silver bullion and ore, and the product:,; of the whale, cod, and salmon fisheries. During the earlier occupancy of t.lw country its commerce depended almost exclusively on the fur trade; but sinceotlier i11dustriesdependent upon the actual nec~~ssities of man P.prang np; this im.portant factor, although of great value, has already fallen to a third place i11 importa11ce. From 1868 to 18!:11 the total value of the furs exported is estimated at $50 124 !JOO, and the annual yield for the last-mentioned year amounted to about $1 GO!i 000. ln 1892 there were sixteen gold au<l silver mines ir1 operation, a11d up to that date the total output amou11tecl to about $11000 000. 'l'he traflic depell(lent upon the necessitie!> of t.he small army already eugag·ed in this comparatively new enterprise is considerable, and will undoubtedly increase. The salmon industry commenced in 1878, and from that date up to 1890 the pack had amounted to $9 Gl2 000. In 1878 the entire product

332

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

was valued at $59 4Hi, while that of 1890 'vas $2 731. 000. '.l'be salmoncanning industry of this country is confined to tlie waters of Californht, Oregon, 'Vashiugton, and Alaska. In years past the Columbia River has been tho principal source of supply, but the run in all the o;eetions south of British Columbia has become smaller from year to year. In· the year 1887 tile total pack for the entire Pacific Coast was 969 200 cases, of which the Columbia Hiver famished 430 000. In 1890 the output of the western coast Wa8 about l 223 955 cases, of which Alaska aloue furnished 688 822, or more than h:1lf the entire product of the United States. The capital invest<~d i11 the Alaska salmon fisheries, including permanent improvements, vessels,. etc., is something more than $4 000 000. 'l'bere were, in 1800, 37 canneries between Dixon Entrance and Bristol Bay (2;) of which are west of Sitka), and about 6 000 persons were employed <luring the fishing season, usin~ 66 vessels for the purpose. Judging from the rate of increase during the past ten years and the enormous field yet. to IJe developed, tlw couuncrce depending upon this single industry will IJc one of the most notable interests of the Pacific Coast. '.l'hree-fourths _of it is now beyond the region reconnoitered, and is rapidly crowding northward into uncharted localities euormously rich in fish. It is i11tercsti11g to uote that the two ne\\'er industries, mining and salmon fisl1ing·, have grown so rapidly that while in 1880 both these iudul'ltries were i11significa11t :md completely overshadowed by the fur trade, by 1800 their products amounted in value to $15 000 000, or more than twice the purchase price of the territory. The Pacitic aud Arctic whaliug catch, though 11ot confine1l strictly to Alaskau waters, is conducted by American vessels, and all but a very small vercentag·e of it is secured in waters contiguous to the Alaskan coast. The total value of oil, bo11e, aud ivory of tl1e catch between lSH aud 1890 was $1l 20J 46f>. There are about 50 vessels engagccl in this industry, their port of call being Port Clare11ce. The charts of the tracks and rendezvous of these vessels are simply courpilations of early explorationsi very crude all(l i 11a1:<'urate. · Of the food fish of Alaska, the codfish stand next. in commercial importa11ce to the salrno11. 'l'he eastern part of Beriug Sea is 11 great reservoir of cod, and the area withiu the limits of 50 fathoms depth is no less than 18 000 square miles. In this sea fishing must be done, as it is oft' Newfoundla11d, without harbon; of refuge, but in a much less depth of water. 'l'hc lishing banks along the south shores of the Aleutian chain will add auout ,~5 000 more square miles, making a total of 63 000 square miles, this being about four times the area of the banks in the region of N cwfonndland. Though over twm1tyyears have elapsed since the inception of thiH iudustry, it rnm;t still be considered in its infancy. 'l'he value of the catch during the last twenty-seven years .has amounted to about $8 900 000. It is carried on without regard to the abundant supply, but solely in accordance with the demands of the local and limited market on the Pacific coast of America.

REPORT FOR 18H3-PART IT.

333

It is evident, with tlie numerous transcontinental railways, with the increasing population along· their lines and growing tributaries, that the demand will constantly a111l permanently increase, so that this interest will alone crowd the waters of the Gulf of Alaska and Bering Sea with sails. The shores contiguous to these fishing grounds and the waters covering them arc imperfectly and incorrectly delineated on the compiled charts, handed down tons principally from the early Hussian explorers, and should be corrected to conform with the demands of modern navigation at as early a date as possible. Althon~h the fishing for halibut, herring, etc., is at present only fOl' local consumption, these industries are capable of wonderful development. The value of merchandise shippe1l to Alaska from Pacific Coast ports from 1868 t-0 1890 amounted to $1i'i 5H4 086, while during the same period the exports amounted to $71) 213 U~9. During 1880 the merchandise received from Pacific Coast ports was valued at $4{i3 226, while during 1890 it amounted to $1 03ii 4U4, l"howiug a gain of nearly 300 per ceut in amount in ten years. During the period from the time of its purchase, i11 181i7, to 1890 a conservative estimate of the value of products shipped from this detached territory was about ten and 011c-half times the price paid for it. It is regrettable that our sources of information for la.te Alaskan statistics are confined to the lJrief summaries of tho governor's reports, and that for a comprehensive study of all the wealth-prorluciug industries of the territory we have to go to tlie publications of tbe census for 1890. Tltere was considerable interest in this new territorr at the time of its purc1iase from Rnssht by the treaty of June, 1867, a11d Secretary Scwar1l arranged for a geographical reconnaissance in the summer of that year nnder tho charge of the Coast Survey, from which the first Uoast Pilot of southeastern Alaska was compiled. '£his work included only the more important points from Dixon Entrance to Unalaska. With the exception of the astronomical work of 18GH and a rough reconnaissance by a smal11)arty it'i western Alaska during the summers of 1871, 1872, 1873, arnl 1874, nothing of' importance was accomplished until 1882, when a trigonometric and hydrographic reco1111aissance of the inland waters of southeastern Alaska was commenced, and, with the exception of one year, this has been coutinued during the summer months to the 'present time. In the summer of 18!)2 the longitude of Sitka was very satisfactorily determined (cbrouometrically) as a base station, and during- that and the succeeding years four other points were equally well determined from it for the international boundary work in the southeastern portion of the territory. With the foregoing data the cornlitions are favorable for carrying on the triangulation where necessary, and nlso extending the astronomical work into localities con~idered in immediate need of it.

334

t~.

S. VOAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY .

. A. gla11ce at the progress sheet of southeast .Alaska shows that the survey of the iuland passag·es is nearly completed. To finish it requires a survey from Sitka nortlil.ward through Peril Strait, a11d thence north and south along Chatham Strait to join the work of l 8i9 a::.id l8UO. This is estimated to require two seasons. The survey of Icy Strait, Glacier Bay, and Cross Sound "·ill occupy about 1wo seasons more. The character of the shore-line work that is now bei11g done iu the inland passages is of a sufficiently precise nature for cartographic purpCJses and furnishes results which supply all that is at present demanded ju the line of exactnesR; but it is advisable that the survey of the sections completed before the Dl<\thods of work were brought to their present degree of accuracy should be remade and that all the work be brought to a uniform degree of wortl1. The topogrnphy Oil our present charts of the Inland Passage has not been treated in the detail that its importance merits. A characteristic rcpresentatio11 of the 111ai11 toi>ographical features is of vital importance for charts wliich al'e i11te1Hled to satisfy the demands of a coasting trade, and nowhern is this more important than in a region where the meteorological conditions are so ba<l as they are in Alaska, often leaviug the pilot dependent for a check on his position upon fleeting views of limited sections of the land. It is very important that the defects in this respect should be supplied by a topographical reconnaissa11ce made at as early a date as will be found practicable. Practically tl1e entire outside coast, from Dixon Eu trance to Cross Sound, remains u11sun·eyed except so far as it has been done in the rapid exploratory work of the early voyageri;i. In consi1leri11g the necessity for active prosecution mid au early completion of the work of imrwying southeast Alaska, the character of the traffic to he benefited by it must he taken into account. Neal'ly all of the carryiug trade of southeast Alaska is by steamers. The iutricate passages, strong tidal currents, and deep waters render navigation by sailing vessels difticult and dangerous. For these reasons, and on account of the unfavorable meteorological conditions, the steamers run.ning in this trade are and must be, even after a complete survey has been made, supplied with pilots having accurate local lrnowledge of all the waters through which they run. Numerous fisheries and canneries are already located off the main line of steamer travel ou the west si<le of Prince of "Wales and Baranof islands, and these are visited at intervals during the season by the regular steamers which carry supplies r~nd at the end of the season transport the pack to southern markets. It needs 110 arguments to Rhow that wherever tlie ships of our merchant marine touch alo11g our coasts accurate charts sliould be providccl. But inasmuch as in Alaska we have a vast extent of shore line, of which the existing charts are poor and misleading, if not actually dangerous, and as tlie work of remedying- this state of affairs must 11aturally be protracted through a term of years, it is plain that the surveys of the different sections should be taken up in the order of their importance.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAHT II.

335

Jn contrast with the steam cal'rying trade of southeast Alaska is that by sailing and steam vessels to the westward from Cooks Inlet and Kadiak, along the Aleutian Islands and northward to the Arctic. The various pai;ses through the Aleutian chain need immediate attention. 'l'hese are used. aunually by the Arctic whaling fleet, the supply ships of the various companies tradiug· along the shores of Bering Sea and supplying the interior lly way of the Yukon and other rivers, the codfishing fleet, and also by the combined squadrons of United States and British vessels that patrol and guard the waters adjacent to the Seal Islands. Of all these passes but three-Unalga, Aknta11, and Unimak-are in common m;e, owing 1.o the imperfect sur\'eys, and ships are often compelled to ~o far out of tl1eir way to make a lmowu pass. Even in the three passes 111e11tio11ed we Ii ave little knowledge of the velocity and set of t.he currents. Xext in importa111'.e is probably the vicinity of Kadiak h;land and Cooks Inlet, where a. htrge salmon industry has been bnilt np within the past ten or twelve years arHl where surve~·s arl~ very urgently required. 'l'lre Slrnrnagi11 Islands allll the western end of the Alaskan Peninsula would follow in the orucr of prominence. 'rhese regions have already attained a comme1'cial impo1·ta11ce which makes a new chart of them a pressing necessity. Off the first-mentioned islands the Albatross has develo1led a grnat codfish hank of 4 400 square miles in area. Unga is being exploite1l fo1· its mines of preeions metals, aJHl the coal indications about Port :\liillcr were snllicieutly promising to justify the Alaska Commercial Company in lrnillli11g a, small railroad to develop them. Thin Point, Sa:1d Point, Belkovsky, and Sannakh have long l>cen among the most protitable statio11s of the Alaska Commercial Company, if we except those 011 the Seal Islands. · As the great :iverrne of communication with the interior of the territory, it is important that the Yukon, and particularly its delta, should receive early attc11tion. Without doubt, if a deep-":ater channel could be traced through the flats, which at present, on account of our complete ignorance or the collllition of the mouth of the river, are an insuperable bar to tlre navigation· through them of a11y bnt Jight-clraft, flat-bottomed steaml>oats, it would give a tremendous impetus to the examination of the great possibilities that we have good reason to hope exist in this vast region. And there can be no possillle doubt of the value of the great fh;beries that would ut once be established here if a survey would show the possibility of entrance and departure for the vessels that would be required for bringing up labor, material, and supplies and ta.king· away the product. Our present representation of the mouth of the Yukon iH the result of the examination made by a merchant marine captain iu command of one of the Western l:Jnio11 'l'elegraph experiment ships i11 1865. The astronomical determination of Port Clarence, the rendezvous for the

336

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Arctic whaling fleet, would be very valuable. At pre:;;ent the only sta<:;ion available for determining· the chronometer errors for these vessels and tlie Revenue-Marine steamers which patrol tlie nortliern part of Bering Sea it~ at Plover Bay, in Siberia, a station established in the fifties by the English while searching for traces of Sir John Franklin's expedition. The nature and period of this determination predicate such a low degree of accuracy for it, and our interests in these waters are now so weighty, that any delay in furnishing one or two improved positions will subject our country to a charge of serious neglect. The continental shore line from Cross Sound to Cooks Inlet is of such a nature and interest that there seems to be no immediate demand for its survey for commercial purposes now that such work l1as been completed in Yakutat Bay, the most important locality along this stretch. We con'clude that the work along the Aleutian Islands and in the vicinity of Kadiak Island and Cooks Inlet should be undertaken at the very earliest opportunity possible. For this work it is not considered advisable to prescribr. or suggest rigidly defined methods of procedure. The wild character of much of the shore line, the adver~e meteorological conditions, and the limitations which economical considerations put on the completion of the scheme1:1 suggested before a good reconnaissance has been made, are all arguments against offering any minutely prescribed plans for approval for aetual execution. Your committee would, however, suggest that the degree of accuracy such as the Conference deems sufficient for tertiary work should be considered satisfactory for the surveys proposed in the preceding paragraphs. Certain general suggestions about metliods of work are offered as follows, but they are to be considered as subject to the wide discretion which we consider i,;hould be allowed to the officers charged with making those surveys: One of the first considerations in the extension of tho survey westward to and along the Aleutian Islands is the astronomical determinations. 'l'hcse are of prime importance for the reason that it is impracticable to carry a scheme of triangulation along the chain, and hence the survey must be made of the different islands independently and tlieir relative position determined hy astronomica,l operations. It is suggested that along this chain of islands the method of longitude determinations by terrestrial signals would probably be feasible, accurate, and also the most economical. The islands are near enough together to allow such signals to be exchanged. For the survey of the separate islands base lines must be located and measured on each, and its outline delineated by a lo~al survey. The Aleutian chain extends nearly east and west for a distance of about 1100 miles. .Among the islands making up the group there are three, Unimak, Unalaska, and Umnak, which a.re each about 60 miles

REPORT FOR 1893-PART JI.

337

Jong·; two, Atka and Amlia, about 40 miles Jong; three, Adakh, Amchitka, antl .Attu, about 30·miles long; three, Kanaga, Tauaga, and Kyska, about 25 miles Jong; four, Ungll, Sa111mk, Akutan, and Agatu, about 15 miles long, besides a host of lesser islets. To control the longitude of this chain it 'is suggested that six stations be determined chronometrically, viz, Kadiak, Sand Point, Unalaska, Seguam Islantl (or some other in the vicinity of Amutka Pass), one of the Hat Islands, and Attn. This would give a series of stations along the chain at an average distance of about 300 miles apart. Advantage might be taken of the regular steamer running during the summer months from Sitka westward to establish one or even three of these stiitions ( Kadiak, Sand Pornt, and Unalaska) during the coming season if fu11ds are availabJe. Having once located the six base stations, a single party with proper transportation facilities coul(l rapirlly locate intermediate stations by the exchange of signals. On the larger islands enumerated above two or more 8tations, oue at either end and the other intermediate, would seem to be essential, autl in cases where it would b(.' impracticable to find iutervisible poiuts it woultl probably be feasible to obtain results hy uoting the times of signals made from a vm;scl located far enough off tbe island to be visible from its cud:; or from the intermediate station; to supplement the metho(l by signal,s nuder favorable cir· cumstances, all(]. when practicable the differe11ces of longitudes may also be determined from latitmle and reciprocal astronomical azimuths. In the bigh latitudes of the Aleutian Islands this method will give the differences of Iougitucle with very great accuracy. No doubt the greatest obstacle to all surveying work in this vicinity would be the tlense and per::;istent fogs that are so prevalent, and, as bearing on this su~ject, the followiug table from Dall's Alaska (p. 444), will give something of an idea of the number of favorable days that may be expected during the months of l\fay, June, .July, August, and September. The table shows the 11umber of wholly dear, partly cJear, and wholly cloudy days tbat occurred at U1ialaslrn d,nri11g a period of seven years. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - , --- - - ; -···· - -1- -----·1

! ~lay. I
105
104

June.

,

! - - - - ------1
Clear clays Partly clear Cloudy

I I

'

~

.

6 95
109

I
l

i -----1--·-- -1-. --Jul)'. ' .\UKu't.
0 118 . '

Scptcrnber. 1

99

106 106

5

;:?

107

IOI

·-- - ------'-- --------·---I_

This gives an average of less than one wholly clear day and about fifteen each of partly clear and clomly days per month. 'J:he execution of the work about the mouth of the Yukon rnig·ht he i11trnsted to a, varty which could be taken to St. MichaeJs by the ren·mw cutter, and, being supplied with a stean1 launch, conltl be employed from about July
8. Ex. 19, pt. 2 -22

338

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

1 to about September 13, aud tlleu return on the same vessel, a course of procedure tllat woul1l entail a small cost to the Govemment. For the deterrniilation of Port Clarence an observer might go up to that point on the revenue cutter, and if observations were being made contemporaneously at Unalaska a set of chronometers coulil be taken from that place 011 the tender which visits Port Clarence with supplies and to rcceh'e the accumulated boue and oil of the whaling·. fleet about midsummer, a11d by comparison with the chronometers, cbecked by olJscrvations at Port. Clarence, the 1011gitu.:le of this important station could be determined. It is very probable that the pul>licspirited managers of the Pacitic Steam Whaling Company would give such assistance to this pr~ject that it could lJe perfected at a very small expense.,
PROPOSED SCIIBilIB 01"
'l'l~IANIH'LA'l'ION FOl~

SOU'l'IIEAS1' ALASKA.

In order to properly connect a111l coordinate the work of reconnaissance triangulation that has been carried 011 i11 southeastcru Alaska for the pm;t twelve years, it is importaut that a main :-;ystem of tri<iugulatio11 shoultl extell<l from Dixon E11tra11ce to Chilcat. Such a system wonlfl 1iaturally exteutl 11p Clarence Strait to Sum11cr 8trait, along SumHCI' Strait westward, cross the southern part of Knin Island in the vicinity of Tebcnkof Bay to Chatham Strait, the11ce up Chatham Strait arnl Lynn Canal to tlw head of' the latter. From this main system, as a baHP, seco111lal'y systems could in time he earried alo11g the outside coa:-;t. l n executing the main triangulation, and, in fact, any il'iangulatio11, in sonthcastel'll Alaska, tho work must liecessarily be carried along the shore liue of the vassages, a11d for the following reasons: 1. Owing· to the rnggetl nature of the country anti the dense u11dergrowth of the forel':\tS that cover it, it would involve too great an expenditure of time antl money to at.tempt to carry a tria11gulation along the mountain tops. 2. EYen if the mountain tops were accessible, t.hern would be great loss of time in attempting to c,ccupy them. Clouds hang for days about the summits, wlwn lower down, near the shore line, tllere woultl be no difficulty in observing. 3 . .Again, a scheme loll king to the occupatio11 of mountain peaks wonld nuqncstionably involve long lines 011 which heliotropes would be 11eccssary, aJHl as dear and sunny <lays are exceptioual this ag·aiu wouhl be a sonn'.e of delay autl <>xpeuse. On the other haml, a triangulation extelllliug aloug the ~hore liue wonltl involve sides of au average length of about 10 miles. For these dh;tauces signal poles only need be usefl, a11d with the in:-;trument: properly p1·otectetl from rain it woultl be possible to olJscrve on many days when light ram was falling. ·

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
ll.A~E

339

LIN.EH.

Bases for this work will be difficult of loeatiou and will necessarily be shorter thau those usually measured for a main scheme. Generally speakiug-, the sites for lmses must be soug-ht in river bottoms, near the shoreli11e, am.I on such stretches of beach as cau be found. Iu the latter case advantage can be taken of flats left bare by the title at low water. From the uatme of the country suggested above as suitable for baseline sites, it is evidl\llt that the employment of base apparatus in measnremeuts is sc:nrcely practicable, and advautngc must l>e takeu of titpes, by mea11s of which a1:cnrate and 11uick work can be <lone, as has been clearly demonstrated experimentally. In cousequenee of the special valne that gravity cxperirnei1ts iu. the high latitudes of Alaska would have, it is recommended that these observations I.Jc made by the astronomical parties either as part of their regular work or inci<le11tally, as circumstances may dil:tate. 'fhe astronomical parties should also bo req uire<l to make observations for the magnetic declination, dip, and iuteusity at each station, and the triangulation parties should observe for <lecliuatiou by uoting the magnetic bearings of the sides of the friaugnlation .
·J OIIN E. :'llcG1iATII, Chairman.

A. L.

BALDWIN,

Sccrctciry.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE G, ON INSTRUMENTS.

'l'he committee has thought proper to confine it!'\ attention to the consideration or illstrumeuts fur astro11omi1:al work and the measure:nent of horizou tal angles, as other committees, ha viug to report on special work, will 11ecci;sarily consider the instrnments used in such operations. The following list of instruments now in possession of the Survey ha~' l>eeu pre1H11·cd by the instrnment division:
POJ~

A::-;TRON0111JCAL WORJL

transits or about 1 L4" 1" (-!;'j.inch) focus aud 70 111111 (2y-inch) objective, with power of about 100. 2 transits of 95" 111 (:J71-iuch) focus aml 8:! 111111 (3!-iuch) ol.Jjectivc, with a i1owe1· of ~tbout UO. 4 meridia.u telescopes of i!)c (31-inch) focus and ti3 111111 (2~·inch) objective, and powers of IHI to !10. a meridian telescopes of li!i·· (21i-inch) focus· and ii7 111111 (~!-inch) o~jec tive, with powers of iiO to 70. 1 He1)sold vertical circle, with microscopes. 4 zeuitb telescopes of' about. 114°111 ( 45·inch) focus a11d 70 111111 (3-i11ch) objectives, with powers of about 100.
(j
111 1 "

340

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SUH.VEY.

1 zenith tele8cope of fi(i" 111 (2G-inch) focus aud 57 111111 (2!-i1ich) objective. 8 cylill(let· chronograpus (Fauth & Co.). 4 1:>ctH of lo11gitnde telegraphic apparatus. HJ sidereal breaks-drcnit chronometers, 10 of which are by Negus and !) of these of very recent date.
FOR HORIZON'l'AL ANHLES.

Direction theodolites:
5 51n 11 (20-inch), 3 microscopes, I 46ro 11 ( 18-inch), 3 141c 1 "(16-inch),3 1 36rn1 ( 14-inch), 2 1 30r 11 1 (12-inch), 2 2 3ocn 1 (12-inch), 2 2 3oc 11 1 \ 12-inch), 3 2 30'"" 1 ( 12-inch), 3 (, 20ro11 (8 inch), 2 \Vurdcmann. T. & S. F.&Co. Wunlcmann.
Brunner.

F. & Co. F. & Co. Oflicc. F. & Co.

Repeating theodolites:
36< 111 (14-inch), Brun11t:r. 3oco11 (12-inch), Gambey, I with 30"' 11 ( 12-inch) vertical circle. 25« 11 (w incl!), Gamb(~-, 1 " 25"'" (w-inch) 20"" (8-inch), Gambey, 3 " 2or 111 (8-inch) 2orm (8-inch), Office, 3 " 15<rn (6-inch) and micrometer eyepieces, and all with compass dcdinon1ctcrs. 8 15cm (6-inch), (;amhcy. 10 15cin (6-inch), Brunner, 1 with vertical circle.
1

3 9 4 6

A number of other i11stru111c11ts in the possessiou of the 8urvey might have been added to this list, au<l some of them will uudoubte<lly still be used, but iu general they are so a11tiquatecl or of such inferior character tlrnt it is thought scarcely worth while to consider them here. Types of all im;tmments uame<l in this list have been 1:>et up in the instrument division and examined by the committee and other members of the Conference. lll g-eueral, they are good instruments of their kind.
M5'l'IWN0::\11CAL INSTHU::llEN'l'S.

The six 114''"' (4;1.inch) tram;its were made by 1'roughton & Simms, of J,ondou, 1845-1856, and were nsed in telegraphic longitude work of' the Suney prior to 1888. 'rhree of these have recently been recoustructed and improved in the ofllc:e. These instruments, though excellent, are now considered too larp;e all(} heavy to be economically used in the general work of the Survey, a11d it is llot likely that they will be used i11 tliefuture except at stations where traus]'iortation is not an important item or where they 111ay be required for a loug time, as at the astrouomical stations at \\'ashington a11<l San Francisco. 'l'he two 8J''"' (:)7-inch) trnusiti; were 111a<le in the instrument shop of t.Jie Sm·vpy in 1887-88, a.11tl hav<· lwe11 used with success in the t.eJe· grapi1ic longitude work since that date.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

311

'l'he fonr 70cm (31-inch) and three (i6'"" (~Ii-inch) meridian telescopes were made in this country by \Vurdemann, Kubel, and Fauth & Co. since 1868. They have been used for the determination of latitude by Talcott's method and for time observations with success, and are, in fact, the most popular iustrmnents in the possession of the Survey for general field astronomical work. Two of the larger ones have recently been reconstructed aud improved :1t the omce, and another is now in hand. It is recommended that the others ho similarly improved as far as practicable. These iustruments were designed by an Assistant of · the Survey. ' The four 114cm (45-iueh) zenith telC'scopes were made by Tronghton & Simms, of London, about 1850. As originally constructcll they were not satisfactory. Oue of them was changed, and the other three for many years were set ,aside. Ju 1890 three of thef-\e were reconstructed in the instrument shop of the Survey and usell at Rockville, l\'ld., San Francisco, Cal., and Houoluln, Hawaii, for olJservations for tl1e investigation of the variation of latitude. One of the three was provided with a new o~jective au<l eyepieces, and with a further improvcme11t of the mounting of the level1; it is belioveil it will equal the !Jest zenith teleRcope extai1t. It must be said of these instruments, as of the large transits, that they are too heavy for economical nse in the geueral work of the Survey, a111l they are not likely to be useu in tho future except for special investigations. Tlie (iGc (26-mch) zenith telescope was made byWurdemanu in 1854, and is a good instrnment. The eight cylindet· chronographs wero made by Fauth & Co., of Washington, the first about 1878. They were specially designed for the work of the Snrvey and have been usctl with success; but it must be said that their great weight is a serious objection. Many chronographs of American, English, French, and (ierrnan llesign are equally heavy, and do not seem to meet the re11uireme11ts of the field work of the Coast a11d Geodetic Snrvey so well as those now in use. When new chronographs arc 11cede1l, t11c questions of their weight and of some improvements on tho present ones shonl<l b1~ particularly considered. The astronomical i11strume11ts employed by other surveys in this country are very Rimilar to those iu use in tho Coast and Geodetic Survey. '.r11ose iu Europe, liowevcr, nre <J.Uite different. There the broken transit has bePn extensively nsctl in the telegraphic longitude work, and the illustrations of various forms are found in the pnblicatio11s relating· to this work. There seem to have been some difficulties With these instruments in the flexure of the axis aud the displacement and distortion of the prism. It is said, however, that these difliculties hu.ve been overcome. Whether such an instrument should IJe adopted in the Uoast and Geodetie Survey the committee deem lJest to leave to future consideratiou.
111

342

U. R. COA8T AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

It is only of late years that the Talcott metliod has been used in Europe, and for this purpose a special zenitll telescope has been made by Bamberg, of Berlin, for the International Geodetic Association. This instrument is illustrated in the report of Dr. M arcuse's observations at Honolulu, 1891-!l2. It has a broken tclescopr, hut the prism is small and placed very near the eye end. It has about the same power as the 114°111 (45.iucb) zenith telescope of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. It is undouhte<lly a fine instrument, but its great weight renders it unfit for gc11eral field work, and it should be properly classed. with instrume11t:,; for a fixed observatory. A similar i11strnmcnt is now in use at Columbia College, New York, where observations are bei11g- made with it to investigate tlu~ variation of latitude. 'fhe 'vertical <~ircle, especially as made by the I~epsolds, has been and is being- used in European i-;urvcys for the determination of latitudes. 'r11e Coast and Geodetic Survey has one Ruch instrumcut, but it has not met with favor, and it is not deemed advisable to further introduce it in tbe Survey, as it is helicyed the Talcott metllod is f'mperior and can be used with quite as gTeat facility.
'l'HEODOLI'l'ES.

The Survey has such a nmnber and variety of theodolites that it seems inexpedient to now introduce uniformity of <lesig·n without an expense which is not warranted Ly its prese11t needs. The five 51""' (20-inch), tho 4r,cm (18-inch), 41"'" (lG-inch), aml :36'''" (14-inch) position· theodolites are of good design. Five of the 30cm (12-inch) instruments arc faulty in that the circles move upon the collars in shifting poi-;ition. It is recommended that these circles be fixed and the instruments be used with position stands. The other two 30"'" (12-inch) direction theodolites were recently coustructcd at the office. They were designed with great care and the workmanship is of the very best. Tlley have double centers, the outer one of cast iron and tbe inner of hardened steel. 'l'he inuer center and socket are made with great precision. The outer center aU<l socket are well made, but with less precision, as this center serves only for shifting the position of the circle. 'l'he alidade, supported on the inner center, is of nluminum as far as practicable, and the friction upon the center is very small. In their construction no relieving spring was deemed necessary; but the committee, considering this a point of vital importance, calls attention to the necessity of studying this omission in its effect on the instrument after it has been subjected to transportation aud wear. '.l'he circles were divided on tho Coast and Geodetic Survey engine. These instruments have been cxauuned a11d practically tested by Assistant H.. S. Woodward, and a preliminary report showt-l No. 145 to be an instrument of a very sttperior order. It is recommended that as soon as tlle uew circle oi No. 146 has IJceu added, exammed, and found

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PART II.

343

satisfactory both rnstrumeuts should be sent to the field as soon as practicable. The six 2ocm (8-inch) direction theodolites are also faulty in that the circles move upon the collars, all(l some of them are held in position only by friction, no clamp whatever being provided. The micrometers of the microscopes are poor. 'rhese instruments Lave not been n.-:ed for ruany years, and it is recommended that, if they are to be used in the future, the circles be fixed, position stands provided, and ah;;o new mi crometerR. Since 1873 the 51cm (20-inch) theodolites have been mostly used in the g-reat triangulation of th<~ Survey, where the length of the lines have been 100 kilometres (GO miles) and upward, while t.he others have been nsP<l in smaller work. Nearly all the repeating theodolites now in nse by the Survey were rn:ide by Gambey and Brnmier, of· Paris, many years ago. They are still as go0tl instruments n.s ever. Originally they all had small a11d low-power telescopes. I~arger anu better telescopes have heen :-ul<led to some of the 25cm (10-inch) and 30·m (l:.!-iuch) Gambey instrument8. The construction of these instruments is snch that they arc so light that they v;-ill not admit of any very great weight being added to them. If larger telescopes are nee(led, they should be ma<lo of aluminn111. 'rhese instrnments have been mostly usc<l in the smaller triangulation of the Survey. 'fhe :~Ocm (1~-inch) instruments have, however, been successfully used in triangulation with lines as great as 60 to 80 kilometres (40 to 50 miles). Although all the theodolites named in the list above given are considered good instruments, it is well known that the graduations of sonw of theni are defective, and it is recommended that such circles be regrit1l1iated as soon as pr'.lcticable. The new 30'' (12-inch) theodolites recently made at the office slww that the Coast and Geo<letic Survey dividing engine in its present condition will do very satisfactory wol'l~. '1.'l1e graduation of these circles will compare favorably with the best modern circles. It may also be said that the regrnduation of a, circle at the office is neither a diflieult nor an expensive operntio11, auu a faulty or in.jure1l grnllnation should not be allowed to sta1ul. In the Great 'rrigonometrical Survey of India tho triaugulation was executed with position theouolites wlth circles from 4G" 111 (18-inch) to UJcm (36-incb), some of them having 5 microscopes. They were made hy Trought.on & Simms, of London. In design they are similar to some that were formerly used in tho Coast and Geodetic Survey. \Vith the exception of one 41i 0111 (18-incb) instrument, these theodolites have been discarded by the Coast ai)(l Gcouetic Survey as being unnecessarily large and heavy. 'l'he theodolites that have been used in other geodetic sm·veys in this country are ve1·y similar to those used 011 the Coast and (+codetie Survey.
111

344

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC 8URVEY.

1\la11y suggestions have been ma(lc to the cemmittee as to improverneuts on the theodolites of the Survey and for new instruments, awl it is recommended that the officers of the Survey submit these suggestions i11 writiug to the Superintendent. 'l'he committee wisheK to reco11nnen<l the 1n11·chaso as soon as practicable of some 10""' (·l-iuch) and 18" (7-inch) t.heodolites for use in Alaska, and the ofliee1·s interested should at once submit their views on Ruch instruments in writing. Iu the European surveys a variety of instruments has been used. 'l'he greater number of them have been universal instrnments, with circles of from 25 to 30 1" 11 in diameter. As regards the instmmeuts for astronomic work and the measurement of' horizontal angfos, the committee considers the present equipment of the :Survey as very good. Some of tlwse i11strume11ts are among tho l>est of their class at this date, and others, although such.as would not be constructed now, are t-00 valuable to be al>andoned. With such repairs and modifications as can be made at tlw office shop they will reuder excellent service for many years. Some new instruments will, however, l>e needed from time to time, and their construction should receive careful attention. In couclusiou, the eommittee begs leave to call the attention of observers to the necessity of bestowing at all times the proper care and protection upon instruments, not only with the view to their safety against injury from accident during transportation but also during use in the field. While using the highest grade of instruments upon the finest class of work the observer can not l>e too careful and circumspect in providing a verf'ectly stal>le foundation of masonry or iron when practicable, and in protecting them as much as possible against unequal or sudden changes of temperature. An observer's tent, when a tent is used, of double walls and roofing, will be found a most serviceable and eflicient protection against the radiant heat from the sun, direct or retlectetl. Lamps or candles should never l>e kept near an instrument at any time without a screen for the iut:ei·ception of radiant heat. It is also recommended that observers in the field should study the erratic movements of the level for the purposes of ascertaining the cause and suggesting a rn111edy. It is esp(~ cially important to note the period and extent of tho oscillations of the bul>ble. EDWIN S"MI'.l'II, Chairman. C. H. VAN ORDEN, Secretary.
11 '

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

345

REPORT OF COMMITTEE H, ON OFFICE AND FIELD RELATIONS.

lt h; evide11t tlrnt it is very important and for the best interests of t11e Survey that tlie relation between the office and field forces should be as harmonious ns possible. In order to effect this much-to-be-desired object your committee thinks it is especially necessary that the "l~eg· ulations of 1887 ," adopted and issued by the then Secretary of the Treasury (with amendments since added), an1l all circulars that have been issued from time to time by the Sui 1erintendent, shall be carefally 1studied and their provisione faithfully carried out. By this means alone can effective cooperation be seemed. To attain this end the following recommendations are made:
1. RECOlWS-THEm PHEPAHATION, DUPLICATION, A~D TRANSMISSION TO THE OFFICE.

Following are articles 31, 32, 33, on page 3:3 of the Regulations of 1887, relatiug to records and their transmission to the oflice; also article 35, relati11g to 'transcripts fnom the records: :H. The originul journals of observations aml orii;:iual topographical and hydrogmphical sheet.s must in evory case ho deposited in tho otlice of tho Survt'y at \Vashington. The journals, recordH, all lield uotes, and originahlata of every description must ue kept in the otlice; llllll 1111 persons emplo~·ed in making observations are rc<1nircd to fnmish copieA thereof to the otllco ut the dose of each season's work. Each original topographic or hydrogr:qihic sheet must he accompanied hy a descrip-. tive report in writing :uul in duplicate of the locality to which the sheot refers, in acronlance with tho Superintemlent's pamphlot circular of April 11, 1887, entitled "Instrnutions uud .Memornndn. for Descriptive Heports to Accompany Original Sheots.'" 32. All hooks containing official data, all topographical nn<l hydrographioal sheets, with their acoompnnying descriptive reporis, and all other records of field work, both original antl in tluplic1~te (when ro<1uired), must be forwarded to the Superintendent., indorsetl with contents of llBckage, nnd must nlwnys lie uccompnniccl by a tmusmitting Jetter to the same addross, stating dotlnitely what is sent, with the necessary explnnatious, hut with no other reforenceH. This course in regard t.o tr11nsmlttiug letters must ho pursued with respect to instruments und ull othor artfoles sent to or from tho ofliee. 33. Eniry transmitting Jetter must specify in detail every article sent. Of each book or pa.per of i:eeortls the general contents must he stated; of each to11ographi<·ul, l1yilrn~mphic, or othor sheet and uccompnnying report, its character nnd limits; of ua<'h in~truurnnt., itH chnractm·, g-enernl diruonsions, and condition; of mwh box of hot.tom specimlmH, tho 1111ml1or it contains; and so on, for every item sent. No other umttcr nmRt bo roforred to iu the trnnsruitting letter. 35. Except to porsons employed iu the work of tho Survey, trn,n1;1cripts from the records or fl.·0111 notes or sketollos shall not be communicated without the authority of tlw Super in ten dent.

The term "orig·inal record" means the record as originally made, and not a fair copy.
·This circular uf April 11, 1887, has been superselled by the Superintendent's circulur of July 3, 1890, preseribing 01w descriptive rtiport.

346

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUH.VEY.

The duplicate records should. lrn made in the Held when practicable, and sent to the office as soon as possible. No computation whatever should be made i11 1,l1e duplicate record;;. Full details of instruments, of observiug a.11d !'(~cording wethods, aiul all uata useful to the computer should be i11serte1l in the preface to all
l'l'CO!'dS.

Progress sketches for the use of the computer xhonld be ma1le of the prescribed scale and si':1:e, a.nd conformable to facts. (See Superinternlent's Circular, February 15, 1888.) 'l'he regulation in regard to the prompt transmission at the close of the season of summary reports, with sketch and statistics, shonlll be enforced. · While observing, any changt~ made i11 the iustrument, voluntarily or otherwise, should be noted in the re1:onl nuder head of " Hemarks." 'l'he record should be full and as definite as pos:;ible, keeping in Yicw that the computer is necessarily ig11ora11t of many details familiar to the observer. The record should be made complete and accordi11g to the form provided, and the names of stations shonl1l be written plainly. No recorder should be employed unless he cau make a plain record. Descriptions of triangulation stations shoul<l always be i11 a separate volume and not i11 the ]>reface of the observations, except in primary triangulation: All determined points, of whatever character, should, when practicable, be permanently marked and describeJ, as the office is often unable to furnish 1lescriptious called for of well-determined but unoccupied point::>.
2. FIELD COMPU'l'ATIOI\'.S-DEGREE OF ACCUHACY HEQUIRED.

Computations should be made in the field while ohserviug· nnd before leaving the station, if possible, to make certain that the observations nre satisfactory and to insure that no necessary <lata are omitted i11 the original record. lfo computation should be made by the observers of a greater <lep;rne of accuracy than is sufficient for the above purprn,;e. · The observer's abstract should l>e complete, showing every 111easm·Pcl angle of' any kind, and should follow the printed fo1·ms. 'l'lie triangle side computation should he complete, showing all Hues determined, and a regular system should be followe<l; that hi, :i 11 triangles upon any one point should follow each other consecutively. 'l'he names of stations in the triangle side and position computations should l>e written from left to rigbt, or in the order of the a:1:imn th. Angles of the nearest whole seconds and logarithms to five places are sufficient for the computation of t(>rtiary triaugulation. As soon as practicable after the close of the tidd season the chiefs of parties should turn in to the office their completed computations.

REPOHT FOR 1893-PART II.
3. ACCOGNTR.

347

It is believed that b~· complying stl'ictly with the requirements contained in the Regnlation8 a11d the directions printed on the ditforeut forms of vondie1·s all friction betwee11 the lielcl force aud the accounting division will be avoided. 'fhis matte1· will be referred to again in our "Conclusions," at the end of tile report.
4. INSTlW:\lEi\'TS-Tl!Em SHIP:'.-lENT TO AND FH.0:\1 THE FIELD.

A history or sketch of instruments owned by the Survey should be prepared. A lJook should be kept for this purpose in the instrument division, in which i-;pace could be assigned to each instrument and its prnsent condition, with full detail:-; as to the aperture of telescope, focal length, magnifying power, cte., data concerniug constants, graduation, etc., and, in fact, every necessary detail should be stated, so t.hat a reference to the instrument by kind and number would be sufficient to identify any fact concemillg it in case any observer neglects to give necessary data in his records. Auy reasonable change suggested by an observer should be lloted in this book, and the action of the instrumeut board on this suggestion should be recorded. Any change whatever in the iustrumcnt llHHle uy the instru111e11t division should be ca.refnlJy entered, an<l the date 011 whid1 tl1e change was made should be Htated .. If thiH recommeudation is carried out it will save much time and labor in the compnting division. A record ot' the cou<lition of' each instrument sent to the field at the time of' leaving the oflice shoulll be kept in the instrument 1livision, so that the canse .of any i11,iury iu transportation could be more definitely ascertaine11. A report of anything objectionable to the observer 1liscovered wheu the jnstrnment is nnpacked in the field should be made to the office, so that tl1e eJ'l'or, if any, may not be repeated. The regulation requiring a report on the condition of the instrument when it leaves tlie field should be enforced, so that the cause of injury in transportatioll from the field can be more definitely ascertained. This report should i-;fate iu detail t11e detects and repairs needed. 'fhe 1·onstauts of some instruments-thermometers, barometers, mag·ll<>tic i 1Jst1·umc11t.s, all level vials, tape lines, base apparatus, aud instru- · meuts of like character-should ue seut to the field with the instrument.. The observers shonld he informed of any change in the parts of an instrument, a111l this information should be made a part of the record.
;i. ~IJSCELLANEOCS.

All data furnished by the office for the use of field parties should bB returned to the otlice when no longer necessary to field operations. In or1ler to make all records more uniform and to secure necessary data which may be omitted, a cm·ef'nl and critical examination should

348

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

be made by a competent person as soon as the records are received, and a report made to the Superintendent, showing all defects, togethm· with a statement as to whether the work appears good or otherwisP. In the prosecution of the field work, when a station can not be found, a full report should l>e made, showiug in detail the steps taken to recover the Rtation, and Rtating- the oflicer's opinion as to loss of the station, with the reasons tlwrefor. A record of lost stations should be prepared arnl kept in the drawing division, and these stations should be taken off the list of geographical positions available for field work, and data concerning them should not be furnished to anyone who does not specially request it with the knowledge that the station can not be recovered. When any station is visited, a statement of its condition should l>e communicated to the Snperin teudent. \Vhenever practicable without expense, the chiefs or partieR shonl<l visit marks established by the Survey and report their condition to the Superintendent. A list of circulars covering the headings considered above is submitted herewith. Inasmuch as many members of the force are, from the nature of their duties and the isolation of their stations, cut off from ready access to the large numbPr of current publications rich in matt'3r which is of professional interest to them, and an acquaintance with which is essential tq their highest usMulness, it is recommended that some competent person be charged with the examination of certain standard pul>lieations, of which he shall prepare brief extracts or headlines, with references to the publications in which they appear, and that copi<'s of these abstracts be forwarded from time to time to the different members of the corps.
CIRCULARS.

April 1, 1892. Concerning photographs: Negatives to be regarded as part of the original records. October 31, 1891. · Storage of property. October 29, 18!}1. Articles which may be purchased when urgently needed. March :n, 1891. Remains of aboriginal articles to be reported. Pebruary 27, 18!ll. Regulations iu regard to preparation of records. August 8, 1890. Selection of geographic 11anies. July 1, 18fl0. Allowance of subsistence for Superiutendf\llt when vii-;iting parties in the field. April 3, 1890 . .lfogulations in regard to preparation of records. March 21, 1889. 'l'reasury Department, No. 30.-Regulations in regard to sending telegrams. March 13, 1888. Directions for the i-;urvey, condemnation, appraisemcut, and sale of Coast Survey lll'Operty. July 12, 1888. Preservation of triangulation points. June 18, 1888. Statistics of field work. February 15, 1888. Regulating· progress sketches.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAH'l' II.

349

Septem bcr 8, 1887. Treasury Depart111ent, No. lOL-Sltip111c11 t of freight and paymeut of transportation over land-grant railroads. Sep tern ber 3, 1887. lnkiug topogmpltic sheets. 1\1 arcll ~8, 1887. Requiring inventoric:-1 to he re11dered . ·January 17, 1887. Concerning shipment of 1n·operty to the office. September 13, 1886. Proper manner of commnuicating with the ofiice. l\iarch 2ti, 188(). Executive order of the President.-I{equiring bonds of Assistants in order to secure advances. July 15, 1884. 'l'rcasury Department, No. 108.-lndorsement and payment of Treasury drafts. August Hi, 1886. Concerning accounts. August 11, 1886. " " .J nne 21, 1886. " " J UllC Hl, 1886. " " June 10, 188G. " " :May 29, 1886. " '' May 1, 1886. Transportation on bonded railroads. April 1, 188fi. 'l'reasury Department, ~o. 30.-l'rnparation aud rendition of accounts. April 3, 1886. Iuk for plaue-table sheets. l\Iarch 19, 1886. Transfer of property. In eo11clusion, the committee desires to exprm;s its appreciation of the Jetter from Mr. E. H. !~owler, draftsman, dated January 11, 1894, referred to it by the Conference, and of the letter of Mr.·J. B. Boutelle, c().Wputer, dated .January 8, 1894, }!resented by Assistant Schott. Tho committee recomme11<ls the preparation of a manual of observations, records, aud computations which shall eml.Jody the conclusions of the Coufereuce upon these points, and a manual of a<:counts, in accordance with ·the valuable suggestiom; contaiued in the paper (appended to this re1iort) of the <lisbursiug agent of the Coast and Geodet.ic Sw·vey, which the committee iudorses. GEOIWE A. FAIRFIELD, Oha-irman. ISAAC WINSTON, Secretary.
OORltELA'l'ION OJ~ THE Of>ERATING DEPAlt'l'MEN1' AND ACUOUN1'ING SYS'l'EM OF 'l'IIE COAS'l' AND GJ;;QDE1'IC SURVEY.

The reciprocal relations existing between the barren, uninviting, and verbose details of an accounting- system, and the researches, deliberations, itnd results of· a scientific commission, such as the Geodetic Conference now assembled in Washington, are not at a first gfance apparent. 'rhe two elements, if they mny be so termed, in fact appear to be widely at variance. No connection is immediately perce1itible, yet they are closely allied, almost if not absolutely inseparable, and to a greater degree than is at once co11ceivable. I~\w the purposes of this paper it is necessary at the outset to defiue the union between tho two and to show their conelation. To do this uuderstaudiugly it must be

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

assumed that the Confl'reuce, as a whole, is representative of the work of the Survey, and that the accounting system ii:; the embodiment of the productice means by which the work is accomplished. It will probably be conceded that all enterprises or undertakings, no matter upon what scale they may have origi11ally been plan11et1, un<ler every condition obtaining in life, require for tl1eir prosecution the providing of certain means or assistance whereby the work to be . accomplished may be brought to a successful termination, or, as is sometimes the case, its i 111practicability completely demonstrated. The work of the Survey, therefore, as represeutml by the Geodetic Couterence, may for the purposes of illustration be deemed an 1111uertaking in the furtlierance of which grants of money are made by Congress from time to time for its 1n·osecution, while, 011 the otl1er hand, the accounting system may lie said to represent the vehicle through which the means or assistance so provided becomes iwailable for the pn!'poses of the work. The co1111ection, therefore, between the operative department of the SmTey and its accountiug systmn would appear from the foregoi11g to be not only correlative but in fact i11st~parable, inasnmch as the existence of the former <lepeuds 1rntler prior legislative euactment upon the sustenance provided for its maintenance through the instrumentality of the latter. It may be permissible to sa,y that doubtless no ]lOiut is likely to arise <luring the progress of the deliberations or' this assemblagn which will convey the impression of a closer or more essential co11nectio11 as a natural result of the lallors of the Conference thau that of a coIDprehcnsive application and clear understanding of the laws, rules, regulatio11s, aIHl rcquil"Cmcnts governing· the disbursement of public funds in their relatio11 to the pl'osecution of the work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and 11roperly au<l intelligently accounting for the moneys so cxpenclell. This statement is made witli the more freedom, inasmuch as it appearH to be a well· established fact that the work of tlie Survey in it>i execution, its correctness, au<l its methods has 1iever been sn.ccessfnlly assailed or impeached, while its disl>ursemcnts, on the other hand, lmve been tlie subject . of almost continual criticism and animadversion from the days of the first Superintendent dow11 to the present writing. The special and distinctive clmracteristics of tlle work of the Coast a11d Geouetic Survey, both in the field aud office, compared with what may be called-there being fow exceptions-the ordinary plain business transactionB of other Bureaus of the Government, manifost themselves continually and persistently in the varied, and in many insta11ces novel, character of its expenditures. This is rnitnrally the case, and can not be avoided in tt gre.at governmental bureau which is notably engaged in the investigation and application of the most relined methods of scicuce with <t view to the betterme1!t an<l amelioration of the cou<li· tions 81UTOU1Hling maukind, the diffusion of general kuowledge, and the pl'ot~ction and development, by means of its perfect tmrveys of

.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

351

navigable waters, of the commerce of a great and growing country. But these eo111mtmdable and praiseworthy features are frequently lost to view in the maelstrom of criticism and censure which has at various times in the history of the Survey followed a so-called analysis of the expernlitures made for the work. To the average accounting clerk, possessed of little or no knowledge of the operations of the Survey, with acqufred predilections for hypercriticism, reeinforced doubtless in some im;t.a11ces by superior oflicial insistence, the accounts of the Bureau appear to present unusual opportunities for the promulgation of dogmatic opinions as to the propriety and necessity for particular items of expenditure, the usefulness and import of which aru as unknown to to him as would be the application of the most abstruse scientific problem. 'fhe result of such criticism is an almost continual correspondence between the ofiicials of the Bureau and the reviewing officers of the Department with reference to the allowance of disputed items; and this condition has obtaine<l, to a more or less extent, with the accounts of every disbursing- oflicer from the time of Capt. liV. H. Swift, Corps of Engineers, the first disbursing agent, to the present. The remedy, in part, is permaneney in the tenure of office of the accounting clerks and reviewing oflicials. Each man becomes gradually educated up to the needs of the service and in time comprehends and appreciates the system of accouutiug. A change in the office, however, and the schoolmaster's work begins mrnw. It is this feature which is largely responsible for the main body of 1·riticism to which our accounts have been subjected. '.l'he SnrveJ' 1ituls no fault with the expression of a fair, honest difference of opimo11 as to the propriety of any particular item of expenditnre. Errors of judgment are to be expected; but when discovered should be discnflsed and criticised in a spirit of fairness and not with a view to castfr1g· snsricion upon individual integrity. The foregoing remarks naturally lead up to a point which seems to present the desirability of a still further advance iu that degree of knowledge and familiarity with the laws relating to the disbursement of public furnls which is so essential a requirement in tlle avoidance of adverse criticism aucl in securing a prompt and accurate audit of our accounts. liYith this object in view, and taking advantage of the assemblag·e of so many otlicers in attendance at the Conference, the Superintendent of the Survey has suggested the preparation ofa papAr in which reference should be made to the technicalities necessary to be observed, with a brief analysis in each case of their necessity and import. The subject is a large one and can not readily be confined within the limits of a brief paper. An effort will be made, however, to define the more important points and to show their relation to the system of accountability now in force. l\Iauy of tbe rc<111i1·e111Pnts now obtaining. in the accounting system of the Survey are a uatural outgrowth of the provisions and terms of

352

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the." Plan of lfoorgauization of 1843." Subsequent legislation ha's from time to time a<lded others, various decisions of the accounting officers of the Treasury have contributed their quota, and others again have arisen through the executive action of the difterent Superiutendents. Regulations and directions almost innumerable in 1mmber, embracing all these various sources of authority, have been issued aud promulgated as occasion demanded. It may readily be seen, therefore, that the field · officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey charged with the responsibility of making disbursements of public funds must, in addition to his other qualifications, become a walking digest of law, regulat10ns, and decisions, if he desires to avoid criticism and individual :fi.uancial responsibility in the audit and settlement of his accounts. For tlie purposes of this paper, a reference to the latest edition of the ]{egulations (1887) will be first in order. As the enacting clauses of the appropriation acts of recent years have invariably contained the provision that the appropriations therein made were to be expended in accordance with the regulations adopted from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury~ it would seem that such regulations, when so adopted, pos· sess all the force of statutory law. To quote from paragraph 3: "The S"uperintendeut shall direct and superintend the work in general, and be re8ponsihle * * * for the proper and economical expenditure of the appropriations made therefor." There is food for much thought in the terms of this regulation. It is clear that the Superintendent is directly responsible for the cor· rectness of the disbursements. The chief of the party, thei·efore, in the matter of his expenditures, is to be considered as beitig primarily responsible to the Superintendent, although the provision contained in paragraph 46, which reads, "Chiefs of parties shall be held responsible for the expenditures of tlteir respective parties," would seem to require modification to meet this con· dition. The interpolation of the words "to the Superintendellt" after the word '' l'esponsible" would properly accentuate the l'espousibility here referred to. Responsibility should be centralized and not scattered. Divided responsibility is unsafe and should not be tolerated. Much more could be said in this connection, but the point involved is obvious. Paragraph 30 of the Iiegulations provides, iu brie~. that all moneys received from the sales of old property, etc., shall be paid to the Assist· ant in charge of the office and topography. Ju many cases this is not done, the moneys being deposited in some subtreasury or other governmental depository or forwarded direct to the Superintendent. The regulation is mandatory and admits of no discretion. It is another ciise of divided responsibility; but with this we have nothing to do. Such moneys should be forwarded as directed. This may be done by·meaus of check, money order. or by making a transfer through the instrumen· tality of the disbursing ageut.

REPORT FOR 1893-_-P.A:RT U.

353

Paragraph 45 refers to estimates and allotments, and provides that no expenses of any description, except for the purpose of saving life or property or in other sudden emergency, shall be incurred before estimates have been submitted to the Superintendent and approved by him. The saving clans& here is composed of tbe words "or in other sudden emergency," of which emergency the Superintendent, in his executive capacity, is the judge. Were it not for this clause all expenditures of every description would necessarily llave to be first estimated for and an allotment made to cover them before they could be incurred. In this connection chiefs of parties should be careful never to deviate, in the matter of rates of compensation or per diem allowances for subsistence, from the terms of their approved estimates. There is some leeway, so tO speak, in the matter of items for contingent expenses, but in those specifically referred to close adherence must be had to the terms of the estimates. If any departure is Imtde therefrom, it should be the subject of an explanatory letter. In preparing estimates the printed directions on the face should be followed. These are plain and require no further explanation iu this place. . Paragraph 47 requires chiefs of parties to transmit with their accounts a list of all articles that may be purchased for public use. This requirement is frequently overlooked, and to save time in the adjustment of the accounts the lists are often made out in the disbursing office. This provision of law admits of no discretion. Moreover, the lists of purchases, when made out by the chief of party, afford him an opportunity of stating what disposition, if any, bas been made of the property purchased. It is sometimes at once expended, and this statement made on the list avoids possible trouble in the settlement of inventory accounts, which would not be the case when tlle lists are made out in the disbursing office. Paragraphs 58, 59, and GO refer to allowances for commutation and to expense~ for actual subsistence. 'rhese two conditions should, not be misinterpreted. They are, however, frequently misapplied. Commutation of subsistence can never be allowed while traveling, except in cases of fidd duty involving travel with brief stoppages. Only the actual cost of subsistence can be allowed while traveling under the usual conditions obtaining in the Survey. The error is frequently made of charging commutation or per diem while so traveling. Under the regulation. this is not permissible and merely serves to invite disallowance or suspension of the amounts so charged. The ;1mou~ts paid for actual tmbsistence when traveling should be so charged, and if for expenses at a hotel or other lodging place, should be supported by receipt. When meals are procured at restaurants or 011 dining cars while traveling, the prices paid should be charged in detail on the traveling voucher, and receipts may be dispensed with when the .account is duly sworn to. The regulation, however, requires that all items not supported by receipts should be accompanied by a statement Ex. 19, pt. 2-23

354

U. S. COAS'l' .AND ,Q;EODETIC SURVEY.

showing the impracticability of obtaining such receipts. The hurry and confusion incident to travel is a necessary accompaniment of such impracticability. · ·The conditions governing the various allowances for commutation of subsistence are so clearly and plainly stated in the regulations that further explanation in this place would seem to be unnecessary. The entire question is one that is optional with the Superintendent as to the amount allowable within the maximum sum fixed by the appropriation act. ·· The foregoing paragraphs referring to the Regulations cover those points in which chiefs of parties are most frequently at fault. The vouchers used by the Survey in its system of accounting will now be taken up for description. These forms carry with them .all necessary printed directions for their· proper preparation; A careful consideration of the instructions contained in the directions when filling out vouchers would avoid at times much unnecessary labor in the disbursing office in the examination and audit of accounts. Many of the paragraphs of these directions are self-explanatory and need no further reference to them in this place. The purpose 'and. intent of a few of the leading paragraphs will, however, be given in order to show the bearring which they have upon the final audit of the accounts at the Treasury Department. Paragraph 5 of the Directions, Form 2General Voucher-Field, reads as follows: "Always state specifically the purpose of every expenditure. If for services, the capacity in which employed and the work upon which engaged; if for articles, state use for which intended." The last sentence is particularly appli· cable to the suspension of an item in a statement of differences recently received from the accounting officers of the Treasury, which reads as follows: ' ''The following items for ice are suspended for explanation as to necessity for purchase of ice in such large quantities," the total being $101.25. The ice accounted for here was purchased for the purpose of tempering the base bars of the apparatus used in the measurement of the Holton Base line. A mere statement to that effect upon the face of the voucher would doubtless have been sufficient to satisfy the accounting clerk of the Treasu-ry that the article purchased was not intended for the gratification of individual tastes or other indulgence, but was used solely for public purposes. Again, in the measurement of the Yolo Base line, the vouchers covering expenditures for briclt and cement and for the hire of bricklayers, expenditures necessary to the erection of the piers at the ends of the hne, were returned ~o the office for the specific approval and administrative scrutiny of the Superintendent upon the ground that the disbursement was of an extraordinary character and required full explanation and the highest executive sanction before it could be passed. As before, a silllP~e statement upon the vouchers of the purport of the expenditure,woulP,
I 1 ;

f.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

355

probably have been satisfa-0tory, and unnecessary correspondence would have been avoided. These two illustrations would seem to clearly indicate the propriety of stating specifically, at least in the case of items somewhat outside the usual routine, ''the purpose of the expenditure." Paragraph 4 of the Direetions, Form 2, requires that all items on the personal vouchers of chiefs of parties or their subordinates should be supported by receipts whenever practicable to obtain them; and when not practicable to obtain the receipts, to so state and give the· reason therefor. This paragraph is not observed to the extent that it should be in order to satisfy the requirements of the accounting officers, as the following suspensions iii our accounts will indicate: "The following items for lumber, freight, cartage, laths, nails, wire, tools, oil can, oil, eyebolts, damages, oak plank, services, luncheons, post-office registration fee, etc., are suspended for subvouchers (receipts) needed to perfect," the total a1nounting to about $17, and the items of expenditure ranging from 10 cents to about 75 cents or $1. Jndivid· ually, the sums involved are very small; in the aggregate their amount is considerable in the adjustment of an account for a full year's expend· itures. Jn such cases, after so long a lapse of time, it is hardly possible that the necessary receipts can be obtained by the various chiefs of parties, and hence recourse must be had to an appeal for equity and to any other prevailing· feature which may aid in securing the passage of the disputed item. The point might be raised in this connection that such items, unsupported by receipts, should not be allowed to pass the disbursing office. But it may be stated here in general terms that, apart from the labor involved in striking out such items, tho office bas always attached weight to the C'3rtiftcate of a chief of party ''that the account was coMect and just," and hence was not disposed to be critical in relation to the small sums here alluded to. It would seem to be the easiest course, however, for all concerned, to obtain receipts for every item, however small, in support of charges on personal vouchers, whenever possible to procure them, and when not so possible, to briefly state why. The only exception which may be made to this rule, if exception it may be called, is in the case of vouchers for traveling expenses, which are usually sworn to before competent legal authority. The irksome· ness of this requirement as to subreceipts is patent to all; but as it is based upon the direct action of the accounting officials of the Treasury, as indicated by the foregoing citations, it is not clear that remonstrance would result in relief. The three forms of vouchers most commonly in use by chiefs of pat-. ties are: "Form 2-General Voucher-Field," " Form 3-Trausportation :Voucher," and '' Porm 5-.A.bstract of Expenditures." For the purpose of bringing before the Conference, as a matter of record and for its offioii;tl action, if any is deemed necessary, the particular features

356

U. S. COAST A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

of the printed directions heretofore alluded to, they are here incorporated in regular order, as follows:
Fon~I 2-GE:o<ERAL VOUCHER-FIELD.

DIHECTIONS.

1. Signatures of firms or individuals signed "per" will not be llassed. 2. Whenever practicable, have vouchers made out by the persons signing them. 3. Assign nnmlJOrs to subvouchcrs or receipts, and rofor to them in the voucher by number. 4. 'When used as a personal voucher by chiefs of parties or their subordinates for other than their own ser\'ices and subsistence, support nil items by sub,·ouchers or receipts whenever practicable to obtain thelll. \VI.ten 11ot practicable, so state and give the reason therefor. 5. Always statf,l specifically the purpose of every expenditure. If for services, the capacity in which employed and the work upou whicb engaged. If for articles, state uso for which intended. · 6. To avoid a multiplicity of vouchers it is suggested that in namerous instances receipted bills could be obtained und the amounts thereof charged upon tho porsoual voucher of the chief of party, referring to the bill hy number, as heretofore stated. 7. All 1:1u\lvouchers or receipts should, if possible, be signed in ink. An. extra effort t<hould be made to this end. 8. Vouchers for' commutation of sullsisteucc must lie rendered in strict conformity ·with the Regulatious. 9. Make all explanationH in writing upon the face of tile vouchers. 10. Signatures by "X" arc only to bu made by persons unable to write their own names. When. made by "X" they must be witnessed. This applies to tiubvouchers and receipts as well as to regular formt1 of voucherR. 11. Vouchers for the 1mrchase of instrument!!, for repairs of instruments, or for ink and mucilage must be rendered in strict conformity to the Snperiuten.<lent's circular of October 29, 1891. Personal vouchers of chief!! of parties should be rendered for such expenditures, the items beini.t supported hY the receipted bills. 12. All vouchers must be itemized as completely as possible. Charges in "Jump" sums will not be allowed. 13. Charges for telegrams can only l>e allowed at Government rates, as per Department circulars issued from time to time. Tho number of word!! and names of places from and to which sent must be given on the voucher, or copies ~f tho telegrams must be furniHhed. 14. The provisions of prtragraph 53 of the Hcgnlations, in relation to accounts, must be strictly adhered to by all chiefs of parties to avoicl suspensions 'or disallowances in their vouchers. 15. All calculations for parts of n mouth mutit be made according to tho number of days of which the month consists. 16. In vouchers for hauliug and moviug equipments and materials give the number of loads and distance from place to place. 17. Per diem employees or hands can. not be paid salaries for Sundays unless service is actually rendered 011 that day. \Vhen service is so rendered by per diem employees (and charged for), a certificate to that effect must be written on tho face of the voucher. 18. All vouchers must beur date in the column on the left. 19. The price per unit of weight or measure must be statecl in all cases when.ever practicable. 20. In cases where damages for opening views, etc., are pa.id· for, either support the charge by a written agreement (with the person. claiming the damages), stating the nature and extent of damages, and his acceptance of a stated sum as a full relief

REPORT FOR 1893-P.A.RT II.

357

to the Government, or give iu detail, on the face of the voucher, the full particulars concerning the account uud the circumstnnces which demanded tho expenditure. 21. When rendered as 11 subvoucher iu uu abstract, the briefing on the back of this form must mvariobly be filled out. 22. Hereafter secure invoices uncl bills from firms and individuals furnishing supplies, etc., or rendering services (uot personal services), in acldition to the regular form of voucher, and attach them to their appropriate vouchers before transmitting the accounts to the disbursing ugent..
FonM 3-TRANSPOUTATION Voucmm. DIRECTIONS.

1. Copies or extracts from letters of instructions must lie written ou sepnrate sheets of paper nnd attachecl to the vouchers. Bo careful to give a full copy or extract, as the cn.se may be. 2. Give full name of railroad or steamboat company furnishing the transportation. When trans1iorted by other conveyances, so state. 3. The fare actually expencle d over each route must be charged. Do not "lump" the expenditures. 4. Charges for transportation over bonded aud laud-grant railroads will be disallowed. 5. Support all charges for meals and transportation of baggage by snbvouchers or receipts whenever practicuble to ohtniu them. 'Vheu not practicable so state and give the reason therefor. 6. Assign numbers to subvouchers or receipts, ancl refor to them in the voucher by number. 7. Only actual expenses of hoard 11nd lodging nre allowed while traveling. Secrotnry's circulnr of August 24, 1886, governs the present rates allowed for field officers. 8. Subvouchers or receipts must be fnrniHhed for nll hotel expenses nnd enrriage hire. Hotel bills must clenrl~· show the time of beginning and ending of the service charged for. 9. Expenditures for loonl field transportation must state specificany the purpose for wl1ich oach item of expenditure was macle, nnd must be confined strictly to the immediate locality of field work. Whon the uistance traveled is over 50 miles from locality of work, full explanation of the ne~~esRity therefor must be made. · 10. In organizing or disbanding a party, the members thereof cnn not be furnished transportation for a greater distance than 50 miles without i1revio11s special authority from the Suporiutendent. 11. 'Vhen tram1portation expenses of employees of a party are charged in the personal voucher of tho chief of party (and this course is recommended as avoiding confusion), give their names and furnish their acknowledgments, to be attached to the voucher, that thoy have received tho tmnsportation chnrgecl for. 12. 'Vhon employees of a party are traveling nloue upon special duty, away from the main pnrty (within the limit heretofore stated), thoy must render to the chief of party vouchers in their own names, duly sworn to by them, and 11111ipo1·ted by writtBn orders from tho chief of party. Ju these orders the Superintendent's instructions must bo quoted nnd the extract certifiecl to by the oltjcj of party. . 13. When clrnrges for actunl expenses while traveling nnd for commutation of enhs1steuce become interwoven upon any particular day an ndjustment must be effected upon the basis of four i1arts to a day-breakfast, dinner, supper, and lodging. 14. Actual expenses of board and lodging will not be allowed while traveling locally in tho routme of fielcl work to those receiving commuted or regular rates of subsistence incidental to field operations. 15. Traveling expenses between home and the ·office or suboffices not allowable.

358

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC S'URVEY.

16. The approval certificate of the Superintendent on the face of the voucher is intended to be filled out by him only when tile voucher is rendered separately and not included in an abstract. 17. All traveling-expense accounts must be sworn to before competent legal authority.
FORJ\l 5-ADSTRACT OJ!" EXPENDITURES.

I>IRECTIONS.

1. In entering vouchers upon the abRtract, arrange them in alphabetical order regardless of dates, writing tlie surname first in tile column headed "To whom paid." · 2. \Vhen working under two or more appropriations, render separate abstract.a for each. 3. When vouchers are suspende<l and returne<l for correction, always transmit supplemental abRtracts (in duplicate), dated the same as the originals, to cover the suspended vouchers. 4. Monthly abatracts must be given date of the last day of the mouth in the receipts. When renderr,d for portions of u. month, the latest date in the subvouchers may be used. · 5. Vouchers for expenditures made in one month must not be included in the abstract for another month. Hender a separate abstract for such vouchers, and attach thereto a written explanation of tho delay in transmitting tho account. 6. Be careful to observe that the abstract!! are signed before transmitting tho accounts to the disbursing clerk. Abstracts must be signed by chief!! of parties in their official capacity. 7. The blank space in the center of the face of the abstract must not be written over by chiefs of parties, nor must the briefing on tho back of tho abstracts be filled out by them. 8, The dates of tho vouchers must be inserted in tho abstract, notwithstanding that they are arranged alphabetically. · 9. All vouchers embraced within abstracts must be briefed on the back and numbered, beginning with the number 1 (one) in each abstract. 10. Separate abstracts must be rendere<l for "party expenses" and "repairs of vessels."

It has been the custom of the disbursing office from time to time, as points arose in the adjustment of accounts or new decisions thereon were made by the accountiug officials, to change the terms of these directions so as to have them correspond to the new conditions. Such changes are made usually when a new edition of any particular form is required for issue. · A few additional ·suggestions or comments may not be out of place in thfs connection, in view of their bearing upon individual responsibility and the saving of much unnecessary loss of time aud useless labor. Whenever practicable, it is recommended that cl.liefs of parties deposit the moneys advanced to them for party and other expenses in some regularly designated governmental depository, if too remote to open an account with the Treasurer or a subtreasury. A list of designated depositories for public moneys among the national banks located in every State and Territory in the Union will be furnished by the dis· bursing office upon application. The particular advantage of this plan is that it will save chiefs of parties much trouble iu their dealings with

REPORT FOR. 1898-PART II.

.359

incorporated or uniI;lcorporated companies in the matter of obtaining certificates of authority for officers to sign for the companies. Such oocounts, when paid by a check drawn on the Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, or other depository of the United States, in the name of the corporation as payee, stating such fact on the face of the voucher and giving the number of the check, will not require evidence of authority for signature to be filed with them. One of the acl vantages of keeping moneys advanced on deposit with a governmental depository is thus made apparent. Another is that it affords a complete record of all disbursements, as the checks drawn on a governmental depository, when presented and paid, are not returned to the officer issuing them, but are permanently retained in the files of the deposit-0ry. It is, of course,. understood that in many cases this course of making deposits can not be adopted, owing to the remote and isolated locations of the field work. 'Under such conditions the chief of party accepts the full responsibility under bis bond for the safe-keeping of the public funds intrusted,to him. In the case of original checks lost, stolen, or destroyed, the Revised Statutes prescribe that a duplicate may be issued after the expiration of six montbs from the date of issue of the original check, but only under such regulations as may be adopted by the Secretary of the Treasury. The depository upon which drawn should be at once notified of the loss of' a check, and request made that payment thereof be stopped; after which, chiefs of parties should make application to the Superintendent for blank forms aud tho necessary instructions as to the method of procedure to be followed in securing duplicate of the lost check. In tho rendition of accounts to tho disbursing agent for settlement, chiefs of parties should state tho balanc.es, on account of moneys advanced, duo that officer, or, if there is no such balance due, they should state tho amount which may be due them upon settlemEW.t. In other words, each chief of varty when rendering bis monthly accounts should transmit with them au account current, transcribed from his books, showing his financial status with the Survey based upon the moneys advanced him and the nmount of his accounts as rendered. Form 10, letter transmitting accounts, will be found by chiefs of parties a convenient means of complying with the routine here suggested. When forwarding moneys as au advance to chiefs of parties, or when making deposits to their official credit at any governmental depository, the disbursing agent should, in his transmitting le~ters and notifications of_ such action, invariably state the amount due him on account of advances, at the date ther'eof, according to his books; e.nd chiefs of parties should be careful to respond to such statements and acknowl· edge or correct the amounts therein stated. Such acknowledgments are of great value to the disbursing agent in the event of au examination of his office by Treasury.officials. They are, moreover, an excellent check in the event of errors occurring in the statement of balances.

a

360

U. S. COAST. AND GEODE'.rIC SURVEY.

Correctness in entries, extensions and additions of all abstracts and other vouchers, will invariably insure a more speedy settlement of the accounts. If the observations made herein in relation to the disbursement of public moneys and the methods of aecounting for the same prove of service, the purpose of this paper will have been attained.
JOIIN

vV. PARSONS,

Disbursing A.gent.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE I, ON THE MEASUREMENT OF ARCS.

The measurements of ar.cs or the earth's surface are indispensable for the determination of a geometrical figure which in sltape and size should approximate most closely to the figure of the earth as a whole. Such measures have been uudertaken, either expressly or only indirectly, in connection with surveys made by leading nations within the boundaries of their countries; and in the latter case either the general figure or one more closely fitting the actual region was made use of fo1 the development of the tnangnlation on the limited part of the surface. It is otherwise when large areas, such as the surface of North America, or even that covered by the territory of the United States, are concerned. Here the importance of the measurement of arcH becomes apparent in order to furnish the shape and dimensions of that geometric osculatory figure which best represents the particular snrface in question and upon which it is desired to develop the triangulation, which latter is the foundation for exact measures of relative geographic position on the earth's surface. Until the representative or special figure can be determined, and as a means of furnishing the needed material for its elucidatiop, the work of the triangulation, constituting the basis of ·a survey, can (as in the ease of the Coast and Geodetic Survey of the United States) be prose cuted by making use of a spheroid fairly approximatiI1g to the earth's figure. The resulting positions can arnl do have a satisfactory degree ofaccuraey. Hence it will be seen that the measurement of arcs may be regarded as in a measure incidental to the operations of a trigonometrical survey of an extended country. In this way originated the several arcs developed by the Coast and Geodetic Survey up to this time. Other prospective arcs, more or less desirable or feasible, will be pointed out further on. A further reason why this Conference has taken into eonsideration the matter of arc measures is the circumstance that by joining the International Geodetic Association for the measurement of arcs·-in other words, for the determination of the earth's :figure-the United States have incurred certain scientific obligations which demand attention from this Survey.
·Seo 11.ct of Congress of February 5, 1889.

REPORT FOR ·1893-PART II.

361

.F'or convenience and distinction arcs may be classified as arcs of the meridian, of the parallel, and oblique arcs. Of these the first and second are now, since the introduction of the telegraphic method of measuring differences of longitude, of nearly equal importance as far as obtainable accuracy is concerned. The third class may be regarded, theoretically at least, as composed of part of the first and part of the second kil1d. The value of an arc depends mainly on its extent, position (with respect to latitude), accuracy of measure, and number of subdivisions. The more numerous the latter the greater the chance that the local deflections of the vertical may be neutralized and the results be freed from a source of error which up to this time has been the main cause of discord subsisting between the several arc measures as well as between their several parts when combinecl for a resulting geometric figure. This paper has no space nor is there the least necessity for going into the history of arc measures, or even to refer to the great measures accomplished by England, France, and I~ussia, aml our remarks will be confined to the subject-matter in relation to the Coast and Geodetic Survey. A few arcs have so far been measured in this conn try, but none have been completed, or, at least, all are capable of extension. Appendix No. G of the Coast Survey Heport for 1877 contains an account of tw.o, both of the meridian: The Nantucket arc, 30.37 in length, with 6 subdivisions; the Pamlico-Chesa}leake arc, 40.52 in length, with 13 subdivisions; and in order to obtain some information as to tho curvature of the snrface in these parts these were combined with tho Peruvian arc, 3°·12 in extent ancl without subdivisions. No specific difference in the curvature of the \Vcstorn Hemisphere from that of the Eastern was indicated, but a change from the use of the Besselian spheroid of revolution (of 1841) to that of Clal'lrn (of 1866) was indicated by the above combination as desirable. The substitution of tho latter figure for the development of our tria.ng·ulation was approved by the Superintendent on February 4, 1880. No publication has yet been made of the oblique arc extending along the North Atlantic coast from the llauadian boundary to the Gulf of Mexico. The length of the completed part between Eastport, Me., and Montgomery, Ala., is nearly 21i0 , or about 2 252 kilq_metres. It will, when extended to the Gulf, reach 22~0, and possibly it may be extended northeasterly through the Dominion of Canada to Cape Breton Island. A preliminary computation of part of this arc also favored the change of the spheriod of reference mentioned above. In volume No. 24 of Professional Papers by the United States I~ngineers· the United States Lake Survey gives the results of the measure of two arcs, one a meridional one, between
·Primary Triangulation, U.S. Lake Survey, ·washington, D. C., 1882.

362

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

St. Ignace, on the northern shore of Lake Superior, and Parkersburg, Ind. Its length is 100·21, with 9 subdivisions. The other arc is considerably inclined to the parallel and extends over 11°·79 of longitude, from Wplow Spring, near Chicago, Ill., to Mannsville, at the east end of Lake Ontario, New York. It is composed of 3 sub~arcs. The meridional arc will in time be extendetl to the Gulf of Mexico. The old arc of 1764 in Marylaud and Delaware, known as Mason and Dixon's Line, here deserves but a passing mention as the first arc measured in ~ orth America. It was 1°·48 in length, and was measured with wooden rods throughout.· The desirability and necessity of a geodetic connection of the triangulations of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts were first pointed out in 1870 by the then Superintendent of the Survey, Prof. Benjamin Peirce. (See Coast Survey Ueport for 1870, p. 4.) In the following year the measurement of the parallel of :39° between Cape l\1ay, New Jersey, and Point Arena, Califoruia, ·was commenced, and at the time of writing (January, 1894) but a small gap of triangulation west of Pikes Peak, Colorado, remains to be filled up. The total length of this arc of the parallel is 48°·78 of longitude, or about 4 2!W kilometres (very nearly 2626 statute miles). It is subdivided at present into 19 subarcR, for all of which the telegraphic longitude work is completed. Interspersed in this triangulation are a great number of astronomical latitude and azimuth stations; and a series of base lines, some yet to be measured, sustain the accuracy of the linear dimensions. For the measure of the earth's curvature at right angles to the above parallel an arc of the meridian in about longitude 98° west of Greenwich has been proposed. Of this central arc 22°·92, or 2 544 kilometres, will be within the boundaries of the Uniteu States, between the Rio Grande and the ·northern boundary. It is capable of extension southward 100, through Mexico to the Pacific Ocean at Point Sacrificios, and northward through Canada and the British Possessions to an unknown distance. An arc of tho meridian in longitude 1120 may be suggested; of this, 3° have already been measured in the vicinity of Salt Lake, Utah. On the western coast an arc of the meridian can be established in longitude 120~0, from the Santa Barbara Channel to the northern boundary of'the United States, a distance of about wo. That part of the boundary of California and Nevada oblique to the meridian would lend itself well to ·an inclined are about 5fO in length, with a capacity of extension to 15° within our boundary. Besides the central arc of the parallel already referred to, two other arcs of the parallel of great longitudinal extent have been projected, viz, the northern one, in latitude 46°, and the southern one, in latitude 330. (See accompanying map, illustration No. 14, on which the several arcs are located.)
*Phil. Trnus. Roy. Soc. for 1768.

U.S . Co«.SC and Ge<>tfeti.:. Surw:y ReporL ror 1893 _ l'brt 0

.Arcs, m.easu.red uru:l projected. -wi.lhin, tAe limits or close f.o its border
·OS' ·00'

or the United States

... I I

oo·

. T ;\-;--n
\

..

\

1'o Reporl of' Geoc(.etic Conleren.ce - No. il, .
'1:0'

-

-\

..;>-;.-

...,

..
~

c~' ~.
1--

l>
'll
J_

\

.....

'"':

\
..._ I

/:.,

I

~

'111.

.....

. r- ·-. ·-.. ..,·-.L.J

J~
I

'"':

'!'

c
r;

~
~

I

7

.. ')

\
I
~. «

'

7

-+
/

GI UL

F

~,,~
\ I
\

~

~- ~ -
. '\~\;~.
....... ~
'_

·

I

~-

?·c3

Tl"' Mcn</c,,..h,,ll , Supe1·1nten.dtl!n.J..

Ba ..,e Map

or t ht> United
1893
51aLl.'Le '-41lca
~

States

r·

( Pr·ojeclrd nn intersecting cone)

1211--

.......

~.

-

--

I q

\j'
l

Kiln'"rrrt~

"'

,f:.,....,...

.....

u.~

J_ ___ _

\

~

Pboto~Llth IJYA HU>:N

de: CO . 8 :1Jr 11 Mrl

REPORT FOR 1893-PART JI.

368

The desirability of a remeasurement and extension of the arc of Peru (1735-1743) was pointed out in 1877,· and again in 1889.t Fortunately for the progress of geodesy, this arc appears to be nearly correct;. ·otherwise, by reason of the possible effect of local deflections of the vertical at its two terminal latitude stations, it might have e;x:ercised a retardmg influence. Researches respecting the earth's figure made since the publication of' Captain Clarke's Dimensions of the Spheroid (Loudon, 1866)f, which were adopted by this Survey, give smaller values than 211/:V't for the . a-c compression -a-· Dr. Helmert, in 1887, gives for his reference spheroid fllh"F>· F. Tis· seran<l, in his Traitf\ de Mechanique Oeleste, Tome II, Paris, 1891, shows that under certain plausible hypotheses as. to increase of density with depths and as to original fluidity the :flattening can not exceed 29'r-s1 and Prof. W. Harkness in his essay, "The solar p:irallax and its related constants," Washington, D. O., 1891, arrives at the result 1101F:fo-t±,F1nr·., thus approximating again to the values assigned in earlier times by Airy (1830) and Bessel (1841), about ii9fi'1l· The Conference recommends that the spheroid adopted by the Survey be adhered to as being sufficiently close to any other value that could now be assigned or is likely to be assigned in the near future, and that the subject of the arc measures be kept m prominent view in connection with the progress of the Survey; also that all linear measures be expressed in terms of the prototype metre and that a direct comparison be made of the lengths of the committee metre and the national prototype. H.espectfully submitted to the Geodetic Conference. CHAS. A. ScHOTT, Chairman. G. R PUTNAM, Secretary.
JANUARY

23 1 1894,

REPORT OF COMMITTEE

J ON MAGNETICS.

A study of the laws governing the various magnetic forces is naturally connected with the work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and a thorough knowledge of them is indispensable in order1. To supply its charts with information of the mag~1etic variations at the dates of issue, together with tile prosp~ctive annu~l change. 2. Incidentally to facilitate the proper adjustment of the compass
~Const

Survey Report for 1877, p. 95. . . t Const and Geodetic Survey Heport for 1889, Appendix 1\o. 7. ;Viz: a=637820G·4m ~ wbioh wo now take as expressed in terms of the Internac = 63513583·8 I tionul Metro.

364

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

in ascertaining local deviation on board ship, for heeling, and different positions of the vessel. For these and other purposes it is necessary to study the laws of terrestrial magnetism as well as determine absolutely its several forms or components of declination, dip, and intensity. The distribution of this force is dependent not alone upon the time and the geographical position, but is influenced by many local disturbances; hence the imperative necessity, in -order to supply our charts with compass bearings, that the study of magnetism should cover at least the entire seacoast of the United States; and in order to produce the lines defining the direction and intensity of these forces to the required limit seaward for a certain epoch there arises the further need of extending the observations a sufficient distance inland. 3. To meet the constant demand made upon the Survey by surveyors, engineers, and courts of law in every part of the country for information, generally for the recovery of old lines or landmarks. And for this purpose a further and more complete study of these forces, covering the entire area of the country, is demanded. ' 4. To meet the necessity for an accurate knowledge of the dip and intensity of the magnetic force arising from the researches of science and the practical application of them by electricians in the measurement of the closely allied forces of electricity. To meet these demands it is obviously important to construct from time to time (say once each ten years) isomagnetic charts to represent the then existing state of distribution of this still mysterious force. The Survey has already1. Made direct observations of declination, dip, and horizontal force in many widely distributed places. 2. It has carefully collected observations from all available sources whatever, from the earliest to the present time. 3. It has made a special study o.f the laws of terrestrial magnetism by means of photographic registration at especially selected places, to be changed after about seven years of continuous occupation to a new place (so as to cover at least more than one-half of the sun-spot period), and always placed in localities most remote from those where the best magnetic observations had previously been made. Except the occasional changing of stations for photographic registration, this is in conformity with tpe practice in other-countries. 4. It has afforded assistance to magnetic surveys undertaken by States or private individuals by the loan of instruments and in other ways. 5. It has endeavored to elucidate the multiplicity of laws governin'g these forces and to dissemina,te them for general information in the publications of the Survey.

REPORT FOR 1893-PA.RT II.

365

METHODS .A.ND INSTRUMENTS OF THE COAST A.ND GEODE'.l'IC SURVEY .A.S COMP.A.RED WITH TIIOSE OF O'.l'HER COUNTRIES.

Since the time of the great physicist Gilbert of Colchester, who showed the earth to be a great magnet, about the year 1600, magnetic theories and graphical results have been diligently worked out; and as time bas passed these efforts have been more minute and complete. Magnetic observations have been systematically carried on in Great Britain, France, Austria, Germany, Russia, Japan, India, Australia, Mexico, Canada, the United States, and other countries. Tiley also formed part of the pwogramme of every scientifically organized Arctic expedition; and the United States, in the years 1881-1884, assumed the responsibility of occupying two of the stations of the cordon which, under international auspices, girdled the pole for the purpose of studying, among other points of physical interest, the laws of magnetism in that important region. In this country, in addition to the work of the Coast and Geodetic Sur>ey; New Jersey has been surveyed magnetically by the State, and the State of Missouri by individual enterprise. A report on the Inst has been published by Prof. Ii'. E. Ni pher. The instruments employed in these surveys are essentially similar in principle, although differing in the detail of construction as well as iu size and weight. 'fhere is no means of deciding as to the relative values of the results obtained in difforent countries, and any comparison must deal with meth~ds and instruments only. A description of some of the instruments used in other countries may be interesting, and for this purpose some of the instruments used in H.ussia, England, Italy, and France have been selected. All are of recent date. The Russian Universal instrument is described by Dr. "\Vild in the publications of the Imperial Academy of Sciences.· It is remarkable for great size among other instruments of the kind, carrying 20°m (8-inch) azimuth and vertical circles, the torsion head risiug a full metre above the leveling foot screws. Tlie telescope is firmly attached to an elliptical collar at one end of its greater axis. A hollow cylindrical counterpoise is attached to the opposite end of the axis. The axes of the telescope are at the ends of the shorter a.xes and rest in Y's. The axes are extended beyond the Y's, and carry on one end a vertical circle and on the other two long arms immovably secured to the axis, which carry two microscopes 1800 apart for pointing upon the ends of the needle when observing the dip or inclination of the needle. A broad horizontal support at the base of the Y supports carries at one end, outside the Y's, a clamp and verniers, and at the opposite. end a circular metallic case in which is mounted the dip needle, while on the
..
.-

....

-

··-···

--

---

..

- --

··-

----- -- ----··

"Publications of Russian Imperial Academy of Sciences, 1872, Pu.rt III, No. 2.

366

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

center of the support, and rising through the elliptical collar of the telescope, is the box containing a declination needle, surmounted by the long tube supporting the needle. The stirrup carrying the magnet is provided with a mirror, perpendicular and at right angles to the axis of the magnet. When observing, a pointing is made by observing the cross threads, illuminated by a ray of light (which enters the telescope through a slit near the eye), reflected by the mirror to the eye. The magnet is rectangular, 6cm (2:\- inches) long, 6m 111 (i inch) wide, and about 1·5mm h1tr inch) thick, fitting snugly in an opening designed for it. A collar fitted to the stirrup, nearly 1 i~h above the magnet, carries the inertia ring during oscillatio~s. To reverse tho magnet the stirrup and mirror are reversed. A scale in tho focus of the eyepiece of the telescope serves to measure the length of vibrations, etc. In observations for inclination the telescope is turned in the Y's until the microscopes at one end of the axis are directly over the poles of the needle, when the angle is read on the vertical circle on the other end of the axis. The dip needle is easily lifted and reversed by a clever device without opening the case, which has a gla,ss front. When observing for azimuth, or even upon the mark, the box containing magnet suspended must be removed. No weight is given, but it is evident that such an instrument, properly boxed, would perhaps not weigh less than 70 kilogrammes (154 pounds). The objections to this im;trument, if the brief 'description available has been rightly underst-Ood, are1. Its great weight. 2. The necessity of removiug box to observe mark as well as to observe the azimuth. 3. The necessity of removing suspension tube in order t-0 suspend or remove the magnet. 4. The instability of the microscopes for poi uting on the dip needle The Engl-ish instrument· is mounted on a principle essentially the same as the Coast and Geodetic Survey magnetometer, differing, however, in one important particular-the telescope is fixed in a horizontal position and pointing to the center of suspension of the declination magnet, and the azimuth of the sun is obtained by observing its image reflected in a mirror. The magnets are similar in ·size and construction to those heret-Ofore used in this country. The only objections to this instrument are: The necessity in this country for securing accurate time for azimuth by observations, thus requiring another instrument; the necessity of placing the mark in the horizontal plane of the telescope, which is seldom convenient, and the difficulty and annoyance attending the. adjustment of the mirror. The Kew dip circle, used both in England and America, is too familiar to require any description. The weight of the magnetometer in its box is about 23 kilogrammes (50 pounds).
"Eucyclopi.cdia Britannica,

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

367

The magnetometer used by the Frep,ch · is quite different in d~tail from any other. It is also an altazimuth instrument, and requires no changing or removing of any of its parts. The circles are 8°111 (3·15 inches) in diameter, graduated to half degrees, and read by verniers to minutes. .A rectangular frame on the ax.is of the azimuth circle carries all the other parts on one side, and outside the telescope is mounted, and attached to its axis is the vertical circle. Also attached to the axis . of the telescope, and rigidly adjusted parallel to it, is an index arm, at the end of which is a silvered index having three equidistant lines drawn perpendicularly on its outer face, and a single line just opposite the center line on its inner surface. The magnet is a solid cylinder 6·5cm long, 4mm in diameter, and weighs about 7·5 grammes. Its ends are slightly concave and polished to a reflecting surface. There is a microscope for pointing on each end of the magnet: A single fiber of silk about ucm (4·33 inches) long suspends the magnet. Observations for declination are made by bringing the line on the inside of the index, as reflected from the mirror end of the magnet, to coincide with the middle line on the outside of the index when seen t11rough the microscopes; and pointings are made on the mark or on the sunforazimnth with the telescope. Inasmuch as the needle and tlle mark are observed with different lines of sight, it is evident that with the best adjustment there must remain some uncertainty of their parallelism; and this index error could only be determined by observing at a well-determined station. The principal mechanical objection to this instrument is this index error and the danger that it may not remain constant. Another objection is the use of glass to protect the magnet from air currents, dust, etc. The French dip circle has also two circles, vertical and azimuth, each gem (3·15 inches) in diameter. An arm, carrying concave mirrors, is swung around under the point of the needle, and the circle, to which the microscopes are rigidly attached is turned by a slow-mot1oned screw until the points, as reflected fron; the zero mark on the mirrors, coincide with the point seen direct, thus insuring a most accurate pointing, free from parallax. This is most excellent in theory, but in practice it is probable that the unsteadiness of the ueedle will exceed the probable error of a pointing on it by other methods. This instrument, packed in its case, w-0ighs only 2 kilogrammes (4 pounds). A magnetometer used in ltalyt presents at least one novel feature. It· is an altazimuth instrument, constructed much ~ike ours, except that a broken telescope is used. This permits the telescope to. be revolved in its Y's, and a mark niay be observed at a point opposite to the magnet without disturbing the box.
"Moreaux, Magnetic Elements iu Fro.nee, 1885. See also Nature for Jan.12, 1888. tPublica.tions of the Royal Observatory at Modena, 1893, No. 1.

368

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUH.VEY.

The magnetometer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in its usual ·form has been described elsewhere.· The latest instruments are provided with magnets, octagonal in form, thus facilitating their mauipulation when being reversed and making it easier to place the inertia ring. Another improvement is the removal of the glass from the box front, and the employment of a shutter at the back of the box, which may be opened when observing on the mark.t The weight of the new magnetometers, boxed, the box containing also the tripod head, is about 18 kilogrammes (40 pounds). The dip circle weighs about 13 kilogrammes (25 pounds). All the instruments examined have suitable provision for deflections. · It will be seen that the :French instruments are by far the lightest of those examined. 'fhey are also the simplest in construction. They could easily be carried as hand bag-gage when moving from station to station. Next in order of weigllt and facility of manipulation come the instruments of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The lightness a11d simplicity of the French instruments highly commend them for work in a country like ours, where cost of transportation is a most important part of the expense of magnetic surveys; aud in order to give them a fair test by actual use we recommend the purchase of one or more of them for the use of the Coast aud Geodetic Survey. It may be well to allude to the compass declinometer, which is the old azimuth compass in a slightly new dress, designed to measure declinations only. Properly in adjustment, and its iudex error known, this instrument gives very accordant and .satisfactory results. The index error is often very large (more than 1°,) but this is of no consequence. It is, 110\nwer, liable to chauge, aud as it can not be determined in the field it is au objectionable feature. Comparison has been made at the oflicc respectiug the moment of inertia of the magnet aud its appendages, as depending 011 computation from known dimensions and weights, with the indirect met!Jod from oscillations, with and without the inertia ring. Hesults thus far have proved that the two methods agree within about 2 per cent of the whole value. Further investigation in this direction will be made.
METHODS OF l\IA.KING M.A.GNE'.l'IC SURVEYS IN lHFFEREN'.l' CO'L"NTIUES.

Countries have been surveyed magnetically, either by a rapidly executed survey, covering the eutire area of the country in a brief period, with the expectation· of repeating the surveys after au interval of onefourth tO one-third of a century, thus bringing out by comparison the secular changes due to the intervai; or observations have been continuously made, and the results were gradually i;:ollected, reduced to the eppch adopted, and cliscnssed. The former process answers well for a country of limited extent, as,_ for instance, Bngland or France, where
----·-------·-----------"See Const Survey Report, 1881, Appendix 8. t See magnetometer used in ,J apnn, described in tho J our1ml of the College of Sciences, Imperial University of Japan, Vol. II, Part 3, 1888.

REPORT POR 1893-PAHT II.

369

this method has been employed; but for the great area of the United States it could not be carrie<l out within a reasonable time, say iu from two to five years. The second method was therefore adopted of necessity. It carries with it tho continued study of tho laws of secular variation. It is very important in selecting sites for i;tations to avoid all probable disturbing iutluences from railroads, telegraph a111l telephone wires, or electric car or light wires; and also to consider the probabilities of their recovery for future occupation. These consiucratious poiut to tho necessity for the selection of stations outside of cities or villages. We recommenu the issue as soon as may he practicable of a, second edition of Directions for Measurement of Terrestrial l\fagnetism, containiug such modifications and a(lditions as new or improved methods or im;truments may have suggested. That more systematic observations of all the magnetic forces be made at many points throughout tho country where data are now lackiug; in particular throughout the States of California, Oregon, \Yashington, Idaho, Montana, and the Dakotas, preferably by someone who shall devot-0 his whole time to this work; also, that no opportunity be allowed to pass for securing observations along tlw vast coast regions of Alaska, and for reoccupying stations for collecting necessary uata for determining tho secular change. That as soon as may be desirable a second edition of the isoclinic, isodynamic, and isogonic curves be published for an epoch close at hand, say 1895 or moo, together with the data, the method of discussion, and explanations of the results and their uses. We recommend that each main triangulation and astronomical party be supplied with a complete instrumental outfit for determining declination, dip, and intensity; and also that all other triangulation parties be furni~hed with a compass declinometer, and that observations of declination be made at each station occupied. J. J. GILBERT, Chairman.
H. J,. FARIS, Sccrcta.ry.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE K ON GRAVITY.

The study of tho force of gravity as a part of tho geodetic problem has received the attention of the Coast and Geodetic Survey for some years, and although its work in tho past ha8 in a measure been experimental it has developed instruments aml methods of observation which will enable it to enter successfully upon extended gravimetric research at less cost than would have been possible with the older processes, and that without lowering the standard of accuracy.·
"See Determinntions of Gravity, by T. C. MondeJlbnll, Appendix ~o. lii, C. uud G. Survey Report for 1891, Part II. S, EJ;. 191 pt. 2-24

370

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Ever since the promulgation by Clairaut of his celebrated theorem, one hundred and fifty years ago, the pendulum has been regarded as a most efficient means for the investigation of the shape of the earth. It appears to be the general opinion of the enlightened nations of the world engaged in geodetic operations that any survey that would disregard gravimetric rescareh as au important and necessary branch of inquiry would fall short of a complete geodetic survey. The earlier gravitational work of the Survey was of necessity of an experimental character, as stated above, involving such considerations as the character oftlie pendulum, with respect to absolute and relative measures, its best form, size, and material, as well as the method of observing. The several instrumental reductions to normal condition had to be studied both theoretically aud practically. At this stage. of the work differeutial comparison of gravity between American and European standard stations of absolute measures were instituted, aud in connection with this work of the Survey, iu 1875-76, it had become evident that the flexure of the pendulum support during its swings was a grave source of error. It accordingly received a thorough investigation so that corrections could be given to observations made on certain stands and under certain conditions. At the instance of the Superintendent of tho Survejy, a conference on gravitation measures was lleld at Washiugton, D. c., in )fay, 1882, having for its object to devise a plan for the prosecution of the observations and for tl1e improvement of the pendulum apparatus. Your committee is of the opinion that the time for an active prosecution of field work llas come, especially as the Survey is now well prepared, both by experience and equipment, to carry on these investigations. Its relation to the International Geodetic Association renders it desirable that this Survey should conform, as far as may be practicable, to the general plan of work followed, and that Jt should therefore contribute its share to the gravity research. That determinations of gravity are essential to a complete geodetic survey, as well as of great interest in connection with geological problems, is sufficiently attested by the action shown by many of the leading nations in extending their gravimetric surveys in recent times. Thus far over 500 stations have been determined in various parts of the world, of which a large proportion were occupied in the last few years, showing the active increase of interest in these researches. In the United States 27 stations have been determined by tho Coast and Geodetic Survey and 9 by foreign observers. The Survoy has also occupi<>d 29 stations in foreign countries, taking advantage of various astronomical expeditions. The English have made a series of determinations in their country, and have, moreover, sent expeditions for this purpose to various parts of the world. In India they have carried out a very systematic scheme of gravity work in connection with the Great Trigonometrical Survey.

United SUdes Pendulum. Stadons
1: SCoast and <JcodPl<r Surn,yRc1wr·t rur UJ93. Fbd IJ

-N -r:-· -D \

. '
l

\ -1

..

To Reporl or Geo clelic Conter e n.ce _ No. 15
'1!< "

\

\~-·
~

-...

~
l, \
~

y I···

l'
""O

~ II
~~
I..,
I

I

......

'

' ,"
'4-- ~

-------~

\

!

I

I

,....._

"'
0
('"\

~'i ~ ·.,1
I

I
ll

9¥L
·
TC. Afcncle,"'4lt,S~rin.te1uknt

,..

0

,..

,\f

J::

x

("

(~

I

I

.. .

~·> t.-i--"'''\
~

~. ,. w

···· ....

" , ''-'\
0

,,
1

0

'_ _

Base Map ort11e United States
(Projected on
1

0

U. S. Observers Foreign, Obse\''ers @ U.S. wul.Fbreign,Observers
O

\

c1

-·er

ntersecting contt)

1893
S1at\ol le Miles
r.---.:~ ~

...

,,..

--10.

- i
C:
ho

.M<11·1<.o

J:'T.""t
L

-,;.

a,

Kiiometre· Ho .. ,,

~

\q
L
Md

Mi

\

--~-

Photo .. Llth by .A HO.EN d' C"O . 8:!/M

n
'
I

/J S.Coast and ,Geodet\''urwry}'eporl u~t.n
\ \ B,.«o"'

,\;>./G

I I

I
I

I

;,~ - · - - - ---..,,

·~St.Ma~thew I.

·l·St.Paul I.
o St. Geor<ja I .

--tI
·· d

,/

Pen.du.l.u.m, S. .tations
UL

,/

,/,/

t

JP~~ nalts k... I.
·

o~-

/

. Ala_ska,
and adjoining region,
U. S. ObseT">'ers

@ U.S. a.n..d- Forer':Jn. Obser'l'ers
no·
1i.o·

//
30'

PendlilJ1m Swiions in Europe
".,." 17
-~--

', i
'

, /

,/
f~

/ A.,

I

I

'I",_
\\ /r'~\ '·· ,~ ;~1
'\
./1'-

/
'

/

'-,
'-

/·

v
\

// /

,,,.,,.
/

)
t.>1

'\',
v··'
r<'

\

~
'

:
)

,

"·

__,-/

\

'/-'
I

'

,

, ,

I
\-~·

~too

.

,,.'I I

-,_"
/
'I

.

r -'

~f..

,

I

I

I

I

I

/

~-

. I
i

)l

"',-I
I

,

I

!

~
\

\
__ ... -~\

\

[-----;, " _____ _ L _

~ 7'~---I
{/

----/-

I

I

\·

'

I I

\
I

_______ __i___________ '\

REPORT FOR 18!13-PART II.

371

In France the Service G6ographique has perfected new apparatus, and has made a series of pendulum observations in various parts of France, Algeria, the United States, and other countries. In Austria the Geographische Institut has made numerous determinations with extremely portable apparatus, and has investigated particularly the effect of gravity disturbances on lines of precise leveling, and .also the question of the density of the earth. Some of' its apparatus has also been sent to the far north on naval expeditions, as well as to other countries. In Russia systematic gravity observation!:! have been and are still being made in connection with the great triangulation scheme of that country. Italy, Sweden, Switzerland and other countries are carrying on simliar investigatioi1s. Illustrations Nos. 15, 10, 17, indicate the location of' stations already determined in Europe, the United States, and Alaska.
DESCRIP'.l'ION oi~ APPARATUS.

The improveu pendulum apparatus of the Survey was designed with a special view to its portability, and in general principles is a modification of that used iu Austria by Herr vou Sterneck, though differing in many details. (For full description see Appendix No. 15, Report for 1891.) The.pendulums have a period of about half a second and are of the invariable type, being desig·ned only for relative determinations. The periods are obtained with precisior1 by observations of coincidences with a break-circuit chronometer by means of electrical and optical devices. The pendulums, of which three constitute a set, are made of alloy of copper and aluminum, with agate plane (swiuging on an agate knife edge), aud are swung in au air-tight receiver at or near a standard atmospheric pressure. Coefficients for temperature, pressure, and elasticity of support have been determined experimentally, so that observations may be reduced to uniform conditions. Arcs of oscillatfon not exceeding 40' (total) aro now used, and swings of four hours or more may be observed without difficulty. A recent improvement permits the arc to be read directly in the observing telescope: The apparatus may be mounted on a pier or operated without difficulty directly on the floor or ground. The method of observing permits of a ready application of the telegraphic plan of determining tho difference in the force of gravity between two places (already used in Europe); that is, the comparison of pendulums at distant stations connected by wire using· the same timepiece, or, to eliminate change in tho line, a timepiece at each station alternately. Two methods of using the apparatus are therefore available. In the first the periods of a set of pendulums will be determined at a base station and then at various other stations, the chronometer being rated by time observations. In the second two sets of pendulums at distant stations will be comvared telegraphically, starting from a base station

372

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC. SURVEY.

as before. As the second plan avoids the necessity for time observations and the errors due to change in rate of chronometers, it is of course to be preferred whenever practicable. In either case the determination of a station ueed not take more than a fow clays. A still more portable apparatus is proposed and is 11ow being constructed, the pendulums having a period of but one-fourth of a second, and the various parts being correspondingly reduced in size.
PltOPOSED OUTLINE OF INVESTIGA'l'IONS.

The following general outline of a plan for a gravimetric survey in connection with the geodetic operations of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in the U nitcd States is submitted for consideration: First. To ascertain the geographical distribution of gravity within the United States with respect to latitude, elevation, and geological structure, it is pro1)osed to make pendulum observations at a rmmber of stations extending from the mouth of the Mississippi up its valley to the shores of Lake Michig-an and the northern boundary, and also at a similar seri'es of stations at distances of about 1° from each other along the thirty-ninth parallel, from Cape May to Point Arena.· It is further suggested that a number of localities of especial interest should be investigated, as the basin of· the prehistoric Lake Bonneville, the two great depressions in southern California, where stations may be located several hundred feet below the sea level, some of the great eroded valleys of the western plateau, the volcanic region of the Yellow· stone Park, and the vicinity of the mouths of the large silt-bearing rivers-the Mississippi and the Colorado. Under the assumption of a rigid crust, the enormous quantities of alluvium transported and deposited by these rivers must, on account of a specific gravity at least twice as great as water, show quite a sensible excess of gravity. The results from these stations, if studied in conjunction with corresponding series of observations scattered through the upper drainage basins of the ()olorado and Missouri rivers and along the crest line of the Continental Divide, would probably not fail to throw much light upon the truth or fallacy of the doctrine of isostasy, as well as the questions in regard to the deflection of the plumb line. The doctrine of isostasy has claimed the attention of geologists to Ruch an extent, in connection with the continental problem, that the i>roof of the existence or nonexistence of regions in which there is an excess or deficiency of gravity within the domain of the United States would not fail to of much interest to them. The behavior of gravity over tlle continental plateau, rising locally to an elevation of about 3 300m (11 000 feet) and more above the level of the sea, the origin of these plateaus, their permanency or rise and fall in the course of ages, are questions which, although as yet shrouded in mystery, will never cease to claim the deepest. interest not

be

---------·--·--···--- -------------*For outline of this plan see Appendix: No. 221 Heport for 18821 p. 509.

REPORT FOR 1893-P.ART JI.

373

only of the geologist but of man generally. In connection with this and other questions of' interest, it is proposed to establish in the course of time a, number of base stations for both the gravimetric and hypso· metric operations of the Coast and Geodetic Survey for future refer· ence, which will be determined with the utmost precision attainable. A number of such base stations judiciously distributed over the country and permanently marked and referred to the normal level of the oceans would, in the judgment of the committee, form a valuable heritage to hand down to posterity. In the selection of' pendulum stations the location of lines of precise levels should be kept in view, so that the effect of gravity irregularities on hypsometric measurements may be studied and corrected for. Second. Figure of the earth. As in the present state of our knowledge the reduction to the sea level of elevated continental pendulum stations tends to introduce into tlle results an element of uncertainty, it is proposed to restrict the location of stations intended for the determination of the earth's compression to the sea border of the continents and islands of the United States and Alaska, so as to obviate the necessity of applyiug· a reduction. Results thus far appear to indicate that fairly normal conditions exist along· seashores. The large range· of latitude embraced in the United States would be favorable to such au investigation. As the western and northern shores of Alaska are annually visited by commercial and Governnwnt vessels, it ii'.! suggested that their aid would be valuable in establishing a few stations there. Work of this nature might also be carried on in connection with astronomical stations that may be needed in the survey of the Aleutian , Islands and the western coast of Alaska. Although a precise knowledg·e of the absolute force of gravity is not indispensable to the applicatiou of the results· of relative pendulum observatious to the various purposes mentioned, yet it is so important a physical constant and of such great scientific interest as to justify the undertaking of such determinations at a few base stations, which may thereafter be used as reference points for relative observations. When more extended pendulum research has been carried out in the United States, it would probably be desirable to strengthen the connection between the base stations in this country and those in Europe, using the sam~ apparatus that has been employed here. It is not yet deemed practicable to state what degree of precision may be or should be reached in either relative or absolute work. Observations at a station should be continued only long enough to reasonabl'y eliminate the known errors of observation. In the present'state of our knowledge multiplication of stations is to be preferred to great accuracy, One of the principal obstacles to ra.pid and correct work will be th.e rating and irregularity of the chronometer, and it is suggested that this is a subject tlUtt should receive careful consideration.

374

U. S. COAST .A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

As of especial interest in connection with this report, the following conclusions, which were adopted by a conference held at the Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1882, are appended:·
1. The main object of penc1ulum research is its determination of the figure of the earth. From a snfllcicnt number of observations suitably distributed over the surface of the earth the actual figure may bo determined. 2. A <;omplete geodetic survey sho11ld include determinations of the intensity of gravity. These determinations should be made at aR many critical points of local deflection and phytiical structure within the area of the survey as possible; and these should be combined with others distributed over the whole globe. 3. A minute gravimetric survey of' Kome limited region is at present of such interest as to justify its execution. 4. Extended linear gravimetric exploration is desirable, to be ultimately followed by similar work distributed over large areas. 5. Each series of such determinations Khonld be made with the same apparatus, so that the differential results should not be affected by constupt errors peculiar to tho apparatus. 6. While it is inadvisable at present to strictly fix a numerical limit of tho permissible probable error of' pendulum work, yet a11ch determinations ought commonly to be accurate to the ·ifil1mnr part. 7. Since different pondulumt1 may be used in different regions, all should be compared at some central station. 8. Determinations of absolute gravity will probably prove useful in comparing the yard and the metro, and they should at nuy rate be made in order to test the coustancy of the length of a metallic bar. 9. In the present state of our experiences unchanged pendulums nro decidedly to be preferred for· ordinary explorations.
WILLIAM EIMBECK,

S. B.

TINSLEY,

Acting Chairman. Secretary.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE L ON EQUIPMENT.

For convenience the subject of "equipment" has been considered under the following heads:
I. Operations conducted by laud. 1. In a thick!~· Hettled count.ry; 2. In a sparsl)ly settled conn try; 3. In an uudeveloped country; 4. In an arid conn try. II. Operations conducted by w11ter. o. Ou inland waters in a settled country; G. On iplancl waters in an unsettled country; 7. On ·)urge or partly landlocked waters.
I. OPERATIONS CONDUCTED BY LAND.

----------------

1. In a thickly settled country the necessary outfit, beyond the instru'. ments and observatories, is confined to a few tools, etc., required for signal building, mounting of instruments, and the erection of' observa-~·------------------

-----·-··----

·See Appendix No. 22, Report U. S. C. aud G. S. for 1882, p. 516.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

375

tories. Transportation in the field can be hired advantageously, and board obtained near the scene of operations. 2. For a sparsely settled country it is not possible to make very deft· nite suggestions, owing to the great diversity of circumstances. For most of the mountainous regions east of the Mississippi River a camping outfit will generally be needed in order to be sufficiently near the stations. The camp outfit should be only sufficient for the actual needs of the party, but should not be so restricted as· to endanger health. The equipage should be so selected. that it can be stowed very compactly for ready transportation from station to station. Teams can usually be hired at reasonable rates for the purpose of' moving camps. In most of the States east of the Ro9ky Mountains it is possible to do away with camp outfits entirely, and to live in towns or villages, or at farmhouses near the stations. Such places, even in the Appalachian mountain region, or in the sparsely settled sections west of the Mississippi, can generally be found within 5 miles of the stations, which distance, unless observations are made at night, causes no serious inconvenience. Uncler such conditions the party outfit can be reduced to a minimum. On the triangulation of the thirty-ninth parallel, in western Kansas and eastern Colorado, the work was done under the foregoing conditions. .A. double party was employed. One party occupied the northern stations of the scheme, while the other party occupied the southern ones, each party consisting of three persons. For means of transportation each party had a two-liorse spring wagon, which carried instruments and outfit from station to i-itation. .A.t some places, where sleeping quarters could not be furnished, owing to the smallness of the sod houses or to the large families inhabiting them, it was found to be advisable to take along a tent or two for the sleeping accommodations of the party. At such times an additional wagon was required to transport the extra outfit. 3. For 1mdeveloped and 1tnsettle<l country, like the mountainous regions of the West, where roads are few and for between, and when they do exist are of the roughest character, and a great portion of' the country can only be reached by trails, many of which have to be opened as the work progresses, it is of the utmost importance to have the outfit and equipment as light as possible. For reconnaissance the party should be small, consiRting of a chief, an rod, two hands, and a man who is accustomed to outdoor cooking. .A.11 hands should be able to ride, drive, pack, and care for animals. There should be a saddle animal for each member of the party, and one pack mule for every two men, to transport the camp outfit, supplies, instruments, etc. Where roads are available, a light wagon will be of great assistance. The camp outfit should consist of two light single-pole pyramid tents, the pole8 jointed for convenience in packing. In a timbered

376

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

country it will be mmecessary to transport poles, as they can readily be cut when required. Each meml.Jer of the party should have two pair of blankets a.nd a canvas cover. Clothes should be rolled with the blanket or carried iu a canvas bag. For a regular triangulation party the outfit can be increased according to the size of the party and the requirements of t11e work. Folding camp cots, chairs, tables, and other convemeuces can be added according to the judgment of the oflicer in charge of the party; lmt it should always be remembered that transportation is one of the principal items of expense, and therefore the outfit should be kept as light as possible. The heliotroper's equipmept should consist of a small pyramid or A 'tent, an ax, hatchet, and the necessary cooking utensils for one or two men, as required. In an arid and undeveloped country a party must carry its own equipage and supplies, and, on account of the ditliculty and expense of transportation, should be restricted to only such things as are necessary for the prosecution of the work, subsistence and health of the memberA of the party, and forage for the animals. G:reat care Hhould be used in selecting the articles for such an outfit, so as to get them as light as possible and of a form convenient for packing into a small space. It woul<l be useless to attempt to give any specific direction for equipment for work in sections like the region under consideration, as it will necessarily be varied in different localities and must depend upon the character of the work, etc. The following general considerations, which are the fruit of the experience of the parties employed in the main triangulation across California, Nevada, Utah, and Colorado, however, will be fouud advantageous in nearly every section. In order to avoid the necessity of carrying along too many tent poles, a tent requiring only a jointed singfo pole should be used. Whenever practicable, all camp furniture should be made to fold and of light material. 1\fess outfit and cooking· utensils Hhould be selected without handles, and they shoul<l be of sueh a form as to be convenient for packing into nests. All articles that are likely to break in transportation should be put into boxes of proper size to be conveniently carried on the backs of animals. · In case heating stoves are necessary, they should be made of strong sheet iron and of varying sizes, so as to allow several of them to nest in one package. Stovepipes should be made to telescope. All bedding should be carried in rolls of a convenient size for packing upon mules, and a canvas covering should be furuisbed for each roll. For temporary camp purposes a cooking bar or lllate may be carried.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

377

For the purpose of carrying water upou the backs of mules the ordinary 10-ga.lloil casks or cauvas water pouches will be found usefUI. They can easily be placed upon a common pack saddle. If the camp equipage and outfit of instruments is large, as in case of a party engaged in primary triangulation, it will be found advisable to transport everything, as far as possible, by means of teams and . wagons, which can usually be hired temporarily. The party should be supplied with one light wagon and a number of mules for driving, riding, and packing. It will often be found necessary to carry along enough water to last for several days. In case wagons are used for transportation, the most convenient method for carrying· it will be in 45-gallon ba1Tels. One should be lashed. between eoach set of wheels, on the outside of the wagon box, where the water will always be available without unloading the wagou. In starting upon a long journey, which may last for a number of days, the party should he prepared to camp whenever night may overtake it, and such articles as are needed for bivouac along the road sl10uld be selected and placed in one wngon, so as to avoid the necessity of unloading all the wagons at every camping place. Among such articles might be mentioned a supply of provisions, cooking utensils, bedding, supplies for animals, cooking bar or grate, wood, etc. In a reconnaissance or running survey largo wagons may be used as bases of supplies, from which saudle and pack animals may be employed to branch off in order to reach points diflicult of access. In a country where there are no roads and it is impossible to travel with wagons and teams, a pack train, consisting of mules, equipped with t~ oruinary pack saddles, becomes necessary. Sometimes it even becomes necessary to carry the outfit upon the backs of men, and for that purpose pack straps should be furnished.
II. OPERA'.l'IONR CONDUCTED DY WATER.

5. In a settled country, where operations can be carried on by water, it will be found most convenient and economical to establisll the party at some boarding· place as near as possible to the field of work, and use boats ior local transportation. It will cause a great saving of time nnd expense to furnish a steam launch for a party working in such a locality. If boarding places can not be obtained without necessitating local transportation for a distance of 5 miles or more, the party sl10uld be furnisl1ed with floating quarters of a character suitable to the locality. G. Land transportation in a region that is unsettled and adjoining 11artly landlocked waters is, in a great measure, impracticable. l~or carrying 011 work in such localities two methods of procedure are possible-one by using small vessels, and the other by living in camps.

378

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

A very important and troublesome feature-one that can not be well avoided in work in this kind of country-is the fact that the source of supplies is usually at a long distance from the working ground. This necessitates carrying a much greater stock of provisions, etc., than would be advantageous if near a well-settled country, so that 1mfficient transportation and storage capacity becomes necessary in order that the regular progress of.the work be uot interrupted and delayed by occasional journeys for procuring supplies. If the field to be covered is an extensive one, it is undoubtedly more economical and expeditious to work from a vessel, equipped in the customary manner, but of suificient size only to afford quarters for living and, storage of supplies and material for the working party. Thus vessels can always be kept on or contiguous to the working ground, so that but little time will be lost in moving camps. On account of the liability of the provisions being spoiled if moved in rainy weather, camps necessarily have to be moved during weather suitable for field work, which consumes time that could otherwise be devoted to continuous operations. After it is decided that it is best to place the party on a particular piece of work afloat, the adoption of the class and size of vessel ought to depend upon the nature of the waters-that is, whether deep or shallow and whether wholly or partially protected-and upon the size of the party. In some instances, where the waters are shoal and perfectly protected, especially on the New Jel'sey and Florida coasts and on the Columbia River, scows or flatboats of light draft with quarters built on them have been found to answer the purpose of party accommodation admirably. Moving from place to place can be effected by poling when the water is shoal enoug·h, by a square sail when the wind is fair and strong, or, better still, by either a steam or naphtha launch, according to the circumstances. In deep and exposed waters sailing or steam vessels of seaworthy qualities become ·necessary. In localities liable to much calm weather or strong tidal cturents steam vessels would be advisable. If the area to be surveyed is not of large extent, and a suitable vessel is not on hand or readily available, the work will necessarily have to be conducted from a camp, the outfit of which for economy and. facility in moving should be so selected as to be stowed very compactly, and to be as light as the conditions of climate and exposure to vicissitudes of weather will permit without endangering the health of the various members of the party. In either case, whether working from a camp or vessel, the field transportation will be by water, and the "working boats" should be selected with regard to safety, utility, cost, and maintenance, all of which depend upon the nature and character of the waters. Scarcely anything can be added or suggested in the way of improving th.e pulling boats generally used on our vessels. For very shoal waters specially constructed, small, fiat-bottomed boats are

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.

379

necessary, the design and size of which ~ust depend upon the conditions in each particular case, and their selection must be guided largely by the experience gained in similar cases. Experience has shown that there is great economy in the use of suitable launches, varying in size and character according to circumstanc~s, on account of the rapidity with which they allow the field party to move about, and the facility with which material and equipage can be carried or towed by them; and their general use is recommended. In this manner the number of the crew may generally be decreased, and much valuable time be saved. For explorations up and along rapid streams, and work similar to the Alaskan Boundary Survey, light canoes, like the Peterbo'ro, but with good beam for the sake of safety, are desirable, on account of their extreme lightness, for portage from one channel or stream to anotlrnr. Pulling boats of very light draft, but of strong and elastic qualities, constructed oi1 the general plan of what are termed "St. Lawrence skiffs," where a greater carrying capacity than that of the canoes mentioned above is required, are often desirable on account of their great portability. For rough field usage and the moving of camps along rapid streams a double-shovel nosed skiff, being in model a cross between a punt and a batteau, is very good on account of 'its light draft and stable qualities. In many instances Indian canoes are ext'lellent for working purposes . . In all portions of the country where there arc protected or partially protected waters the trian~ulation, which is the framework or foundation for chart construction, is closely followed by the topography aud hydrography. Experience has shown that where these waters are not more than 6 or 8 miles in width there iR great economy in conducting all three classes of work by one p<trt.y of proper size arnl equipment, operating from either a vessel or camp. 7. On large or partly protected waters, like the Straits of Fuca, and especially the prospective work in Alaska, Rtanch seagoing vessels are required. l~or the Straits of Fuca and the triangnlation of southeastern Alaska types of existing steamers, of the class of 100 tons or a, little less, would be suitable. For their safety, on account of the strong tidal currents, they should have a speed of not less than 10 knots per hour. The present outfit of boats, etc., of this class of vessels will, speaking in general terms, meet the requirements of this kind of work. Por the work in Alaska beyond Sitka a steam vessel similar in size, speed, and equipment to the one just mentione<l seems desirable. For economy in fuel, and, as a precaution of safety, to guard as much as may be agairn;t disaster due to a-0cident to the machinery, it seems adviRable that she be full schooner rigged and also a good sailer, so that during· heavy weather when in expo:;ed places Rhe could be laid

380

U. S. CO.A.ST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

to nuder sail, thus saving a good deal of fuel, which would have to be
brought from a long distance. In conclusion, your committee would state that, owing tO the great variety of orographic, economic, and climatic conditions in a country as large as this, it is impracticable to recommend specific details for the numerous varyiug conditions under which the different classes of work are executed. J. F. PRATT, Chairman. A.' L. BALDWIN, Secretary.

SUPPLEMENT.

LETTERS FROM

ASSISTA~TS

AND OTHERS ADDRESSED TO THE CHAIRMAN 01'' THE CONFERENCE.

LETTER FROM AUG .. F. RODGERS, ASSISTANT.

UNITED ST.A.TES Co.A.ST .A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY,

Suboffice, San Francisco, Gal., January 29, 1894, Appreciating the courtesy of the chairman and gentlemen of the Geodetic Conference assembled in Washington in inviting me by the circular of January to give my views in writing on the subjects suggested to the Conference by the Superintendent for discussion, I beg to reply as follows:
BASE-LINE ME.A.SURE}1ENT.

It seems to me that the most effective way to determine with certainty the relative values of bases mea!mred by different methods, those of acknowledged high refinement of method with a number of meas· ures determined with less refinement, is to compare the results of the various metliods on some occasion when it may be required to measure a long base with the best modern appliances of refinement. I am. inclined to believe in the practicability of close and even refined wire measurements, with appliances to insure perfect alignment, prevent sagging, and correct for chaug~s of temperature. Every bar contact, while it is an element of retardation in timt~, is also an element of error. These two are reduced to their lowest factors by the great lengths possible in wire measurement. It would certainly be interesting and valuable information to determine by careful field comparisons the relative values of refinement to be expected between modern bar measures and a repetition of wire measurements; the latter a method comparatively so inexpensive that if the degree of refinement could be assured, frequent bases would be practicable, while they are not now. 381

382

U. S. COAST AND GEODE'J'.IC SURVEY.

To define with greater exactness the various classes of trigonometrical work I suggestTriangulation roconnaissunce. Geodetic meridian triangulation. Geodetic la ti tu de triangulation. 8tato uml intoroceun primary. State and iutoroceau soco1Hlary. State and interocoan tertiary. CoaHt primary triangulutiou. Coast secondary triangulation. Coast-lino triangulation.

Triangulation reconnaissance explains itself. Geodetic meridfrln and latitiidc refer to schemes that, while inciden- . tally accomplishing general connections, are specially devised to measure arcs of meridian aud latitude. State and intet'ocean, to define relatively the geography of the several States, their boundaries, an<l finally to make connection between the Atlantic and Pacific coasts. Primary, secondary, and tertiary, in the case of State and. inter-ocean triangulation, woul<l indicate the charaeter of the work; secondary, more or less local in character, as applied to auy State, aud the tertiary entirely so, as being the basis for topographic detail. Coast primary refers to triangulation which, though incidentally connecting with interior work, is specially designed. to control the coast geographic detail through the coast secondary and coast-line schemes.
ll\'STH.UMENTS, E'.1.'C.

No theodolite reading to less than 5" should be used in the coast-line work, and the degree of minuteness of measure of couri;e should increase with the higher grades of work, though I am inclined to think the refinement of graduation, when read with micrometer microscope, is in advance of the character of signals observed over long lines. The heliotrope, when a good objeet, is very excellent; but in disturbed conditions of the atmosphere is liable to distortion an<l enlargement, and the latter much beyond the limits of dimension requisite. for precise pointing. It is too well known to require discussion that tlle best observing · weather, within distances in which pole signals can be defined, occurs when thP. sun is obscured by clouds, and on si.wh days, if the obscuration ·covers large areas, they must be lost days to the observer dependent on heliotropes. The inference to be drawn from the effects of cloud obscuration of the sun is suggestive of the superior conditions of atmosphere at night for observation of horizontal angles or directions, and, creteris paribus, diminished loss of ·time as compared with daylight heliotrope observations. Over the longer lines of the presen,t interocean triangulation I suppose

REPORT FOR 1893-.PA.RT II.

383

it would be necessary to devise a more powerful artificial light than any that haa been heretofore used in Coast Survey work. The reconnaissa.nce for the main and primary triangulation of the Pacific Coast appears to have been alwayt> a weak element, and this bas resulted in the necessity of reoccupation of stations a11d unnecessary expense to the work, It seems remarkable that the geography of the coast and of its mountain ranges is sufficiently well known to permit authentic useful State nrn.ps to be made, always based partly on determinations by the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and yet the question of intcrvisibility of prominent summits available for carryi11g tile network of precise triangulation of our Survey over the regions embrnced by the maps referred to is still in many cases doubtful. I think more attention should be given to reconnaissance and the study of schemes for development of the triangulation before the latter is umlertakeu.
lIYPSOME'.l'RY.

The close determination of elevations by the Coast Survey iu triangulation and by precise leveling would appear to atford special facilities for testing the value of hypsometric methods, and especially results attainable from mercurial a11d aueroid barometers.
l\IAGNETIC WORK.

The magnetic work of the Coast Survey has been, and the results attained ever will be, of value to the mariner, the land-owner, 111.id the surveyor, and should be fostered by appropriations to secure continuity of observation, which will still be of important practical interest and value long after the present generation shall have passed away.
P.A.R'l'Y ORGANIZ.A.'.l'ION.

The organization of parties in the Coast Survey would appear to be as simple as it is possible to make them.
OAMl' Ot;'l'FI'l'S, E'l'C.

Wheu it is remembered that our camp outfits involve protection from severe weather, and often at high altitudes, at points more or less remote from ordir'.ary lines of travel, the question of "impedimenta" is one to be seriom;ly considered, but from so many standpoints and nuder such varying conditions that it would be impracticable to limit outfits as to cost and ,ize by any rigid rule.
REOOHDS, l'HEl' ARA'.1'10N8, E'.l'C.

To secure uniformity in thll best method decided upon in any ca1:>e a desidtiratum.

is~·

384

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
l<'IELD COMPUT.A.'.1.'ION, ETC.

This is a question to be governed by the character of work in each particular case and whether tho results are for field use or for transmission only to the ollice for revision .
.A.CCOUN'l'S-REL.A.'l'lONS OF l·'IELJ> OFFICERS '1'0
'.1'1-m

DISBURS.ING

AGEN'.l.'.

The present system of accounts seems to me to be generally acceptable, and my own official relations with tho disbursing agent leave me nothing fo imggest.

LETTER FROM A. T. MOSMAN, ASSISTANT.

SAN DIEGO, CAL., .February 1, 1894. In presenting to the Conference my views herewith I must confine myself almost entirely to the results of my own experience in the Survey, as I have uo books or reports at hand bearing upon the geodetic work of foreign countries and very few of the reports of kindred work in the United States.
BASE-LINE MEASURE:\IENT.

For base lines of the first class, where the greatest attainable accuracy is sought, the apparatus. used may be divided into two clasl?es-"noncompensating," when the bars are made of one metal, and "compensating," when, by a combination of two metals of unequal coefficients of expansion, it is sought to render the length of the combined bar invariable at all temperatures within tho limits usually encountered in actual work. With all kinds of apparatus used to measure bases the accuracy of the final result for length depends more on the accurate determination of the temperature of the measure used than. qn manipulation of the apparatus. If means could be found to obtain the true temperature of the bars used, either a compensating or a noncompensating apparatus might be made to give accurate results. In practice it has been found, I think, that it is impossible to keep the two metals composing a compensating apparatus at the same temperature; therefore the invariable length of the compound bar sought is never attained. And to obtain an accurate result it is necessary to correct for the d~Uercnce of temperatures of the two metals composing the bar, which can ol'ly be clone after we know the actual temperature of each, and it is easier, I think, to obtain the true temperature of one bar of steel or iron tl an of two. The complication necessary in the mechanical arrangement c, f the com· pensating apparatus is also an argument against its use. '.lhe experi· ence of the Lake Survey with the Bache-Wurdemann com;iensating

REPORT FOR 1893-PART JI.

385

apparatus, composed of bars of iron aud brass, was unsatisfactory, and "its liability to change length owing to its havi11g thirteen joints or points of contact., at any one of which change in contact by wear of· or by change of adjustment may change the length of the tube," is me·1tioued (on page 88, Professional Papers :No. 24, Corps of:. Engineers, U. S. A.) as au argument agai11st its use; and the fact is stated "that in a11y one of the tnbes of the Lake Survey apparatus the length of the tube can be changed 0·003 inch by simply tightening or looseni11g the screw which forms the axis of rotation of the compensating lever, the tightening twisting· the original plane of rotation." Accuracy of result depending in any form of apparatus, therefore, almost e11tirely upon obtaini11g· the true temperature of the bar, either by a mercurial or by some form of metallic thermometer, it is important to know bow we can best attain this end, whether by covering the tubes by several thicknesses of noucouducting material, thus making clianges of temperature slow and gra1lual, or by exposing bot.h bar and thermometers to the air. In either cas~ it is supposc<l that the whole appara~us is sheltered from the direct rays of. the sun. By experiment it is known that there h; a certain "lag'' of thermometers going on <luring changes of temperature, an<l it seems to me tlierefore preferable to cover the tubes a11d tliermometers as carefully as possible to prevent sudden clianges of temperature and to correct the" lag·" b,)' measuring, if possible, each <lay a,s many tubes ><lnri11g a rising temperature as duri11g a falling, thus getting a, mean result as nearly as possible independent of "lag" of thermometers. For the same reason l should use the same method iu working with the secondary base apparatus for subsidiary bases. How we can best apply our thermometer to the bar in order that itt> reading· sliall sliow the temperature of the bar I do not know as none of the mea11s used heretofore, to my knowledge, have been very successful. By measuring in the night, wheu eitlier bars or long tapes are used, we secure usually a more equable temperature and presumably obtain more nearly the actual temperature of the measure used. '.l'his is perfectly practicable when the tape is used, the stakes having hccu previously set over the whole base; but there are many difficulties in the way, of' using a primary base apparatus in tile niglit. The average probable error· of result with primary base apparatus on the Lake Survey was about 1/1 070 000; for the Const and Geodetic Survey I have 110 data at hand. The experiments of Prof. R S. 'Vood'Vnrd 011 the Holton and St. Albans bases show that with long steel tapes, used under the ~nost favorable conditions at night, the probable error of result can be reduced to 1/1 280 000. lf even an accuracy of 1/1 000 000 can be usually obtained with tape measurement, with the 'greatest care, it will doubtless prove the most economica,l method when th(\ .conditious are such as to allow the stakes to be driven
8. Ex. HI, pt. :.!-:.!5

386

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

along tlw whole line and the state of the ground such as to allow night measurements. When extreme accuracy is uot required i11 each individual base, as in a scheme of triangulation covering a large section of conutry, especially when the surface is nearly level aud covered with timber; necessitating the building of high signals, frequent bases measured with a degree of accuracy equal or but little superior to that obtained from the triangulation, say 1/150 000, would seem to be a more economical and equally accurate method of checking the work. This would be particularly applicable to a section of the country like Indiana or Illinois, nearly level and heavily wooded, where lines of Ii) to 20 miles can be got only by building up and cuttiug, and where bases of from 2 to 5 miles can be laid out without much expense. I11 a mo1111tainous country, like that of Virginia and. West Virginia between the Blue Ridge and the Ohio River, it would often be impossible to find a spot suitable for a base line of even 2 miles in length, and. when found it would be almost impossible to connect it with the scheme of triangulation. 'rn such a country bases would necessarily be few aud far apart, and for that reason a greater degree of accuracy would be required in each.
'.l'RIANGUL.A.'l'ION.

Triangulation is mmally divided into three classes, viz, primary, sec011dary, and tertiary. It is difficult to define exactly the last two, as under dilforing circumsta11ces of country aud length of lines the two latter merge into cad1 other and are rarely kept entirely separate. Primary work may he defined as that scheme which can cover the area to be :>nrveyed with well-conditioned figures having the smallest number of stations possible. Tertiary work has for its object the determination of a suitable number of points along or near the shore line of the coast~ bay, or river to be surveyed for the use of the topographical and hydrographic parties following the triangulation. The scale to he used fixes the accuracy needed in the determination of these points. In many cases the p0ints can be fixed by intersections from secondary or even from primary stations, as in the case of a wide river oi; arm of the sea, in which case there would uot be a distinct chain of tertiary fig·nres. There should always be, of course, two or more independent determinations of each of these points for a check, and in many cases, where lines are not more than 10 miles in lengt.h, a single reading of the angle direct and reverse is sufficient to fix the point with the required degree of accuracy. Secondary trfongles are those intermediate between the primary and tertiary, sometimes forming an independent chain and being connected as often as possible with the primary, arnl sometime8 being merely a step in the determination of tertiary. points from the large primary sides.

REPORT FOH. 1893-PAHT Ir.

387

Pr11na1-y work rcq nires the greatest :1ttai11aulc 1legree of accuracy, all(l iustrulllents of the highest class, with aceurntely divided ei1·eles and pQwerfnl telescopes, should he used. Direction i11strn111e11ts having circles of from 12 to 20 incltm; iu diameter and readi11g· by three microscopes to single seconds, with telescopes of ltigh power, arc the best instruments to use for primary work. For secomlary work either direction or repeating theodolites of from 8 to 12 inch limbs may be used, depending upon the country. 'Vhen it is necessary to occupy the tops of buildings and spires of' churches, as in a triangulation covering a city or town, or 'vhen ligltt-houses must be occupied eccentrically on the outside platfor:m or rail, a repeating instrument must be used, as the support of the instrument is not firm enough to use a position instr'ument and it is frequently impossible to read the microscopes. When a repeating theodolite is used, a set of measures should be made of the angle with telescope direct and reversed, and then a set of measures of the explement follow dfrectly, turning the telescope in the same direction in each of t.he measures. '.l'he sum of the angle and its explement should equal 3u0°, and half the excess or deficiency applied to the direct measure gives the mean result for two i;ets. For secondary work I should generally prefer to use a repeating theodolite varying in size from G to 10 inches in diameter of circle, according to the lengths of tlte lines to be observed. On the triaugulation of tl.te Delaware giver two 6-inch Gambey theodolites· were used, and lines of over 20 miles in length were observed from one light-house to another. Over 70 miles of river were triangulated in about two mouths, starting from a base joining two old ligltt-housM about fj miles apart and closing satisfactorily 011 the two light-houses at the mouth of' the river, Cape l\fay and Cape Henlopen, about Hi miles apart, and the work was also extended up the river from Bombay Hook nearly to Newcastle and joiuecl to the upper river triangulation. As the principal object of the work was to furnish points for the topograpbic and hydrographic survey of both banks of the river below Newcastle, and also to determine the position of the new lighthouses built on the shoals of the lower river, great accuracy was not sought, but the rapid and economical determination of the points was the first consideration. As the only two old stations 'extant were the two old light-houses, the line connecting them was a little uncertain. in length, as it was possible that the lanterns were not. identical with those observed on by Assistant Blunt several years previously; so it was desirable to check its length at the month of the river by closing on the two light-houses there, whose distance apart was k11own. Several reasons not 11ecessary to enumerate prevented st:~rting the triangulation from the mouth of the river. The plan followed was to run a scheme of triilrllgulation consisting of quadrilaterals from one base to the other as quickly as possible, and to

388

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

determine points for the topogrnphy and hydrography on each shore as often as were ueeded. Most of the stutions were light· houses, as they were higher than auy available points on shore and needed no signals . .All stations of the main chain were occupied, most of them eccentrically, some light-houses in the middle of the river needing three eccentric stations, and the chimney of the lantern at each was observed on. The horizon was closed by each two successive sets, and, as I now remember, but four double sets of six repetitions each were taken at each principal station = 48 repetitions or measures. Very few tertiary stations were · occupied, most of them being simply fixed by intersections from three to five of the main stations, the oLject beiug to determine each tertiary station within a metre and to have always not less than two and usually three or four separate determinations. .The work was computed and points given t<) the topographic and hyclrographic parties at once, two of each Leing at work on the river at the time. Only one set of six repetitions was taken on the tertiary points, ancl on short lines two readings, one direct aud one reverse, sufficed. The number of oLscrvations taken on this work was less than half usually obtained, and the time correspondingly shortened; still I believe the object of the survey was fully and satisfactorily accomplished. I think that more observations arc taken on nil kinds of triangulation than are needed. This is more especially the case on secondary and tertiary work, but applies in a less degree to primary work. In the latter, when a 20-inch theodolite is used, it is usual to observe in 11 positions and take 3 series on a position. With a 12-inch theodolite 17 positions and 2 series on a position are usually taken. Each series consiRts of a pointing on each object, telescope direct, the reading of the 3 microscopes, and another round of .pointingR, telescope reversed, and the reading of the 3 microscopes. The mean of these 2 pointings' on the 6 readings constitutes a series. With a 20-inch we have, therefore, 33 series in 11 positions, and with the 12-inch 34 series in 17 positions. As it is desirable to read on as many parts of the limb as practicable, so that the final direction sba,Jl be free from the errors of graduation, and as the only object of observing more than one series in any position is to check one series by another, I am convinced that but one series should be observml in each position ancl that as many.positions. should be observed as may be needed to gain the required degree of accuracy. Two series on the same position rarely differ more than a second, while the mea.n of the series on the difforent positions usually varies from 5" 011 the 20-inch theodolite to 13" on some of the 12-inch theodolites. ·Some experiments made with a 12-inch theodolite in con· necting the Holton Base with the triangulation convinced me that the mean of 17 positions, one series on a position, differed but very little from 17 positions with 2 series in each position, although the probable error was much larger owing to the smaller, number of results. Of

REPORT FOR 1893-.-PART II.

389

course tllere will IJe a difference of opinion as to the number of observations 11cedecl on each angle, but my ownopinion is tha.t 23 positions of 1 series each will give-as accura.te a result as 11 positions of 3 series each or 17 position8 of 2 series each, and about 33 per cent of the time spent in observing would be saved. For secondary work of the usual character, 4 to 6 double sets or' 6 repetitions each, or from 48 to 72 measures, will be ample for a repeating theodolite. For a direction instrument on the same class of work an 8-inch circle is large enough, and 7 positions of 1 series each sufficient.
SIGNALS.

For signals we have the choice of poles and lleliotropes by day and lights by night. All have given good results under differing conditions. For very long lines poles can not be seen, aud heliotropes must be used for day observations. In many parts of the country, however, where it is necessary to use heliotropes during hazy weather, it is desirable to have poles also, as they can often be seen in cloudy wnather when no heliotrope can be · used. Often a line whose direction is nearly uortll and south can be observed in one direction on a pole, fl.Specially if a, lozenge of white cloth is attached to it, while in the opposite direction the observer must i·cly upon the heliotrope entirely. My own prnctice has been of late years to erect a pole at each station. In case of high tripods and scaffolds beiug used, a central pole .Jo by 4 inches and 16 foet long was erected.in the center of the tripod. A lozenge of muslin 3 feet by 3 feet was nailed to the pole by a c1·osspiece facing toward the station being occupied. When the pole could not be seen from all the other stations, heliotrope stands were erected on the rail of the scaffold accurately in line from the center to the stations to which the heliotropes were to show. When the sun is nearly behind the observer looking toward the signal the lozenge shows white and like a faint heliotrope light, when the sun is shining. In cloudy weather neither the lozenge nor the heliotrope can be seen, but the pole itself then shows and can be pointed on directly. On a line running· nearly north and south not over 25 miles long, situated in the Ohio River Valley, I never employed ·a heliotroper at the northern station, but used a lozenge on the pole. On occupying· the northern station on the same line I posted a h~liotrope at the southern. In the valley of the Ohio I have seen a lozenge a distance of 30 miles when the outlines of all hills over 10 miles distant were obscured by thick haze, and have obtained good observations on it for two or three hours. In the mountains I have frequently observed on poles 12 inches in diameter and 50 feet high (crotch of tripod 18 feet above ground) a dh1tance of 50 to 60 miles during cloudy weather. I have never had much experience with lumps on 11ight work, other than azimuth observations, when they have invariably g"iveu me a great deal

390

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

of trouble. Wliere the country is flat a11d wooded, mid high signall'! must be used, we can often reduce the height. of .the signal to be erected by observing at night on account of the jncreased vertical refraction. ~he atmosphere is probably more steady also at night, and a greater number of hours' work at a time can be obtained, and screei1s to cover the scaffold are 110t needed: hut the use of lamps entails many disadvantages and some dangers. Several high signals l1avc been burned by fires started from exploded lamps wlJich were lighted at sunset by au attendant a11d left unwatched to lmru themselves out. Safety seems to require that the attenda11t should remain at the station and watch the lamp during the time of ohservatio11, and afterwards extinguish it. In a sparsely settled country it is practicable to hire a man who will attend a heliotrope at stated hours, even if he has to walk several miles from his house to do Ho; but the same man would utterly refuso to remain nnd wati;h a lamp at night. When a primary triangulation party has two observers available and many directions to measure from a station, it would be economical to observe on heliotrope and poles by day and on lamps at night, and thus be possible to finish the station'in les8 time than if only one method were used. Several stations tlms occupied would give data to decide the relative accuracy of day and night work. By furnishing tlie heliotroper a te11t and bed, lte could easily work the heliotrope by day and watch the light at night for a sligl1tly increased compensation. 1t is well to state that day observations on a high signal require tlie use of screens on the scaffold to protect the tripod from the sun. My experience convinces me that screenH are never needed for protection from the wind. 1f the wind is too strnng to observe without screens, setting them will make matters worse, as a mnch great.Pr area is pre· sented to the wind a11d there is danger of the scaffold bein1~ blown against the tripod. Under Ruch circumstances observatio11s should be discontinued. Besides the necessary rneasureme11t of' angles at a station, the &, should be perm:rnently marked and a detailed description and sketch made showing the location of the station and the roads mid patl1R necessary to travel to reach it.
RECONNAISSANCE AND HIGNAL BUILDING.

The manner of making a rccon11aissa11ce for a i'lcheme of triangulation varies so much in different Hectio11s of the country that it is impossiule to submit rules that will apply to all. The reconnaissance of ':t mountainous country where the peaks are detached and well marked, and the stations can be placed on the ground, requires an entirely different outfit arnl manner of work from that necessary to be pursued i11 a 11carlY fiat, heavily wooded country, where the building-of high signals is neces· sary. In the latter country t,he signal bnildi11g should be kept well in advance of the observing party, and it will be more economical to have

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

391

a well-organized building party, under a competent foreman, at work building tlle signals, unuer the direction of the chief of party, at the same time that the observing party is occupying stations behind. 'Vhen signals of over 100 feet are required aud there are railroads that can be used for transportation, it is better to buy timber sawed to dimensions at n. mill or town and ship it to the place where it is requiued than to attempt the building of signals from trees cut on the spot. Wire-rope guys arc reqmrcd on the scaffold while the tripod is being· occupied, but if the Rignals arc well constructed 110ue are needed at other times. 'l'he A :-;hould be marked securely on the ground as soon as the signal is cornplctecl, preferably by using a "vertical collimator" placecl in the center of the square hole in the tripod through which the pole is erected. 'l'his should be done before the pole is run up into position. On occupying the station this "plumbing down" should be repeated before the theodolite is centered on tlle tripod to see if the head of foe tripod has moved relatively to the mark on the ground, owing to unequal settlement or auy other cause, and in case of movement between the time that observations have been made on the pole and the time of occupntion a correction for eccentricity can be applied unless tho tripOll head can bo shirted sufficiently to bring center of theodolite over the & on the ground. and the pole recentered on leavi11g the station. 'L'he final permanent marking of the station by mea11s of stone posts or drain tile pipe filled with concrete· at the center and establishment of reference marks can best be done while the station is being occupied.
ASTJWN0~1ICAL

WORK.

The determinations of latitude and azimuth at the primary stations of a. scheme of triangulation can best be made at the time the station is occupied for horizontal and vertical angles. 'l'hc longitude can best be done by a separate party, properly equipped for the purpose, observmg at the nearest telegraph station, which can afterwards be connected with the schem~ of triangulation.
LATITUDE.

Tho latitude can undoubtedly be best determined by the zenith telescope, and aportable instrument of 30 inches focal length, using about 100 observations, will give a result whose probable error need not exceed 0".05 if weJl.selccteil stars are used. These 100 observ.ations on welldetermined stars can be distributed over as many nights as we clioose. The usual plan is to select a list of about 20 pairs and observe ea.ch pair on five to six nights. This method' requires that tlie sky shall be clear at a certain time each night, or stars will be lost, and they mm;t be observed 011 another night. If a list of 50 or GO pairs are selected, running from sunset to nearly sunrise, the whole list may he observed on two exceptionally clear nights, or, in case of clouds at one part of

392

u;

S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the night and t;everal pairs are lost, tl1e remaintler of the list can be observed. By this method we may have 0111,r one observation (m many of the pairs and not more than two or three 011 any, but the 100 (or more) necessary obscrvatious may be obtainetl in two or three uights, while the resulting latitude has been proved to be more accurate. lu other words, the more 1utfrs observed for the same numller of results the more accurate is the result. This method 11ecessitates the ollservation on the last night of such pairs to finh;h up as shall make the snm of the north and south differences of zenith distances balance each other for the whole list, in order tlrnt the final result shall lie independeut of errors in the value of micrometer used. Of course the nse of so many pairs adds to the Jal>or of computation, as the mean places of more star:i must be computed (at present this is done in the office and the results sent to the field party) and more reductious from mean to apparent places computed. It l1as been fou11<l, l1owever, tlmt by computing the stars only for the dates actually observed, instead of computing the apparent places of <10 stars each on four or five dates five days apart, the labor is not increased. If a list of well-determiued stars were compiled and published for the use of the Survey, the field parties could compute their latitudes at once, and the places be still further corrected, if necessary, when the office computation was made. A list of stars was prepared by Prof. 'f. H. Safford for the use of the International Boundary Commission covering the limits for our work on the boundary line, from which the observer selected his pairs for each night's work mHl obser\'ed them at the most con veil ien thou rs of the night. In so·me cases observations were carried on all night and over 70 pairs observed, and the 11ecessary 100 observations ·were made up on the 1iext night. In many cases the final result for latitude of the station was obtained in from four to five days after tl:).e observations were l>egnn. This extreme haste was neees:;ary in order to give results for latitude and azimuth to the parties ruuning the parallel to start the tangent at one astronomical station and to check its direction at the other. At Stations No. 1, near Bl Paso, and No. 4, at t11e intersection of parallel 310 47~ with the meridian section, which was also a longitude station, such haste was not necessary. So the old plan of using only 20 pairs a11d observing them on five or six nights each was tried for comparison. The result Rhowe<l that 100 ohsen'ations on GO pairs gave a smaller probable error of result than 100 observations on 20 pairs. The value of micrometer should be observed at each station occupied, if possible, but this is not absolutely necessary .
.A.Zlll1UTH.

The azimuth of some 011e line of the triangulation at each asfronom· ical station is required. Observations 011 slow-moving circumpolar stars afford the best means of measuri.ng the aznnuth. Usually we

REPOH'l' FOR 1893-P.ART II.

393.

need an azimuth light fixed at a distauce·of from 3 to 30 miles to use for a night mark, and it is counected with the liues of the main triang·ulatiou by the day observations. Collimat.ors have been used instead of a distaut light, but, so far as l um informed, they were ii failure. '.l.'he most favorable tline to obs0rve on a star for azimuth is withiu au hour before or after elongation, when the star is rising or falling and having very little horizontal motiou; although, if the time is accurately knowu, observations may be made at any time. Wllen the azimuth light can be placed nearly iu the vertical plane through the star at elongatio11, the azimuth may be observed very qufokly and accurately 1,>y using the micrometer of a theodolite or meridian telescope to measure the horizontal angle between the light and the vertical plane through the star. (An example of. the method is given in Bulletin :No. ~l, United States Coast aml Geodetic Survey, December, 1890.) A set can easily be taken in twenty minutes, and three to five sets are suflicient for any one night. The number of 11ights' observations required depends upon the class of work., for. it is usual to find more range hetween the mean results of the different nights than between any two of the sets taken on a single night. For primary work six nights of four sets each night will usually give a result with ii probable error of result less than::!: 0".15, while for secondary work three nights of three sets w.ill give a probable error of from ± 0 11 .~0 to ± 0"·30, depending in both cases almost entirely upon the difference in the mean results for the different nights and not on the whole number of sets taken. A sufficient number of sets can be taken in less than two hours for a11y one night, and if these are observed within less tbaIL one hour of elongation the time becomes of little consequence, so that sextant observations will give a result near enough for the chronometer error. Wllen the light can not be placed in the proper positiou for using the micrometer, the angle between the star and mark is measured the same as any horizontal angle, except that the times af the pointings on the star are marked by chronometer; a11d it is preferable by this method also to observe on the star near elongation. When a light can be fixed near the 110rizon and in the meridian plane passing through tho station, the azimuth can be measured with an astronomical transit, fitted with an eyepiece micrometer, by observing the transits of close circumpolar stars both at upper and lower culmination for the azimuth error of the instrument and ol>taining the error of chronometer by transits of high and low stars. If the transit is mounted over the~' it mm;t l>e removed a11d a theodolite mounted in its place to tra.nsfer the observed azimuth of the mark to a line of the triangulation, which is often inconvenient. At Moous 1\fonutain ~'North Carolina, this difliculty was obviated by 1nounting the astronomical transit inside the observatory, accurately iu line between the theodolite, mounted over the station, and the azimuth light placed on a hill 10 miles distant. T}le transit was mounted enough below the axis of the theodolite to allow the azimuth light to be seen

394

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

over tlle axis of tlle transit, and the post holding tlle Jamp at uight became a signal for the theodolite during- the day observations and one of the regular directions observed, so that it was combined with every direction measured from the station. Tllis arrangement allowed an independent set of azimutll to be observed with ·the theodolite in the usual maimer for a check of the result by the transit. Besides these two independent results for the azimutll of the mark, we were enabled to use the telescope of the transit.for a collimator, and by setting the micrometer wire to the reading of' line of collimation when the transit was playing exactly in the meridian plane (as determined by tlie azimuth correction obtained for the transit at night) we could point on this wire with every set taken for 110rizontal directions made during the day. The result, like aJl other attempts to use a collimator instead of an azimuth light by me, was a failure because of the movement of the telescope in azimuth. This transit was a large 48-inch Troughton & Simms, with a heavy frou frame mounted on a brick pier . .A. specially constructed collimati11g telescope with low wycs ca.~t on a heavy iron plate, which plate was set in cement 011 tho top of a solid brick pier, with a brick arch covering the whole collimator, and the whole instrument covered with wooden house tho sides and roof of which were double, was also tried at Elliotts Kuob, Virginia. The opeuing in the front of the hom;c toward the theodolite was only a hole 1~ inches in diameter, and the wires of collimator were illuminated by reflecting .the light of a lamp out.~idc the house by means of a mirror through the collimator. This collimator was used as an azimuth mark for night observations, µ,ml was pointed on in each set of directiorn;; measured in the da.y. It was found that the collimator was twisted during the day, following the sun,-but returned to nearly the same pof:dtion during the night.
SBCONDARY A8'l'R011;011UCAL OBSEltVA'.l'IONS.

For an astronomical reconnaissance where extreme accuracy is not required, observations for time, latitude, all(l azimuth can he made with an altazimnth instrument, or vertical circle, aR it is caJlcd on tlie Suryey. A Gambey repeater of 10-inch circles, reading to ti\·e seconds by four veruiers, and fitted with a delicate level (value 1 div.=2"), was used by the writer during tho war to determine points for a military map of West Virginia, in 1863. The instrument was mounted on a post of wood set. about 2 feet in tho ground, and the operations of a night were as follows : Observations of two east stars, measuring two sets on rnwh star, near the 'prime vertical. Observation of two west starR, of two sets each, in the same manner,, each set consisting of six repetitiom;. 1'110 mean of these eigllt sets gave a result for time.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.

395

The chronometer was then taken to the telegraph office, and signals were exchanged by telegraph with the Nav.al Observatory, after which another determination of time was made in the same manner for rate of chronometer. Latitude was then observecl on north and south stars by circummeridian zenith distances. Twelve sets of six repetitions each, as evenly divided as possible between north and sGuth sets, were observed. The time necessary for observing a set of six repetitions was four to five minutes, either for time or latitude. 'fhis allowed one set to be observed on a quick-moving south star, while on a slow-moving· north. star it was possible to measure three sets-one before culmination, one on meridian (nearly), and oue after culmination. The same method was pursued i11 the survey of the '.l.'ennessee, Ohio, an<l Mississippi rivers in 1864-65, except that the longitude was then obtained by transportation of chronometers. 'rhe accuracy of results obtained was as follows: 'fime could be determined within a probable error of ± 0"·2. J;atitude by one night's observations gave an average probal>le error of result of± 0"·7.
RECORDS.

Where it is impracticable to make the original record in iuk, as often hap1)ens when an oliserver has to read the microscopes and also keep the record,. the origiual shonl1l be duplicated as soon as possible in iuk. The meam; having all been taken uy one person, i,;houltl be carefully checked by a second, and the abstract. then made out l>y one persou and checked by another. 'l'lie original, in pe11cil, shoulcl he carefully compared with the duplicate in iuk, aml then the original should l>e inked and the two again compared. After this has been done, we no longer need either the original or duplicate record in the field, as the abstract gives us all the datii we need for computing. \Vlrnn the station is finished, the ol'igiual should be sent to the office, the duplicate renrniuiug in the possession of the chief of party. On receiving notice from the office that the original has been received, the duplicate can then be sent.
JqELD COMPU'.rATIONS.

A rough computation of tlie "triangle sides," sl~owing how the triangles close, the difference in length of Rides by two determinations, etc., must l>e kept up to date to see how well the work is being done. For this purpose it is not uecessary to apply the correction for run nor to make any lem;t square adjustment either for station or sides and angle8. 'fhe po:,;ition co111pntation should also be kept up, so as to be able to know the station errors in latitude aud azimuth at each astro· nomical atat:.011.

396

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

At the end of the season these computations should be revised before being tumed in to the office; but as tile office computation is ma·lc entirely independent, and is the only official one used for results, the field computation is of use only to give approximate results more quickly and to check approximately the final office computation.
ACCOUNTS,

As the accounts of field ofli.cers must be made out promptly at the en<l of each month and in addition to their duties as surveyors, the amount of clerical work necessary to be done by the chief of party, usually with no clerical assistance, should be reduced to a minimum, and as much of this work: as is possible should be done in the disbursing office. Accounting omcers too often forget that the keeping of the accounts of a field party is only incidental to the scientific work done by the parties, and that the cnly time the chief has to devote to accounts is 'in the intervals between more important work; and for tbis reason the amount of writing aud duplicating should he made as small as possible. \Vhen originals of any accounts for a month are received by the disbursing agent, lie should acknowledge tltem at once, so that the field oittcer may know they are received and will be placed to his credit after examination. All decisions of the Comptroller iu regard to accounts, esp'ecially new requirements, should be sent to each chief of party a~ soon as known, and he should not, as is too of'tc11 the case, be left to discover changes in methods by the return of oue or more sets of accounts "disallowed" or "suspended.''

LETTER FROM HERBERT G. OGDEN, ASSISTANT.
UNI'l'ED STA'l'ES UOAS'l' AND GEODE'l'IC SURVEY OFFICE,

Washington, D. O., Februar!J o, 189'4. I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your favor transmitting an invitation from t11e Conference to submit my views 011 tl1e su~jects presented by the Superintendent for tlrn consideration of the Conference. It is evident that a number of these question can only be satisfactorily considered aftel' an examination of the results 11ow on file.
ll.A.SE-LINE MEASUREMENTS.

Recent investigations of line measures confirm our former experi.ences in the reliability of measures with the tape in certain cases, and i>llow that with improved appliances the tape may also be used where the greatest accuracy is desired. How far it would be practicable to substitute base lines of lesser accuracy with the tape or some other

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

397

appliance, but with greater frequency than has heretofore been practiced, I think can be best determined by an examinr.tion of the schemes that. have been completed under a. system of base lines and angular work of great precision. In primary work 110 diminution should be permitted in the accuracy of the resnlts; but in relation to smaller work-that is, tertiary or subsidiary between the stronger schemes-it is quite possible that such work, being checked by its surroundings, could be executed with a less degree of rcfi11eme11t and he perfectly satisfactory.
'l'HIAN<TULA'.l'ION.

I believe that the classes ~f trigonometrical work have heretofore been defined more hy the length of the sides than by the character of the work. It has always seeme1l to me that this lecl to greater or less confusion, as mauy schemes. embracing 'sides that onlinarily would be considered secondary in reality form a piece of prinrnry work. I therefore suggest that "primary triangulation" shoultl desigm~te only the scheme that is recognized to be the best that could be carried through the region; limited by a minimum leng·th for the sides of the triangles; the "secondary triangulation" to be u ·Scheme admitted not to be the largest, nor of primary value, also limited by a minimum length of triangle sides. Anything smalfor than seeonda.ry work would be tertiary, and those f'chemes to be use1l exclusively for the detail to be designated" subsidiary." In describing a piece of work under such a plan, we. might have a ''primary triangulation" with secondary sides or a" secondary triangulation" with primary sides. These descriptions wouhl convey quite clearly the strength of the work and the generul character of the scheme. It will doubtless be admitted by all that primary work should have the greatest strength that can be obtained with a reasonabie·deg-ree of effort and outlay. But just what h; reasonable it would be hard to define by rules; and it seems to me, therefore, that the primary work of the Coast Survey must be left, as heretofore, almost entirely to the judgment 0£ the officer executing· the worl~. It may be that the gooatly improved instruments Wl' now have will permit of the establishment .of a limit of probable error for primary angles, and that when this has been obtained in the observations no further measure of the angles should be made, of course the observations being qualified by a stated number, as the minim nm of repetitions for an angle. A similar rule, or simply to limit the repetitions, might be sufficient in secondary t!iangulation a11d all smaller work. I believe it is quite prn~sible at times to reduce the checks required in a, triangulati011. 'fhat would in some instances lessen the number of stations to be occupied and the number of angles to be measured. With imperfect instruments we naturally teel that the check should be strong; hut with those uow available I see no reason why plain

898

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

triangles should llot be occasionally introduced without fear of materially affecting the reliability of the resulting work. The quadrilateral, we may a<lmit, affords all the check that is 1iecessary for tho strongest work. Upon the reduction of the quadrilaterals we canjudge of the value of a triangle and the reliability of the instrument used, and therefore where difficult ground is enconntered that could be readily overcome by the use of the single triangle but would require grnat labor to spread a stronger figure, it seems to me that the t1faugle might be accepted, provided, of course, that the instrument has been demonstrated to he a reliable one. 'rhe schemes of trianirulation proposed in late years for the complete survey of the whole country are doubtless quite sufficieut. The gridiron system has entirely snpplauted the original SU;6gestion of Professor Peirce, to cover the whole territory of the United States with a figure that would form 011e huge quadrilateral. '£he later projects are prob· ably more easy of attainment, aud will, I believe, afford a better distribution of the work for the 1mbsequent delineation of details, and probably will be quite sufficient for combination with the work abroad in ascertaining the figure of tl1e earth. The pr~jccts of other nations will doubtless be studied in this connection, to fully determine the relations that may be practicable. l\Iy brief experience.in Alaska was quite suflicient to satis(y me that any attempt to carry a primary triangulation from the mountain tops would be one of great labor and expense, arising from the great preva· lence of cloud and mist, obscuring the view from a11y considerable elevation. For da_p; at a time the mountain summits are in clouds, while along the water it is clear and good observing weather. A triangulation near the water, or not many hundred feet above, w011l(l probably be the most practicable if we consider time and expense; a11d there are many hills of 200 or 300 feet in elevation that could be utilized in such work, permitting generally a much better scheme than could be' conducted from the shore liuc directly. The work we 11ow have in Alaska is doubtless quite sufficient for local purposes of cartography, and I believe it is very questionable if we require a stronger scheme laid over it until such time as the country indicates a far greater development to be possible than we uow have any reason to anticipate. From the northward and westward of Cross Sound, the northern boundary of the Alexander Archipelago, we have a long stretch of coast to the .Aleutian Islands, over which it would be difJieult to carry a triangulation of precision, principally in consequence of the fogs which usually prevail in the summer f'eason; but I am firmly of the opinion that 110 attempt should be made to conduct work of tliat order along this stretch of coast. A first-class reconnaissance, I believe, will be sufficient to develop the regiou to the fall measure of its value.

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PART II.

399

In extendiug the work over the Aleutian Islands the reconnaissance can be strengthened by basing it upon a triangulation, but I doubt if it should be a work any stronger than is necessary for cartographi~ purposes. To the northward, along the shores of Hering Sea, I believe a first· class reconnaissance would be all sufficient, for the same reasons I have assigned for that section of the coast north aJHl west of Cross Sound. Probably one of the most important places to be examined-the mouth of the Yukon River-is within this section. There have been in the past several reports tliat there is a deep-water entrance in one of the mouths of this river, and I should consider it desirable to have au examination made of the whole delta at the earliest practicable date to determine the most availablB entrance to the river.
IN GENERAL.

It does not seem to me possible to make any 1ixed rules to govern party organization, camps, outfit, etc., as each case must depend very l~rgely upon the nature of the country and the importa.uce of the work undertaken, espeeially in regard to the necessity for immediate execution. Where there is ample time, party outfit can be considerably reduced and the expenditure distributed over a longer veriod than would be deemed desirable if the work were in a locality that required the results to be obtained in the shortest possible time. Rules to g·overn the degree of accuracy required in a field computation shoulfl be suggested by the chief of the computing division; but I think we should bear in mind the desirability of rc1lucing the labor of the field computation to the minimum, for to produce a complete reduction frequently requires au expenditure of time on the part of the field officer in the preparations of computations, afterwards duplicated in the office, that might be delegated to the experts of the office force in the first place, thus relieving the field officer for new operations in the fiel<l. As I have bad but one season's experience in the field for a number of years, I do not feel justified in criticising the question of accounts and relations of field officers to the disbursing agent: It gives me plea.sure to put on record, however, that the single experience 1 have· had of late was entirely satisfactory to me, although I found very many changes had been made in the Elystcm of renderi11g accounts since my previous field service. And it seems to me that the present regulations permitting supplemental accounts for arrears that could not he included wheu the party accc;mi1ts for tl1e month were rendered affords every facility that is essential for the proper classification of oxpeuditurns under dates and periods.

400

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
LETTER FROM HENRY L. WHITING, ASSISTANT. UNITED ST.A.TES COA8'1' AND GEODE'l'IC SURVEY,

West Tisbury, Jfass., February 6, 189.J. My presence in Boston and attention to matters connected with the publication of the report of the State commission, which could not well be set aside, is my excuse for not sooner replying to your letter relating to the Geodetic Conference and the invitation to pre8ent in writing my views or comments on any of the su~jects mentioned. In response I feel induced to submit a few remarks on the topic of "Schemes of triangulation, necessary and desirable, bearing in mind their utility in fixing boundary lines (State and national)." I am led to this not as offering suggestions to yourself and the other .'.Assistants of the Survey wilo have had more experience than I in this ·branch of our work, but to give such i11formatiou concerning the prac· tical execution of the Massachusetts town boundary survey as my connection with it, and, in fact, direction of it, as the executive member of the State commission, has enabled me to possess, and that may bear on the su~jects you have under consideration. This survey of Massachusetts is, so far as I am aware, the first work of the kind syst-ematically undertaken by any State, and is therefore, from lack of precedent, htrgely experimental in its operations. At the outset of the l\Iassachusetts surveys the commissioners, fore· seeing the necessity of very considerable additional triangulation beyond that of the Borden snrvey and the far-reaching stations of tlie Coast and Geodetic Survey in the interior of the State, and as Congress had already provided that the Coast and Geodetic Survey should furnish neceadary triangulation to any State making its topographical .or geological survey, the commission applied to its superintendent to supply such auditional triangulation to Massachusetts as might be needed i11 the proper exeeution of the contemplated work, to whicll a most cordial affirmative response was given. '.rhe vague and inaceurate manner in which the boundary lines of many towns are described and the imperfect way in which they have been located a~ facts within the knowledge of nearly every selectman or those who have had to do with municipal affa,irs. A good topographical map, upon which the locations of town lines are accurately shown, will be a great auxil~ary in identifying the positions of the various points and angles in them; but the determination of the lines should not he an incident in the survey or depend upon the plottings of the map, but should, on the contrary, be effected with sueh precision as to be a basis for the survey itself and form a framework, as it were, to which all other surveys within its Iimfts could be referred. The laws of Massachusetts relating to .this matter are not 1mfficiently definite or comprehensive.

REPORT FOR 1893 - P:ART II.

401

By the provisions of the Pnblie Statutes (1882), chapter 27, sections 1 to G, n, duty is imposed on the selectmen of towns, 'under n, forfeiture of $20, namely, "There shall be a perambulation of town lines, and they shall lJe ru11 and the marks renewed once in every lhc ~'cars." The1·e is 110 system~ of survey 11or manner of ru n11ing these lines pre· scribed, aud it may and does occur that adjoii1ing towns use different ways and means in performing this work, with different degrees of accuracy,. which must of necessity give different results. In .rna11y cases the only bases for the location of a town lJoun<lary are in the monuments markillg the m1gles in their respective lines. 'rhese are often in hidden and inaccessible places, on the summits or in the gorges of wooded mountains and hills, where their positions in relation to other points can not lJe aceurately determiuctl lJy ordinary processes of surveying. 'rhe system Of determining town lines by triangulation was a part of Mr. Simeon Borden's masterly scheme of the t\tatn survey, devised fifty years ago, and was partially carried out and several points in the State boundary line were included in his triangulation, but the determination of town boundaries was not practically canie1l out. Such a plan would give to the State government, and to each municipality in it, a perfect record of the exact boundary of each city and town in the Commonwealth, and in so rnethodical and precise a manner that auy city or town engineer or m;dinary land surveyors could reproduce the exact position of n11y point in any line. The system of reconl Rl10uld lJe uniform with that of the other geographical positions determined by the triangulation of the State surv1\y~ giving the latitude and longitude of each point, probalJly within lor 2 feet of its true position; whereas, as now described, mauy angles and even whole lines arc probalJly out of position hundreds of yards, and in some places hundreds of rods. In their various reports to the commission the field officers refer to coutinued emlJarrassment in conducting the survey because of the uncertain and imperfect records of township boundaries and the difficulty of obtaining rclialJle information in regard to them. Many citi: ze11s offieially intercstCll in this <:lass of pu1Jli~1 matters arc unaware of the nature and detail of the present survey, and of how much the State is doi11g through it!i commissioners that should be done by its 1mmici1)al officers. If the perambulation records were even geogTuphically descri\Jed, and distinguishable marks put in place to indicate where the boundary angles and corners were, tlie labor and cost of' their aceurate determination by triangulation 'would be much lessene11. It way Hot be out of place in this connection briefly to describe some of the detailed operations of tlie present survey. Ou going into n, new section thl3 officer in. charge first gets from the selectmen of the towns concerned copies of' the late~t perambulations. In case.-J where the selectmen are in doubt as to a certain corlier or angle, they look i1p older peramlmlations aud confer with former select1

s. Ex. l!J, pt. 2-26

402

U. S. CO.A.ST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

men in regard to them. After getting all the information obtainable, officers of the survey go on to the ground, taking up ~me town at a time and finding successively every corner in the line. They then ascertain, by climbing tl·ees and going Oil the top of hills nearest each bouwlary point, what k1i'own stations, or available sites for new ones, will command the respective corners or boun<lary points, and deci<le as to tlte height of the si-gnal ne('.essary in each case. The height of the signals to be erected varies from 8 to 100 feet. 'l'he shorter signals are usually built directly oil the mouume11t. 'Yhcre a signal has to be from 50 to 100 feet high, it is generally in consequence of wooded ground, where tall, straight young trees can lie cnt, and, if nec-essary, seyeral of them spliced together. Three wire guys are then made fast to the signal pole at each place where it is spliced. A fall and block is made fast to tho signal and to some suitable tree near it, and the signal is raise<l into place. \Vhere it is not possible to make a boundary corner a point of triangulation, a station is selected as near the corner as practicable, arnl a traverse run to the boundary point. 'rhese traverse measurements are made with a steel tape. Where a bend in tho traverse line is necessary, the angle of deflection is carefully measured. with the theodolite. Each eveuing the angles taken during the day are checked and an allstrad made of .them. A rough '' triaugle sides" computation ii:! also kept up. The work of locating the town boundaries by triangulation i:; a much ~reater umlertakiug than was supposed at the outset. In fact, it involves a second triangulation of the State and a determination of some thousands of points in addition to the few hundred which the first survey lly l\Ir. Borden comprehen<led. But its value when completed is so evident that no oue who understan<ls it can fail to see that it is a work oi' eminently practical economy. The present con<lition of the records of town llouuda'l:ies is simply scandalous in a State like :l\[assachusetts. The law of the Commonwealth, which provides for the perambulation or "running ont" of all the town boundaries once in five years, was well devised to secure tlie intended object, namely, the prcseryation of town boundaries; but the implie<l requisition of a quinqneunia l resurvey of the lines is practically a dead letter, all the towns justly regarding it as involving au unreasonalJle and unnecessary expense. The geueral custom throughout the St.ate has been for the selcctmei1 of every two adjacent towns to visit together the monuments of the boundary as dcscrilJed in previous perambulation records, an<l if the monuments were found stan<ling a new perambulation record was filed as required by law, usually copied from the former one, not infrequently perpetuating gross errors and sometimes introducing new ones t-0 be copied in future records. Since each new set of perambulation records is sig-n<~<l by the representatives of tho two towns interested, imbseqnent dispute or litigation ove1· the locatio11s of town honn(faries would seem to he debarred. Uut as years pass on there is great danger,

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

403

even with this precaution, that confusioh will ultimately arise from tpe uncertainty attending the positions of monuments· remote and inconveniently accessible from human habitations. In fact, a comparison of the later perambulation records of many towns with ones, more ancient shows that changes have taken place in boundaries as at present recognized, quite important in the amomit of territory involved, but unauthorized, by legislative actio11.: Other perambulation records are so vague· and indefinite in their descriptions of locatio11s, directions, and distances that it would be ditlicult, if not impossible, to say where the real boundary was to be found. Sometimes the actual boundaries as recognized by the selectmen are essentially different from those given in somewhat recent acts of incorporation, and seem to require confirmatory legislative action. It often happens that the knowle1lge of the location of a sequestered monument is confined to the memory of a single person, whose age and decrepitude make it difficult for him to go to the place and point it out. '.l'here are many lloundary monuments of whose locations uo available record exists sufficient to restore them if personal memories of them should be lost by the death of the person or persons possessing these memories; nor could any change of locations arising from carelessness or malicious mischief be detected. After the work now in progress is completed, whose cost, at t~w rates of the work already done, will uot be likely to exceed the cost of' a single "running out" of the lines by the older methods of' chain and compass, there can be no danger of losing the position of a monument, siuce it can be restored with absolute certainty from the chain of triangulation points upon which the whole work is based.
'-.\UALI'l'Y OF 'l'HB MASSAOHUSWl''.l'S WORK.

In order that the town boundary survey of Mass!telmsetts might have the benefit of the criticism of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and its indorsement if deserve1l, the State commissioners requested the Superinteude11t to inform them of the result of the examination of the data submitted for that purpose. The followiug are quotations from the report ot' Mr. Schott upon the subject:
COMPUTDICf DIVISION COAST AND G1mUE'l'W

SunvF.\-,

1V<1slii11gl.011, D. C., ,Tan11a1·y 20, 1891.
DEAit Sm: At tho roquest of tho commissioners for lllassnchnsotts, au<l for their information, I luwo the houor to rnpo1·t to you t.ho pr11sent st a to of the computatious covering tho triangulation maclo in tho yonrs 1885 to 1889, inclusive. The work comprises mninly triangulation uoede1l for tho cletormi natiou of tho houmlaries of conn ties antl towns. Tho computations antl adjustments wore intrusto<l to Mr. E. IL Courtenay, of the computing division, one of tho most oxpcrienco<l computur11 in t.his bmuch of the Survey. In gl·uoral, tho method omployllll ii; that stated by mo in t.he introduction . to the "Geographical 11osi tions in tho Sta ks of :MaHHttchusettH nrnl Hho<le Islnml," Appendix No. 8, Heport of tho Unit.o<l Stafr.11 Coast nn<l Ge()(lut.ic Sm·\·oy for 1885. 'rhe priucipn.l figures for a<ljustwont by tho mothod of loasttiquaros wore laid out uud

404

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY1

attended to by Mr. Courtenay, and assistance was given him for the solution of the numerous equations involved aml for all mere clerical work. Tlte services of Mr. Daniel L. Hazard were furnished by the commission, und theRe ~,·ere given in the mol!t effecth·e lllllllller since he reported hero for duty, December 13, 1889. Two thousand five huudr<:cl and ninety-five triangles, of which about ti.tree-fourths are completed, will ultimately bo vlaced in the hands of the commission, as well us 1 112 positions of trigonometrical stations,. of which o.bout one-half arc at present completed. Tho boundary work" of 1885-1889 thus exceeds in results all that had 1ireviously been done in the sam~ region, and nearly cc1uals tho work previously done in the entire State by the Con.st and Geodetic Survey, inclusive of .Borden's; and it should be born<i in mind that this now work covers but two-fifths of the area of the Rtate. Tho quality of tlte work is Romewhat inferior to tho best of the secondary work previously executed. This is owing in part to tho groat number of eccentric stations employed an<l the numerous spires observed and occupied, ancl yet I consider it sufficiently accurate for the purpose iutendcd. The work is so interlacecl ti.tat no serious error could exist. Yours, respectfnlly, UnAs. A. ScHoTI, .AsHista1.t, in charge Co111p11ti11g Dit'ision. Dr. T. C. J\b:NJ>E:>llALI., Superi11te11de11t l.711itecl ,'itat1:s Coast t1'/ltl Geodetio Sm·t·ey.

Considering the peculiaritiel'l of a municipal bOl)<ndary survey like that of Massachusetts in relation to the difficulties, labor, and expense of its execution, the determination of points-" corners" and "angles"in the various lines, is, perhaps, the best criterion of the value and amount of work accomplished in a given time and at a given cost, rather than the number of townships surveyed or the area of country included in them. The method of determiuiug Hpecial points previously located, in obscure as well as in accessible places, differs essentially from that of ordinary triangulation, where the points are selectetl, as far as practicable, to form well-conditioned triangles, and where, if a location does not answer this purpose, another is sought for that will do so. · But in the case of boundary points, many of which are in th.ick woodland, in hollows an<l swamps, and otherwise inaccessible positions, the scheme work must be so arranged as to reach and determine each individual point. In other words, tlie triangulation must conform to the situation of E\~:isting points since the situation of points can not be arranged to favor the triangulation.

of

PAR'l'Y ORGANIZA.TION-UAMPS AND OUTFl'l'; l'OSSIHILl'l' Y OF REDUCTION IN THEIR SIZE ·AND COST.

This question is one of the most important and critical we have to deal with. Health, strength, enthusiasm, and the consciousness of being well supported and well supplied are large eiemcntR of success in sustaining the mental and physical iuceutives to labor in performing the work required 'in the field operations of the Coast aud Geodetic Survey. I

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

405

need not quote the military philosopher who has Raid that to de(eat the enemy he only asked tbe control of the commissariat. Good tents or quarters or cabins, good lJeds, cots, or berths~ promoting rest and sleep, and good food should be provided. I believe it true of all the field corps of the Survey, that they are ready and willing to bear e:fposure and privation in emergency; but to be on "short commons" throughout a long season is not in the logic of best economy .or !>est results. For the transportation of the personnel, instruments, and equipments: of .our field parties the most approved applianclls should be provided .. We see this principle exemplified in organizations where efficiency a.nd economy are the keys to the situation. In the transportation of our· mails and the matter of our large express companies, the !Jest horses,. best harness, and most suitable wagons. In work that requires thei use of vessels and boats, they should be adapted to the na.ture of thei survey, the climate, and tlle waters in which they are to be used. Crews should l>e sufficient for the most effective service. With regard to instmments, tlle late Topographical Conference considered and reported at length, and I think with wisdom, on that subject. I have lately received,a letter in acknowledgment of 11 copy of the report of the Topographical Conference in which the writer, who is among our best instrument makers, says:
From a perusnl of it I 111111 it to.contain much of interest to us nnd to our profession, o.nd as soon as timo pormits wo sh11ll l>o glad to·act 011 some of tho suggestions mnde by tho experts of ~ho Coast uud Gllodotic Snrvoy so for us they reluto to improvements in the instruments we mauufoeturo.

This is, at least, oue of the g-ood points of our conference. For the examination, +epair, and adjustment of instrumentR intended for the field, the office of the Survey would seem to be the prope1· place. I hope my colleague will bear with me in these perhaps unnecessary remarks, when they bring to mind the fact that in some of the branches of the Survey I have had au experience of a good many years, both with my own party and in visiting many others of the Survey. I can at least give this testimony, that so far as my observation has gone the parties that have been the best equipped are those. that have done the most and the best work.

LETTER FROM EDWARD GOODFELLOW, ASSISTANT.
UNITED ST.A.'l'ES 00AST AND GEODETIC SURVEY,

1Vashington, D. O., Jamtary 27, 1894. In response to your recent letter conveying an invitation to present· in writing my views on any or all of the subjects outlined for discusAion by the Geodetic Conference, I would submit a brief statement with regard to base measurement.

406

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC 8URVE_Y.

It may be assumed, perhaps, that as in the past there have been needed in the progress of the Survey some bases measured with a high degree of' accuracy and a larger nnmlrnr measured with less refinement, so it will be in the future, U:ud that the study of the highest degree of precision of measurement will continue, due reganl being paid to economy in cost and time. The table* which I present to accompany thiH communication, giving· data in regard to the chief primary bases mea!-;mcd since 18-!5, may be of service to the Oonforencc.

LETTER FROM F. W. PERKINS, ASSISTANT, INCLOSING A COMMUNICATION FROM FOREMAN E. E. TORREY RELATING TO THE BUILDING OF HIGH TRIPODS AND SCAFFOLDS FOR OBSERVING PURPOSES.

w ASIIINGTON, D. c., February 2-J, 1894.
I liand you herewith an article upon signal building which was prepared at my request by Foreman E. E. Torrey, whose extensive experi· ence iu buildiug high tripods and scaffolds gives it special value:
NOTEH ON SIGNAL DUILDING.
(By E. R TO!ll!EY.]

The signal may be framed at any convenient place, the pieces numbered, and then hauled to the &. If the framing is to be done on the ground it is best to separate the lumber into pileR of the different lengths, so that each desired pieee may he readily selected when required by the carpenters. The timbers not needed in the earlier operations, such as tlrn inside braces, floor sca.ntlings, and stairways, should be used as sleepers to make a level surface for accuratn framing. '.l'he ftooriug awl other boards may be .made into a temporary shed to shelter t1ie tools and ropes from the weatlier. Up to 75 feet in height one side of tripod, completely framed, may be raised at once. The derrick Hlrnuld he at least two.thirds of the height of the structure to be raised. If a suitable tree should happen to be in. a co11veuieut place, it may be utilized as a derrick and afterwards cut down and removed; but one can be quickly made by using tlle lower two sections of the scaffold legs, the top ends lashed securely together and the bottoms spreading about 3 feet apart, like a pair of shears. Temporary cleats should be nailed along its length to keep the two parts from spreading. This makes a good derrick aud from material already at band. Use three guys to the derrick. The back guy, which should lead directly opposite from the weight to be raised, should be very i;;trong and preferably a tackle. '.l'he other guys, which should lead at an angle of 120°from the hack guy (and from each other), may be of
*Table om bodied in tho report of the Committee on Base Lines.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.

407

lighter rope, as hut little strain should come on them. Should the scaffold legs be of light material, it would be well to put a middle set of guys on tlie cforrick to prevent its "buckling" under the strain. For the side guys strong l)OSts set 4 feet in the ground at an angle inclining from the & will be sutncient to secure to, bnt I would not risk such a fastening for the back guy. If there is 110 11aturnl object, i;;uch as a tree trunk, in the desired direction, a pit shoul<l bo dug 4 feet deep and Gfeet long at right angles to the guy rope. At the bottom of this a round iog G inches or Ro in diameter i:> placed, with a stout strap around its middle to hook the tackle of guy to. A narrow trench should be dug sloping from the mi du le of the log (or "dea.d man") to the surface of the ground, so that the direction of the strain shall be in a straig·bt line from the log· underg-romul to the top of tho derrick. For 110isting, a pol'table winch with pawls, secured to the foot of the derrick, is desirable; but it' the hoisting is uone through a leading block with l1orses or other vower, it should lw seen to that the foot of the derrick is well secured, and it would be well to haven man with a snubbing ro1lc on the fall to control the hoisting. In digging the 11oles for the foundation do uot spend time in getting the bottoms all exactly on the same leval, especially if the ground is sloping or uneven, but dig one of them to tl1e depth as required by the plan, and use it as a bench mark for the others. After tl1e platforms . are tn.m11ed in the holes and the 8hoC's set, get a round of levels of the different platforms and saw off the lo\H'r ends of tlie tripod a11d scaf- . fold legs either above or below: the mark of the plan length, ns the differences in depths of the 11oles require. Care must be taken to get solid foundation for the platforms to prevent settling of the sig11al when up. In marshy ground dig the l1oles deep, lay a tier of small logs across the bottom, ram them, and cover with a layt'l' of dry earth before setting up the plank platforms. ·
:FllAMl!\U TIUl'OI>.

Make scarfing for splices as <lescribe<l by Assista11t C. O; Boutelle; that is, 3 feet in length, with 11ooked ends, aud use r> bolts to each splice. "\Vhen the lower lengths of the tl'ipod legs are of lnrger dii,1en.sions than the upper, which they should be in a high signal, an offset slwuld be made in the larger stickl'l, l"O tlmt the outside faces of the completed legs may be in a couti1lllOUS line. The splices should be fitted snugly together, the bolts inserted, and nail holes 011 ends of the scarf~ bored. The nmls are 11ot drh·en at this time if the tripod is to be raised in sect.ions. The legs, now bolted to their full length, a.re laid on the sleepers as level as possible and measured and marked for the chamfering. Measme tlie length of each section of leg to make certain that no part of the bracing shall come on a splice. Begim;iing at the top ends, make a nrnrk across tile back with a T square, and with the bevel square along the sides. 'rhe angle at which the bevel should be set may be computed or taken from the working plan. The full

408

U. S. C.OAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

length of the leg, as taken from the plan, is measured carefully alon_g the leg, aud similar marks made paralJel to those at the top. ·Beginning ~it the top again, tl1e distances to each of the croi-;s braces are measured and marked. The measures should l>e verified to prevent mistakes. The top ends may uow b~ sawed off on the marks, and the bottom ends either so much above or below the wark of the plan lcugth as the difference in levels of the foundation platform.<> may require. The inside of the top ends are cut to angle l.:W 0 , i-;o that the three sticks may come snugly together at the top when llJI. :Make chamfors 1 ·5 inches and 2·6 inches as hearing ourfaces to rniil the braces to. 'fhey do not materially weaken a() by() inch timber: It is convenient to ma,ke a pattern for tllis chamfer by 11ai1i11g two strips of wood together edgewis~, 18 inches loug and tlie required inside measures. .All the chamfers on the three legs being made, two of the Jegs are stretcl1ed aloug the sleepers with their top ends near together nud the bottoms spreading apart the required distance. The legs are hlockell to rest on their edges, bringing the broader chamfered spaces on top and horizontal. The cross braces, carcfolly measured from the working plan, are nailed temporarily,, by spikes driven partly home, to the places marked for. them on the legs. Cut these cross braces it Jittle larger tl1an tlie measured length, so as to give a smaU overhang, "·hich Jei;;seus the chances of the eu,ds splitting from the nail holes. It is not necessary to measure the diagonal braces, but when two of the cross braces l1ave been fastened to the legs ''square" that section. This is readily done by moving one or other of tl1e Jegs u11til the distances between opposite diagonal comers of the sec'tion coincide. Then Jay the diago11al braces in their places and mark them to be sawed so that 3 iucllcs or so of their ends shall rest snugly against tho adjacent cross brace. Nail them temporarily with one spike at each comer, and born the l1oles for the second nails and at tile intersections. Square and frame each section separately until a side of the tripod is completed. After numbering each piece, the side is· all taken apart and the braces laid adjacent to the side where they will be required in building. The fqllowiug is a convenient way of munberi11g the small timber~, and if, when 1he braces are removed, they are laid with odd iiumbers to the left a11d even numbers to the right aud facing the&, they will be in the right position to be sent aloft to the carpeuters in tl,ie 1h1al building. (lllustration No. 18.) . No~ I leg is now put on one side, No. I1 is brought to tile place of No. I, and No. III to the place of No. II, and the second side framed. as before and the pieces laid to their proper side. No. II leg is now finished as far as the framing is cou.cerned, aud is laid aside. No. III leg is brought to No. II's position and No. I brought to where No. Ill was. Wheii all three sides have been thus framed and the braces removed, irnil cleats along the full length of each -leg for the carpenters to climb by. These may be made from 1 by 4 inch strips sawed 14 inches long aud nailed 15 inches apart.

U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II.

No. 18.

Secli..on, of' Observing Tripod. ll. S. Coa,sl and Geodetic Survey

REPORT P'i)R 1893. -PART II.

409

The scaffold may be framed uow or later. Iu showery or unsettled weather keep on framing, as it is work that can be suspended at any time, while when raising, the workmen should not leave until everything is secure. In a high signal tlie multiplicity of the braces on the grouud may make confusion, so, if possible, commenee raising the tripod as soon as it is framed. lfaise and complete the tripod to its full height before building up nny of the scaffold. Up to 75 feet n whole side of tripod may be raised nt once, but in higher. signals it should be raised in parts. It being determined to take the two lower lengths of a side at the first lift, tlie splices of that section should be tightly bolted and the nails at the thin ends driven, and tlie legs placed so that their lower ends 0Yerha11g the holes that are to receive them. The crossties and the diagonals of the part to be raised are spiked to the legs, care being taken that each nail is driven home and in the same holes that were made at the first framing. The nails at the intersections . and the second i~ails at tho ends of the braces arc tightly driven .. Double guys arc attached to near the upper ends of the legs and holdbucks to the feet. These may be of a single stout piece of rope or a small tackle, and are secured to posts set in the ground for tho purpose, and are ~o be cased away during the process of hoisting so that the feet ma.y come naturally to the shoes provided for them. A stout rope is fastened as a bridle to the two legs n short distance froni the top, and the block of the hoistiug tackle hooked into its bight, the free end of the fall taken to the wincl1, and the framework raised to its position. The guys are 11ow tigl1tcncd and secured and the structure made as rigid as possible. 1'he third leg of the tripod is now bolted together (or as much of it as is purposed to raise, say one length louger than that already raised). No braces are fastened to this leg before raising, and with a wineh a rope tllrough a single block 11t the top of the part already raised hi sufficient to lift it. Two sots of guys, one near the top and the other about the middle, are needed here, with tt man at Cl~ch set of guys to guide,the timber in the raising. Vlhen set to the required inclination, it is hclcl in that position by the guy ropes, aud small blocks with hauling lines rove' through them are attached to each leg a short distance above the lower section. The carpenters with their heavy hammers and extra spikes take their positions Oil the legs, and the lower and second cross-ties are sent up and nailed to the marks. The diagonals of these sections are also sent up by the hauling lines, and ti1e slope of the legs adjusted by means of the guys so that the nails of tho braces will cotne to the holes made in the first framing, and all nails in the section are driven solidly. Before carrying· tlle bracing any higher, fill up the foundation holes, nailing solid logs as anchors to the feet of the legs and ramming the earth as it is shoveled into the holes. The small hauling lines are shiftml higher on the legs and the bracinp; is carrictl np until the tl'ipod has its three sides braced equally high and one length of the third leg· projecting· aboYe the rest.

410

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The heavy derrick is uow taken down and apart and the winch secured to the thircl trip0<l leg, where it remains for all the other operations. A'. single block is secured to the top of the projectin~ Ill leg, ap.d the end of fall lea11ing down inside of' tripod is bent on to a length of leg I (or 11), about one-third from its top, and hoisted by the wincli. When free of the framed part, guys are bent on .and the Jt0isti11g continued until a man ut the top of the leg I (or II) can pull the foot of the length l10isted, over to its i-;plice, and, holdi11g· the two parts of the splice together with a few turns of rope, the guys are pulled out aud hoisting rope slackened until the two parts of the splice come into place, when the splice is isecured by its bolts and nails. The corresponding leugth is raised in the same way, and the bracing on the three sides carried up to their tops. This leaves the tripod braced to an even height, with no projecting leg to use for a derrick for continuing the building: The next· length of leg is sent up as 11 topmast is sent up a mast, and is temporarily used as a derrick. The hoisting rope is bent on at the foot and "stopped'' at intervals along its length. A man, at the top of tl1e completed vart of the tripod, bends on the guys and a single block and fall as the top of the length being raised reaches him, and takes a few IooHe turns of rope around both the completed leg and the part bei11g raised to act as a "cap" or guides, while another man follows up the foot to keep the f;tick from getting a cant or slue while being raised. This derrick Rhould he hoi:;;ted so that at least three-fonrths of its full length is above the completed part of tripod, when the lower part mm;t be securely lashed to the standing tnpod leg, the guys tighteucd, and the fall of the hoisting rope sent down inside the tripod. The length to be raised by this derrick should have the hoisting rope bent on just above its center of weigl1t, tbe g·uys handled, a11d the splice brought to its place on the completed part in the same way as described before. The corresponding length being raised in the same way, this side is braced to its top, the hoisting rope shifted to the higl1er point, and the length used as a derrick hoisted the few feet necessary to bring it to its splice, a11d the bracing completed evenly on the three sides. And so on until the full height is reached. Then put on the inside bracing and struts, and complete the streng·thening of the tripod, which is now used as a derrick in buildiug up the scaffold. In the case of a very large signal; it may be found that the top of the projecting third leg in the earlier stages may be too far away as a derrick to allow the corresponding lengths to be readily brought to place. I should then send up some other convenient stiek of timber (any of the upper lengths of the tripod leg are available), lash the liecl of it to the foot of the projecting third leg, and with a back guy, rove through a block near top of projecting leg, and side g·uys to the ground, it can be given the necessary slope and hehl iu any desired position for use as a derrick. As the building progresses, the size of the inclosed tria.ngle becomes smaller aml au iucliued derrick will not be needed.

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.
FUAllUNG 8CA1'1"QLD,

411

Make the s~arfs 011 scaffold legs with square ends, iust~all of hooked like the tripod, as in that form they are more co11vcnic11tly brought to their places in the method used in building. The four legs, bolted together for their fnll length, are laid on the sleepers, measured for length and for distances between cross-ties, and marked from the outside corner for the required bevel across the two outside faces; tops sawed off at the marks and at the bottoms, as the foundation levels may 'require. Cross-tics are measured and temtlorarily fitstened at the proper mal'ks and each section is "squared" before putting on the diagonals. Do not mortise the legs for receivi11g the cross-tics, as they are kept firmly iu tlrnir places by tho <liago11als being cut with a shoulder, as described iu tripod framing. 'l'he bracing is sawed off evenly with the legs, no overllang being given. Put the bracing evenly on adjacent sides, excepti11g on the uppermost tier on the two sides that are to receive the 1loor.scanilings. As one side is framed, the bracing is numbered and removed to a convenient place, the legs transposed on the . sleepers, an(l so 011 u11til the four sides have been framed.
l!AISJXG SCAFl'OLI>,

The two large tackles are sent to the tripod hea<l and overhauled down on opposite sides. 'rho topmost sections of two opposite sides are solidly framed with their tops pointing to the tripod aud iifted by the tackles, so that they may rest against tl1e tripod with tl1eir lower ends on the ground. In a signal of moderate size the intermediate sectious may be raiRed in the same way, :tll(l lcft resting against the tripod in the order of their positiou. In a lal'ge signal, where a middle leg is carried in a section, the frames arc too wide and cumbersome to be haudled with facility at an elevation, so merely up-end the different lengths of each scaffold leg and let them rest ngaiust the tripod till required. 'rhe lowest sections of corrcspondiug sides aro .now tightly framed, with intersections bolted, and are placed with their tops close to the tripod. A strong bridle rope is attached to near the top of each leg, and the tackle hooked into its bight. A long bight should be mude to moderate the tendency of the frame to buckle together, and a supplementary strap should be used from tho middle leg to prevent the sagging of the frame or undue straining in the 110istiug. Double guys are secured to each leg near its top and the section lifted, the lower ends dragging along the ground and guided to their platforms by a man at each foot. These two lower sections on opposite sides being lifted and their feet adjusted to their shoes, the frnmcs are brought to the required inclinat.iou by means of the guys; tl1e carpenters take their places on the legs (the middle legs of the other two sides having been set in their holes), and the connecting braciug between tl1e two frames is bolted and nailed, the nails being brought to their in'dicated nail holes by the

412

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

guy ropes, as described in tripod building·. The feet may now be anchored and the lioles filled and tamped. A rope through a single block at tripod head is fastened about one-third of the way down on the next length of leg to IJe raised, guys are fastened to it as it is l1oisted clear of the frame already up, and, with a man following up its foot and bringing it to its splice, the guys give it the required inclination and the splice is bolted and uailed. The corresponding lengths of leg for this.section are sent up in tho same way and the braces sent up to the carpenters until the four sides are completely braced to an even height. The remaining intermediate Hections are sent up in a similar manner, until there are left only the two uppermost sections, which are already framed and resting against tlie tripod on the ground inside the scaffold square. The bridles on tbeim frames are fastened to the legs just above the center of weight and the large tackles hooked to them. The bight of this bridle must be short or the tackle will come to "two blocks" before the necessary height is gained. It does not matter in this piece of frame, as it is so narrow and well braced that there is no danger of its buckling. In hoisting this piece, a man should follow it np along the tripod to keep it from catching against cleats or other projections on the tripod. Guys are put on at the very top of this frame, and when it is hoi&ted liigh enough, a man at the top of each scaffold leg hauls the foot over to its splice and holds it there, with a turn of rope, while men at the guy ropes.pull the top over to the required incliuatioµ, the hoisting tackle beiug gradually slackened, and the splices are bolted aud nailed. The connecting bracing between the two sides an<l the diagonals between this a11d the next lower sections are seut up and secured, and the framewo~·k of the signal is completed. . The inside bracing of the scaffold should next be fitted and sprung in.to place, tile floor laid, trapdoor i~tted, tripod head ?nished. off, and the stairs put up. A ladder forni of stairway, with 2 by G inch sides and 1 by 4 inch strips 2 feet Jong mid 11ailed 12 inches apart for steps, is commonly used, thougli a form giving a broader tread would undoubtedly be more comfortable in use. The stairways should have landings at each section and may be made to wind around the tripod or to zigzag up the widest space. Au inside hand rail Rhould be provided. All parts of the stairway are connected to the Beaffold alone, and 110 connection of any kind is to be allowed between the tripod and tlie scaffold structures. · The permanent wire guys should be set up when the temporary rope guys used in building are removed. The ground ends of these' wire guys may be secured to tree trunks or any object sufficiently strong and permanent. A stout turn-buckle to set up and keep these guys tense, is desirable.
OUTFIT

iron

J!UJJ,DJNG lllGI! t;IGNAI.H-HOl'ES, JILOCKS, JCTC.

1 small portable winch, with pa1cl. '4 large double blocks, swivel hooks, with falls three-fourths inch diameter and GOO feet long.

i~

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

413

1 leading (snatch) block, swivel hook. 4 large single blocks, swivel books (for hoistiug siugle sticks), with falls three-fourths inch diameter aud 160 feet long. 4 medium-size double bloeks (for watch tackles); falls can be improvised from: any spare guys. 4 small single blocks (for sending up braces, etc.), falls of one-half inch rope 160 feet long. 18 guy ropes, three-fourths inch diameter, 125 feet long. 1 guy rope, 1 inch diameter, 125 feet loug. · 4 bridle ropes, 1! inches diameter, 50 feet long. 8 rope straps, a8sorted lengths and sizes. Sundry odds and ends of rope, different sizes, for lashings, etc. In building· the upper part of a 150-foot signal, some of these ropes will not be long enough if used singly, but it is better to bend on extra pieces to make up the length rather than to carry in the outfit special ropes, whose weight makes it inconvenient to handle them readi~y.
TOOLS, KTC. 1 HKQUilrnD.

In addition to the ordinary carpenter's tools that can be carried in a tool chest small enough to be easily handled, there should be 2 good axes for framing work and 1 rough ax for chopping roots under ground, 2 spades or shovels, 2 mattocks, 1 post-hole digger (for setting guy posts), and 1 medium-size crowbar. A crosscut saw, with adjustable handles, is convenient where much timber is to be felled. 'rhere should be a plentiful supply of bits or angers oJ tlw different sizes, and at least 2 braces and monkey wrenches and :3 heavy hammers. 'l'here should always be carried to the ground a few more bolts and other supply of hardware than the plan absolutely calls for, and the saws and edge tools should always be kept in good condition for work. There are few localities where tim!Jer is abundant where there is not a sawmill of some kind within a convenient distance, though it may not always be possible to get out the longer and heavier sticks; or it may be that a signal is to be built at a point where the hauling from· the mill would be too much of an expense. In such cas~ the legs and heavier pieces may with advantage be hewn near the ground. The trees felled for this purpose should be large enough to allow the finished piel!es to be all heart, with no large knots, aud'free from wind shakes or twist, aud the timber should be·iuspected before being worked up. If practicable, the pieces should remain long enough to be thoroughly seasoned, but if necessary to build of partially seasoned timber, the building should succeed the framing as soon as possible, as a short time iu the hot sun would twist the pieces so that it would be impossible to closely follow the framing in the building. up. The time required for building such signals and their cost will vary under different circumstances. 'l'he cases cited below nre from a season's .work in Indiana in 1888. 'fbe lumber used was white pine a~d was

414

U. S. COAST AND GJWDETIC SURVEY.

brought from Chicago.· The cost on the ground of the material used was something more than 50 per cent of the whole cost, and the dis· tance it had to be hauled from the nearest railroad station' averaged 12 or 14 miles. Four skilled workmen were employed on monthly wages, and day laborers were hired as required.
II eight of signal.

j Working days.

I Cost of signal.

I

"Green," 152 feet "Stout," 135 feet *"Tripp," 100 feet "Culbertson," 116 feet ""i{eizin," 116 feet "Weed Patch," 75 feet

18 14 6
II II

6

$705·21 583·45 293·74 487'58 488·42 274·63

------···---·
· "Tripp" signal wnH only I mile from rnilronu station.

LETTER FROM GERSHOM BRADFORD, ASSISTANT.

UNI'.l'ED ST.A.'.l'ES COAST .AND GEODETIC SUiiVEY,

Washington, JJ. C., January 27, 1894. In reply to your letter of January, 1894, inviting me to present my views in writing 011 auy of the subjects umler discussion by your Con· ·fereuce, I would offer a few suggestions relating to triangulation, in which, however, my experience has not been extensive, nor have I been connected with its higher branches. 1. To promote uniformity iu the methods of making and recording observations and in field computations, a book of instructions of convenient size should be printed and supplied to each member of the normal force and to officers of tlie Navy detailed to Coast Survey work, and these instructions should cover all important points and be expressed in plain and precise language, not too technical, and should include all the methods of oflice computations which are likely to be of · use in the field. 2. It is diflicult to estimate too highly the value of a single pointing upon every signal in sight from a station under very favorable conditions, such as are likely to occur at least once during the occupation of a station, and I think the most favorable to be when the atmosphere is clear but the sky wholly overcast. When a repeating instrument is used such a sweep of the horizon should never be neglected, and should, if pract~cable, precede the measurement of each separate ~ngle. 3. In much of the miuor work, where the sides are very short, two pointings, each direct an<l reverse, the second for verification, 1rnuld be amply sufficient for precision and much time would be saved, the value of such work depe11di11g much more upon the arrangement of tlie triaugleR so as to i11sure tho beist practicable conditions than. upon. the

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

415

number of repetitious, for oue measurement under good circumstances may be worth many under less favorable ones, the latter only tending to discredit the former. 4. Emphasis should be laid upon the necessity of precision in centering signals and instrument a111l in referring an eccentric station to center. It is not unusual that an observer whose work has been of a less precise character fails to appreciate the importance of such precision. 5. I doubt whether a telescope should ever be lifted from its wyes for reversal, for the delicacy of manipulation req nired is so great that there is always a possibility of a slight unnoticed displacement of the instrumen_t introducing an error difficult to trace to its true cause. If the telescope be of suitable length, the frame supporting- it may be made high enough to allow it to make a complete revolution, but if not the point of bearing may be so altered that the forward or after e11d will swing clear below, the poise being equalized by weiglttiug the short. end.

LETTER FROM SPENCER C. McCORKLE, ASSISTANT.
lJNI'J'ED STA'.l'BS COAS'l' AND 0-EODETIO SUitVJ<~Y,

Wasliinr1ton, D. G., Ja.nuary :n, 1894.· received this moming your very courteous circular, aud owing to my interest in the labor of the Geodetic Conference I take plea.sure in replying at once. I lmve very decided opinions n1)on most of the questions propounded in the "scope of deliberations," and give my views for what they may be worth and very briefly.
.I
lt~tve

1. BASE-LINE ::0.!EA8UHE:MENT.

I prefer "a few bases measured with a high degree of accuracy" as. best ada11ted, in my opinion, to the re<pliremcnts of an extl\IHled survey.
2. TRIANGULATION.

The old ·definitions, "primary," ''secondary," and" tertiary," are, to my mind, al.J that is 11ecessary, and easily understood. 3. I prefer a G or 8 inch theodolite for secondary and tertiary t.riaugulation for obvious reasons. 'fwelve observations are suflicient, if well taken, for secondary, and six. for tertiary. 4. Reconnaissance a11d signal building depends upon tlw character of the country for the first. and tlw facility of obtaining material in the second.
5. CONSI_DER
Ml~'rHODS

OF OBSERVING.

This depei1ds very much on thn charactPr of the instruments. After the necessary 111easm·eme11ts of augles, the most important. thing is tlte marking· of the station, which should he 1lone with the greatest care.

416

U.S. COAST AND

~EODETIC

SURVEY.

"'Would it not be well for the Conference to select from tho various methods <me that could be generally followed by every Assistant an,d bring out a degree of uniformity very much to be desired Y Of course there are cases where the ob::;erver must decide.
6. PARTY
ORGANIZATIO~,

ETC.

I have successfully carried on a secondary triangulation when living on shore with one foreman and 011c hau<l. \Vhen living on a vessel have carried on triangulation and topography with one assistant, 011e mate, arnl six hands.
RECORDS.

As soon as the field ,eomputations nre made, they, with the recorcls, should be transmitted to the ofiice.\ If necessary to retain a record of angles, a second copy should be made and kept. I think every As:.;istant desires that his field computations should have the highest clegree of accuracy compatible with the circumstances. The final reduction should only be made at tile oHice.

LETTER FROM F. D. GRANGER, ASSISTANT. ;39 WBS'l' 'rwENTY·SIX'I'II STREET,

New York, February 2, 1894. Jn response to your circular letter of .January, 18!)4, tho following remarks, embodying my views on a few of tho topics suggested for <li::;cussion by the Superintendent in his opening address to the Confereuce, are herewith respectfully submitted. For primary triangulation, where a high degl'ee of accuracy is demanded, I reg·al'd the direction theodolite, read by means of three micrometer microscopes, as the best that can he used, and the wellknowu method of obsel'ving generally employed in the Sur·vey by positions aiul series, telescope direct and reversed, as good as has been devised. Certainly the results obtained would seem to warrant this assumptiou. Although l have but little to say upon the question of the relation of the number of observations to the degree of accuracy demanded' by the character of the wol'k, with the object of deciding if any material reduction can be made in the number of observations now taken, espe. cially at a primary station, I will venture the following remarks as bearing 011 the subject: In a scheme of triangles whose sides average, say, 20 miles in length, to give the same number of measures as woul<l be necessary in a scheme whose triangle sides exceed :iO mileA, i-npposing tlle same class of instrument to be employed, W<?ulcl seem to he an 111111ecessary mul, to a certhin extent, a m;ele&i labor. .N c-.·el'thcless it is a. very diflicult question to

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

417

draw the line definitely as to t11e best number of observations that should be taken. There aro so many <:onsiderations to be noteu in this connection; among which tho general character of tho country enters so largely, that I think the observer should be governed in a great measure by bis own judgment. On the other hand, it might be well to have the instruments classified, their accuracy of graduation, etc., being known and recorded as suitable for work of this or that character, and further showing, if a direction instrument, in how many positions of the azimuth circle it would bo well to employ it; if a repeating theodolite, how many repetitions of individual angles would be desirable. Iuformation of this nature would be very useful, but should not iufiuence the observer to the extent of entire disreg·ard of his own judgment. For secondary and tertiary triangulation the repeating· theodolite has been, I believe, almost exclm;ive~y used in the Survey, and tho good results obtained would seem to warrant its continued employment for that purpose. As to tho best number of observations to be faken at a secondary or tertiary station, the same remarks I have made with reference to primary work are applicable.
SIGNAL BUILDING.

This subject has received considerabio attention in the Survey, and I Jiave but a few comments to mako. I think, as a rule, the clas8 of signals termed observing tripods and i;caffolds when employed for elevating the theodolite are not given sufficiont stability-that is to say, are built of too light material and are insufficiently anchored and stayed; all of which give rise to variable eccentricity under the action of wind and weather. Au~l in this connection I might add, I believe, other things being e11ual, that eccentricity of signal is tho gTeatef!t source of error in a tl'iaugulation where wooden structure!:\ are employed.
D.A.Y .A.:'W NlGll'.I.' HIGN.A.L8.

Experiments for determining the relative precision of day aud night observatious, as is well known, were made at Sugar Loaf Mountain, Maryla.11d, in the summer and autumn of 1879, by tho late Assist;wt C. 0. Boutelle, whose iuterm;tiug report forms an appendix to the Annual Heport of the Survey for the year 1880. I refer to that report, as it was my g·ood fortune to be attached to 1\lr. Boutelle's party during the greater part of his occupancy of Sugar Loaf 1\fountain. While assisting 1\Ir. Boutelle in his experiments I was struck with the much greater distinctness and steadiness of the night signals as compared with those of the day and with the greater accuracy of the observations . .A.nd the following winter, while carrying a small scheme of triangulation up the Mississivpi River in the viciuit.y of Plaquemine and Baton Rouge, I tried, at the suggestio1i of Superintendent Patterson1 thQ
S. Ex. 19, J>t. 2-27

418

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

experiment of observing on lights at night. Much to my disappointment, howev(·r, the results were so very unsatisfactory I soon abandoned the attempt to continue the night work. 'rhe mist"eadiness of the lights was doubtless due ill a great measure to, tho 11eamess of the line of sight to the surface, a11d the imperfect results to unsteadiness and refraction. 'rho measures at night differed several :;~conds of arc from tlw day measures. While those experiments were limited to a fow nights only, and hence c:m not have much. weight, yet they would seem to show that under certain conditions night observations are less accurate thm\ those by day. 'l'he average closing error in this small work was under 2 Hecou<ls, a.Jl(l I attribute these satisfactory results principally to the form of day signals employed. They wme exclusively of the observing tripod and scaffold type, from 12 to 16 feet in height, built after plaus devised, I believe, by Assistant F. Walley Perkins. The signal poles were of gas pipe to iuches in diameter, of 17 feet lengths, fitted to be easily removed from the tripod for mounting· the theodolite,. which was readily and quickly centered over the pole aperture in the cap block, leaving no chanee for eecentricity of position. A dozen poles of this kind did service for many miles of river work by shifting them as occasion demanded. 'This form of sig·nal I found to he superior to ·a·nything I J1ad hitherto employed on small work. · · With regard to what should be done at' a triangulation station besides the necessary measurements of (horizontal) angles, I think tha.t at a primary station vertical measures (double zenith distances and micrometric differences) on nJl the surrounding sig11als and principal prominent objects should always be taken, no matter how unsatisfactory the results may appear to be; aud in connection with sueli ouservations readings of the barometer anu hygrornet<;r and 11otes on tlw direction and force of the wino, etc., should he ma<le. I also thi11k that special observations for magnetic declination should be taken when possible. In com·lm;ion, I woulu say that as the cost of a triangulation, especially of a primary triangulation, warra11ts mnumal care in marking the stations, not only to insure their preservation for a great length of time, hut also to make tbeir identification easy, i think for the latter purpose surface marks of reference of an enduring character should always be employed; and accompanying the description of each station a car~ fully made sketch, or, better, a plane.table survey of the immediate cmrroundings. In Kansas, where rocky Roil is seldom encountered, most of the star · tions have been marked as follows: A stone bottle or jug filled with ashes iR set 3 01· more feet under the surface of the ground, then a layer of several ·inches of earth; over this a stone bowl-shaped crock with small drill hole in bottom is placed bottom np; again a layer of several inches of P:irth, n,nd above this, and projecting an inch or two above the surface, u. marble post feet long

lz

2z

2z

REPORT .FOR 1898-PART JI.

419

by6to8inches square, having its top surface marked with two V-shaped grooves cut at right angles and the letters U.S. C. S. In the meridiau of the station, at equal distances north and south, is R~t a hard limestone or sandstone post 2~ feet long by 5 inches square, marked on top with a single diagonal groove terminating in an arrowhead pointing toward the center of station. 8urronnding the marble post a circular trench of from 6 to 10 foet in diameter, 8 inches wide by from 1 to 2 feet deep, is ·dug alHl partly filled with coal a.11d covered with earth. The surface marks arc then referred to all prominent natural or artificial objects in the immediate vieiuity, arnl, when possible, to tltc section corners by angular and linear mea§uremen ts.

ERRORS OF GRADUATION IN A THREE-MICROMETER MICROSCOPE POSITION THEODOLITE, AND A METHOD FOR ELI MINA TING THEM IN THE MEASUREMENT OF HORIZONTAL ANGLES.
[A roport
h~·

Enwrn SMITH, .AReletnnt.. ]

In a recent examination of the two new 30° 111 position theodolites, Nos. 145 and 14fi, constructed at the Coast and Geodetic Survey Office, it has been shown that the i.;pacing errors of the gra<lnation are very small, and it has heeu statell that in this respect the instruments muf>t be considered nearly perfect. In this examination repeated measures of 72 spaces, symmetrically disposed about the circle, were made. In respect to So. H5, the greatest deviation of any one:\ space from the mean of all the spaces measured is 0"·6 and the average deviation only 0"·2. The measures of spaces of No. 146 have· not beeu given~ as they are considered unreliable, owing to a 1lefoct of tlle circle, it being thin and having a warped surface. A new circle for this instrument is in course of co11structio11 all(l will he as nearly as possible like the one on No. 14;), ·Possibly the greatest n,ccideutal errors of gra1luation are to be found in the spacing, but it must be admitted that with the showing made with tl1eodolite No. 145 such errors will he practically eliminated by readings on a much less number of spaces than the uumbet·,examined. In what have long been considered the best graduated circles, spaciug errors of 2 11 · and eV.en greater have been fouml. lf it is admitted that circles no"r.in use have spacing errors so great as 3" from the mean of all the spaces, such errors woul<l still be practical1y eliminated by readings on a comparatively small number of spaces. It certainly seeme that in the mean rea<ling on fiO symmetrical spaces on any such circle the residual error can not bo gTeater than 0"·0.'i, and in the better circles the error in the mean of 12 or lti sp:wcs will probably be no greater. By far the most i111portaut errorR of graduation which affect the measurement of angle~ or directiont-i (tro of n periodic nature. lly tile use of

420

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

a number of equidistant mieroscopes certain of such errors are eliminated in the mean of, the micro::icope readings. lu Volume ll, page 5~~, of Chauvenet's Astronomy, it is shown that "the terms of a periodic series not eliminated by taking the mean of q equidistant microscopes are those only which involve the multiples of q z," z being the reading of the circle. It is there also i-;hown that the mean of 3 microscopes requires a correction of the form 1t sin (:> Z - U)-u' sin (Ii Z - U 1) - etc., in which u u' and U U' are constants. 'l'hese constants may be determined and the mean reading of the microscopes on any part of the circle thereby corrected. The special determination of these constauts'for all the theodolites of the Coast and Geodetiu Survey would be a useless labor, as the measurement of angles in the field may be so made on symmetrical parts of the circles as to both eliminate snch error and at the same time determine these constants. The importa11t question is, What is the number of symmetrical parts of the circle upon which angles 8lwuld be measured to be certain that all classes of errors of graduation may be eliminated or reduced to 8i> 1m1all a quantity as to be neglected? In the examination of the new theodolites above referred to, angle8 were measured in groups of 4 symmetrical positions, and the agreement of the means of these groups shows that the graduation errors are practically eliminated in each group. The 4 measures of each group involve 12 symmetrfoal arcs of the drch~ 30° apart and readings on 24 spaces of the graduation. If ·! positions are determined by divitling half the distance. between the microscopes and observing the angles with microscope A set at reading of each position with telescope direct, and at 180° from each position with telescope reverse1l, ea.ch angle will involve 24- symmetrical arcs of the circle rn° apart and readings 011 48 spaces of the gmduation. Inasmuch as 8 measures (4 <lirect a11d 4 reverRed) will not be suflicient for the higher class of triangulation, 8 positions may be taken upon the same principle, and each angle will tlle11 l>e measured rn times (8 dire~t and 8 reversed), involving· ·l.S sy1mnetrical arcs of the circle 7°·5 apart and readings upon !Hi spaces of the graduation. vVith such a number of readings and measures, if errors of graduation are not practically eliminated the circle must be very poor indeed. It appears desirable to test this method in the lield, as it, would at once give the means of investigating the errors of gradnation. The 8 positions of this method could be divided into 2 groups of 4 symmetrical positions, each group involving 24 symmetrical arcs of the circle in the measurement of each angle. A comparison of the means of these groups would. give the 1lesired informa.tiou as to the value of the circles, and the constants could be computed if deemed necessary. In the method of observation generally followed on the ·Coast and Geodetic Surw~y the mean of 2 measures, 1 in the direct an<l 1 in the reversed l)O:Sitious of t,!ie tcles1;opes. ;m<l mieroscopes, i:.; called :~ S(wies, i'h~

REPORT FOR 1893-PART IT.

421

report of the Triangulation Committee states 31 series for primary and one-half or two-thirds that number for seco11dary triangulation. By the method of positio11s above proposed 2 or 3 series in each position will give the necessary number for i-;ecoudary triangulation a11d 4 series for primary; or for the latter,~ series in each of Hi positions might be taken, involving 9u symmetrical arcs 30.75 apart in the measurement of each angle. 'l'he accompanying diagram illustrates the positions. H.espectfully submitted to the Geodetic Co11forc11~c, United States Coast aud Geodetic Survey, Fel>ruary 27, 18!)4.

~~ "~
--....

\\\\\I
~·

I I

I
I

I I I I I I

I I I

I I I
I
I

I
180

I
I

I
I /

I

/
I

I
I

I
I

I

,
/
/

t
I I

,
/

/

,
4.~

/ /

I

" "' "

/

0.-.

....

' '

.... ....

' '
J3.
(·

....
....

-

....o

0

"'' .... ................
'
........ ... ...

'
\

''

0

\
I

\

\ \
\

\ \
I
\

\

\
\

'' '' '' ' ' \. '

'

0

I

I
c

\
I I

I

I

\

I

\

\

\

'

Diay1"arn showinf/ initial 1·cacli1198 of 1nior0Bco110 ..:L 01· the index fol" 4, 8, 01· 11; positions.
[Full Unua Hhow initial re:ulin~s of 1.ho :l microscopu8 iu tho <liroct. 11ositio11K, :uul 1lott.otl Hnos tho initiul rmuliugs in rovorli1:<l ]>(Jttitiorn:1.]

4 positious.-Sot microscopo or irulox direct at 0°, 15°, 30°, antl ·15°. 8 positlons.-Sot microscope or iutlox direct ut oc, 71", 15·', 22~ 0 , 30°, 37~ 0 , .1r;c, nucl 52t0 · 16 poaitious.-Set microRCOJ·CJ or indox direct nt 0°, 3~0 , 71°, 11!0 , 15°,)s~o, 22~ 0 , 2G!o, 300 1 33f', 8H 0 , 41!'\ 45°, 48~ 0 , 52~'\ autl 5G!c.

422

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
MEMORANDUM BY W. C. HODGKINS, ASSISTANT.

CimTArn' APl'J.IANCES Us1m Dr THI·: PRECISJ~ LIWEL!NG
GIWIJETIC JANUAHY, 8UitVI·:Y, WITH
So~m

SUGGESTION'S 01'

SUBMITTED TO Tim G1w1mnc CONl"EHENCl~

\VOim OF THE· COAST AND b11·1tOVIm1·:NTS i IN Sm:!SION AT \VASlllN'uTON, 1'. c.,
l'OSSIBU:

189·1.

vV ASIUNG\l.'ON, Ja1tu<try 81, 18.94.

One of the most striking features of many lines of so-called "precise levels" is the singular tendeucy to an accmnulation of error;;, as a result of which two practically simultaneous lines frequently show a grndu· ally increasing divergence from each other. I would. suggest tliat, in my opinion, the greater part of the difiicuJty may be sought in the rods used in the work. The leveling instrument now in use in the Coast and Geodetic Survey seems reasonably satisfactory both in theory and in workmanship. I am disposed to think that in the natural reaction from the excessive weight of some instrume!1ts formerly in use we have gone mther too far in the direction of lightness and small size. It is possible also that the instrument might be improved by somewhat increasing the optical power Of the telescope. It might also be desirable to. investigate the question whether our means of determining the angle ·between the target and the horizon are i;ufliciently refined, bearing iu mind the fact that an error of one secoud of arc, represented by about one-third of a uivision Of the head of the micrometer screw, would produce an error in height of nearly half a millimetre in a distance of 100 111 · Without further reference to the above, I turn to the rods now in use, which seem to be objectionable in several respects.
1. TllE FOOT 01" TIIE HOD AND THE FOUTPLATES Olt
'l'UH~ING

POINTS.

Without commenting on tbe defects of the forms now in use, many of which are obvious, I submit a sketch of an improved. form which seems to me to be more desirable. In this sectional view A is the rod, B the projecting metal foot, the lower surface of which is tt plane perpendic· ular to the axis of the rod and is the zero or initial plane of the rod; 0 is a protective cap, consii;tiug of a cylindrical brass box made to screw upon the foot of the rod and provided with i1 cylindrical opening at the center to permit the foot of the rod to be reached; Dis a gasket or ring of any suitable packing to close the space within the cap without metallic contact with the foot of tlrn rod; Eis the spherical metallic head of the footplate or foot stub, the latter being preferable wheil it can be used. The walls of the tube in the cap prevent lateral motion of the rod, and the metal sphere upon which the rod rests insures a support in the axis of the rod and prevents any possibility of a binding between the rod and its support, even when the latter is much more out of the ver· tical than woulu ever occur in practice, as sho,vn in the sketch. The

No. 19

Section of

Cont£J..Cl ?IJ.,

c

Benches

I I I I

S'ectiori, ot 'Rod al its tool

v

Sketch of' Fuol st.ub

Secti..011

or Foot. st~J,
--·--_J

REPORT FOR 1893-PA.RT II.

423

foot stub, pushed firmly into the ground, should furnish a more stal>le support than the plate iu many kinds of ground. When the rod is to be held upou a bench mark, tho protecting cap may be r~moved or a small cylindrical plug, made to fit tho central opening and of known Iengtil, may !Je used for the purpose of making tile contact.
2. TI-m MATEHIAJ, OF 'l'llE ROD AND I'l'8 GHADUATION.

While there are some valid objections to tbn use of wood for the standard of length in a leveling rod, I think that most of them may be eliminated by proper arrangements, and that rods so arranged shoulll produce results far more reliable than any at prese11t obtained. I tliiuk the use of a target o"Qjectionable, but if it !Jc thought desirable to retain it provision should be made to obviate the mechanical defects by which the target may be thrown out of position when clamped. The. graduation of the rotl should also be directly under the target, and tile vernier should l>e on the michlle liue of its face. The divisions of the rod from which the target reading is taken should be lines cut ou the faces of pieces of brass firmly set in tJ1e wood, avoiding tho uncertainty of a line cut m wood. This of course does not apply to the extension of these liues for the purposes of telescopic reading. 'rhe wood of which the rod is made should be carefully protected against moisture l>y the most approved methods and should l>e nearly invariable. A metallic standard, firmly united with the foot cylinder, should, however, be inclosed in the rod for purposes of comparison from day to day. This standard should be free to expand all(l couttact, l>eiug fastened only at its lower end. Suita\)le arrangements for obtai1iing its temperature and for compariug its upper end with the surface graduation of the rod being provided, comparisons maue under favorable conditions, "before and afte'r the WOl'k of the day, should a.tford a very precise check on the condition of the rod. I had intended to write more fully this. point, but iu recent convcrsatiou with a member of the Conference I learned that a rod constructed 011 tl1is principle bas already been used in !<'ranee.

on

3. ::\lE'fHODS OF

wom-:.

I think that in every party engaged in precise levels there should be four rodmen, so that a double simultaneous line may be run without waiting for the rodmen to move ·between the back sights and the fore sights. I think, also, that the length of sights should be limited so as not to often exceed mom, aucl that great care should be usecl in equalizing fore sights with back sights. While I am fully aware that this import.ant subject is very inadequately treated in the foregoing paper, necessarily prepared in some haste, I submit it to the consideration of the Conference in tho hope that it may not be without some value in eliciting the opinions of those best qualified to decide these questions.

424

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
LETTER FROM W. IRVING VINAL, ASSISTAN'l'. UNI'.l.'ED ST.A.'l'ES CoAS'.1' .AND GEODETIC SUIWEY,

W ashinr1ton 1 J>. O., Pebruury p, 1894. In acknowledging the receipt of your letter of ,Jauuary, 18H4, inviting me to expl'css my views upon any of the sul~jects under discussion by the Geodetic Conference, I desire to call attention to the markings of stations ill the secondary and minor triangulation. Along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts the topographer or hydrographer is frequeutly unable to recover these positions, as the RiteH have been insecurely marked or imperfectly described. It is not always possible to guard these positions by underground marks, and the surface monuments, either of iron or stone, are oftei1 disturbed and 80metimes a11propriated by boatmen and others. I would suggest, in general, that in addition to the three or four reference marks usua1ly placed near the stone or post nrnrking the center of station other marks be Het within a few hundred foet of the signal, where they will he least liable to disturbance. A good sketch o.f: the topography within a radius of ;JOO or 400111 of the station, with tiie distances an<l azimuths of the reference marks, together with a cfoar description of tho locality, should ordinarily secure the positiori' from t.J1e absolute Joss which has now too often to be incnrred.

LETTER FROM E. H. FOWLER, DRAFTSMAN.
UNI'l'ED ST.A.TES UOAS'l' .A.ND GEODETIC SUHVl~Y,

Washington, J). V., ,foly 11, 18.94. Permit me to call your attention to a subject which causes much annoyance and loss of time both ju tbe office and with tlie field i>arties of the United States Coast a11d Geodetic Survey: The geographical positions given in the office registers jnclude nearly everything from tl.te beginning of the Survey up to the present time, . yet many of these positions have long since been lost or are of no fnrther use; but the draftsman has no way to distinguish between the good and bad, and is therefore obliged to plot hundreds of points, with much loss of time, which only cause great annoyance to the field officer in a fruitless search for them, as well as mutilating the sheet. It is not my object to suggest what methods should he employed to designate the useless geographical positions in the office registers, but would respectfully refer the subject to the J.10norable member8 of the Geodetic Couference.

APPENDIX No. 10-1892.

ON THE PREPAHATION AND ARRANGEMENT OF 'l'JIE EXllIBIT 01·' THE UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY AT THE WORLD'S COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION. Rreport hy D. B. \VAINWIUGH'I', AMRistaut. Submitted for pnhlicat.ion l\tny 1-l,·1894.

I have the honor to report that, in accordance with the instructions of the Superintendent, dated l'lfarch 11, IS!l~, I took charge of the preparation of the exhibit of the Ooai:;t and Geodetic Survey for the W or Id's Columbian Exposition. Shortly after the above date l commenced to familiarize myself with what had been done at previous expositions in which the Survey participated; so as to be informed what arrangements 'Vere necessary in regard to the allotment and expenditures of money, iioor space, transportation, installation, and the numerous other details which require the attention of an exhibitor long before the opening. There was, however, very scanty material for this purpose to be obtained in tbe shape of reports, and I had to rely principally for information on the memory of those who had been connected in some capacity with our exhibits at other expositions. The character and scope of the exhibit had been considered some time previous by a committee consisting of the Assistant in charge of the office, the hydrographic ins1)ector, and the chiefs of the several divisions iu the office. Their report, which was submitted October 15, 1891, was referred to me for my guidance. It gave in detail a list of the instruments it was desirable to furnish, indicated what charts, reports, appendixes, and other publications of the Survey should be displayed, and proposed that a series of pamphlets illustrating the methods aud operations of the Survey be written and printed for distribution. If practicable, it was suggested to send to Ohicago one of our steamers, on which all the varieties of bydrographic work could be most fitly represented, espe· cially that part pertaining to deep sea sounding'.
426

426

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

'fhe committee ad vised a full display of weights and measures, both customary and metric, and, as a special feature for this group, a 100-foot bench standard. Nearly all of the foregoing material could be furnished by the office. In addition it was recommended to construct a model of a segment of tl1e. earth on a scale of 1-1 000 000, showing· the United States and Alaska, and indicating on its surface the geodetic work of the Survey. Also to furnish three globes of a large size, oh two of which were to be represented in a graphic manner the direction and extent of the dctlection of the magnetic needle, and on the other the historical and modern geod~tic arcs completell and proposed at the present time. Also two relief plaster models-one to form part of a series to illustrate topographic met.hods of surveying; the other, hydrographic methods of surveying. This programme, as outliued by the committee, was in the main closely adhered to. .A.11 the instruments mentioned in their list could not be taken, either because of their being wanted in the field or for lack of space to properly mount them. Instead ol' the pamphlets recommended, leaflets were sub8tituted as more likely to meet the dema11ds of the grer.test number of visitors. It was considered desirable to ·direct the attention more fully than had been done hitLerto to the methods of the Survey in obtaining 1lata for the prediction of tides and from which our tide tables are compiled. For this purpose the tidal model was constructed. In order to show the current metres in operation, a large trough was also provided. From the comme11celllent of the preparations to their close I reported to the Superintemlcut almost daily in order to keep him informed as to the diflieulties encountered in carrying out the scheme and the progress made, to receive his instructions and advice and also t-0 propose such additions and improvements as were suggested to me by a more intimate knowledge of the imbjcct. At au early stage of the prepatations it became apparent that there was not sufficient room available in the ollice buildings for the construction and setting up of the large model of the United States and Alaska, the tidal model~ and the globes. It was then decided to erect a frame building of the simplest character on the lot adjoining the carpenter shop. It was 40 feet Jong and ~O feet wide, sides 12 .feet high, with gable roof 8 foet high. The principal requirements were a substantial floor aud plenty oC light. After Mr. l·'rench, the head carpenter, had drawn a satisfactory design, specifications wern typewritten :tll(l sent to several builders. The bids received were all very much higher than had been looked for and beyond the ~mount it seemed wise to expend for this purpose. Some time was spent'in trying to have the bids reduced to a reasonable figure, but without avail.

REPORT FOR· 1893-PART II.

427

.A.t this juncture .Assistant Edwin Smith came to the rescue, and suggested sheatl1ing the sides aud roof with corrugated iron, and found a contractor who wonld undertake the floor and framework for a price within the limits of the estimate. 'fhe Pennsylvania Iron Company furnished the corrugated iron sidings and pressed-seam steel roof, and also sent a skilled laborer' to put it in place. 1'lte building was com11leted early in August, and was occupied by tlie various employees from that time up to the completion of the work, except during some of the severest weather of the w~nter, when, in spite of two i;;toves, Rit.uatml one at either end, standi11g water would
frec~e.

In the meantime, to outain a clear idea of the requirements of the
large model of the United Statel:l and Al.aska, I made one in miniature

on a scale of one-half inch to the foot, and then further to develop tlle method of construction one 011 a scale of l inch to the foot of the large model. From a 8tudy of these it was concluded to make the model in eight sections for the convenience of transportation, and to have it include very little territory outside the limits of our own possessions. The selection ·of a scale for the relief provoked a good deal of discussion. It was finally decided, however, to adopt tho natural sea.le, or, in other words, there would be no exaggeration of the heights as compared to horizontal distances. Plenty of models were already in existence which showed very plainly the c·onfiguration of the mo'imtain ranges by an increased vertical scale, aud it was thought unwise on a model of this size to dwarf all the horimntal distances and to sacrifice for pictorial effect a clear perception of the true contour of the earth's curvature. To simplify the construction of tho framework, ench of the principal ribs was placed so as to correspond with some meridian. In this way they all had the same radius of cm·\·ature, consequently were of the same pat.tern, differing merely in length. They were made of white pine seconds, lif inches thick a11ci 10 inches wide, the length of each depending on the number of degrees of fatitnde included in that part of the model. Each section had four of these longitmlinal ribs, one at either 8ide and two inter"inediate, n.11.d each section c01mnence1l and ended on some multiple of each fifth degree of longitude. Thus the rig-ht-hand edge of tl.ie 8eeo1Hl section corresponded to the rnemlian of 80° and its lefthan<l edge to the meridian of !l0°. The short .cross ribi:i were. arranged along some parallel of latitude and cut to conform to the curvature of the sphere at that parallel. Tims all on the same latitude were of the same pattern. Sixty pounds of angle irons were used for rigidly fasteniug together the different members of the sections. Experiments were made to discover the most snitahle covering for this framework. A shell of prepared pa.per similar to that forming the

428

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC

SURV~Y.

hull of the racing boats made by E. Waters & Son, of Troy, N. Y., wa~ favorably considered; lmt there were reasons in the way of its adoption, notably the difliculty in obtaining it of the desired shape and at a sufficiently low cost. Finally one-fourth-inch pine casing was used, a.n<l as it assumed very nearly the requisite curvature there was little dressing down necessary to perfect it. On this were glued in succession three thickne:-;ses of heavy cotton cloth, which was then painted with white lead until tl.ie pores were filled and a s111ooth surface obtained on whi<:l1 a draftsman could work. · While this was in progress, maps were being collectell which wonl<l furnish the natural and artificial features to be represented on the model. I did not find this an easy task_, since the scale of 1 0 0 fp;,, 0 is :m unusual one, and for many States quite a gap exists between maps of :t smaller· scale and the county maps. The method l was forced to adopt was to select those of a larger scale and lrnve them reduced by photography. Some conception of the labor this iuvolved may he realized when it is known that 275 negatives were required. 'l'hese were made by l\ir. Chapman of the photographing and electrotYI)ing branch of tbe office, and demanded a skill in their preparation only to be acquire1l after long familiarity with such work. Before this reduction was made, draftsmen first·p]otted and iuked the thousand-foot contour lines wherever the uature of the country callell for them. Blue prints were made from the neg-ativei;;, and where the lwight above sea level wa8 less titan 1 000 feet the topography was traced from them directly on the prcparc<l surface of the model. 'l'he elevated areas of the coutinent were built up by gluing to the cloth a layer of paintecl card· board twelve one-thousandths of an inch tluck for each thousand foet. These layers were cut out according to the pattern indicated by the contours on the reduced maps. '.ro further bring out the modeling of the mountain ranges and individual peaks, their eastern slopes·were shaded ·with a neutral tint. vVhen :t section had reached this stage, it was turued over to Miss Antisell, who painted the water areas and State boundaries with appropriate colors in oil. The position of the model when· exhibited was such that tiie axis of the imaginary spliereof whici.J. it might be conceived to form part waH vertical, with the North Pole upward, the southern end of Florida nearly touching the floor and the upper part of Alaska 13 feet above. This arrangement ma.de a stairway necessary to obtain a clear view of tile upper portions. Tllis was built on the floor space by a Chicago firm, before the arrival of the exhibits, from a design made by Mr. Von Erichsen. It consi8ted of a numbel' of steps and ,platforms ascending from a point opposite Florida, following the irregular outline of the model to tho highest and longest platform, opposite the Aleutian Island::;; thence it descended in a curve to the floor at the rear.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

429

There were no globes to be obtained in this country 1m in diameter. Even had this not been the case, the customary globes w.ould have proved unsatisfactory owing to the great amount of detail drawn upon them, which would have a tendency to obscure the additional lines and colors necessary to represent Assistant Schott's designs. For these reasons it was decided to construct them of plaster at the office. Each globe was composed of a. framework of light but strong semicircular wooden ribs, surrounding and fastened to a hollow brass axis. These longitudinal ribs were stayed by several series of shorter ones fastened at riglit angles. 'rhis skeleton was covered with wire gau~e; after which the plaster surface, was applied. To effect this the ends of .two wooden templets one-fourth inch wide and thick were fastened at one of the poles and then bent over the framework and tacked down at the other pole of this rude sphere, so as to inclose a lune of about 300 betwemi them. Dampened fiber was now placed in a thin layer within this space, so as to partially close the interstices of the wire gauze. A sufficient amount of plaster of paris was then mixed, and when it had arrived at a mush-like consistency was rapi1lly applied over the fiber. Some portions would force their way through the gauze and serve to lock the casting to the frame. After the plaster was set, nud while it was still in a soft condition, tho opportunity was taken to parn down tho excess, the templets serving as guides to show where to cut away. After this was completed a templet from one side of the cast was carefully removed and secured again at the proper distance, so as to form a new space for the next casting. In this way, section by section, the frame received a complete coating of plaster. Then by using a carefully made brass templet for reference the rough smfaee was turned down to the proper dimensions. When the plaster was thoroughly dry, it was sized with a thin solution of glue, and afterwards given a coat of white lead and japan varnish. 'l'he globe was now given to a draftsman, who dre:w the meridians and parallels, outlined the continents, and indicated the boundaries of the different colors. Tho artist, 1\liss Autisell, then tinted the land areas 11 neutral color on all three globes, and on the isogonic globe the areas of western declination a buff color and eastem declination a blue. On the isoclinic globe the areas of northern dip were tinted buff and the southern dip blue. Lastly, a draftsman drew the lines iudicating the amount aucl directiol\.. of the magnetic deflection, the historical and motlern geodetic arcs, and the gravity stations on the appropriate globes. The stands were made from designs furnished by Mr. E.G. Fischer, chief instrument maker, and attractcll attention on account of the in~enuity disphiyed, all the fram~worl\ which. ordiuarily su1-rou11ds {l.

430

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

globe of thi,; sir.e being: avoided and the view of the Rurface presented free of obstruction. A staud consists of a steel shaft fitting the axis of the globe, having four spokes above and below for the purpose of revolving it. 'rhe lower end was mounted 011 bl1ll bearings fitting :L eastiug with gas-pipe feet. The axiR was iuelined to represent the position of the eartl1 iu relation to the plane of the ecliptic. The form in which the tidal model was exhibite<l is the outgrowth of various attempts to display in a comprehensive mauner the methods pursued by the Survey in procuring the data on which are based o\U' published ti<le tables. It consisted of a, stout wornlen box with a sloping lJottom, the greater part of which was liued with lead so as to form a water-tight tank. At one end was modeled in miniature a Rtrip of Randy beach and a number of Rand dunes. At one extremity of this little piece of coast line was placed a diminutiYc light-house and keeper's dwelling, and at the other a fish house and wharf. That part of tl10 tank intended to represent the se;1 bottom was modeled to imitate the :1p1)earance of shoals arid sandbars. Along the side of the tank opposite the st\'and, and where the water was deepest, were placed the mi11iature, self-recording tide gauge a.nd the miniature tide indicator, both designed by Assistaut E. E. Haskell. This indicator was the counterpart of one located at The Narrows, New York, which is of sufficient sir.e for those aboard passing vessels to read on its dial the height of the tide ;L!Jove or below mean'low water, and ah;o, by a device connected with thl~ float, learn whether the thfo is rising or falling. It was the intention to lmvc the characteristic tides of ::N"ew York and San Francisco reproduced on a reduced scale, recurring at six-minute i11tervals. With this in view, Assist.ant Haskell designe<l two balanced valves, OllO for supply aud one for discharge, controllml by two cam disks, the .latter being run by clockwork. This control was effected by causing ;1 small roller attachecl to the en1l of each piston rotl to travel in the grooves of tlw disks, tio that the valve.'! were opened and closed in proper sequence to raise and lower J.he water in the tank the necessary amount to produce the tidal curve. In order to lrnvn this mechanism perform satisfactorily, it was indispensable to have a constant water pressure. Unfortnnately, after the exhibit was installed~ the pressure was found to vary to sueh an extent that it was impossible to keep the apparatus in adjustment for any length of time, and a discharging siphon had. to be substituted: This reduced the representation to a much simpler form, the ta~k being filled and emptied to the same 'extent each time, without any attempt. to simulate the special features of tl1e tidal curve. Assistant Ogden selected a series of cxhibiti;i to show the various steps taken in' the iwoductiou of a finished chart from the :field sheets.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART JI.

431

. This series in part contained the original topographic and hydrograph1c sheets, the drawings fl'tlm the same for engraving .and lithographing, reductions by photography, lithographic stones on which these had been transferred~ the engraved copper plate, a basso and alto partly separated, a basso and alto separated, and, finally, tlie finished chart. To present more distinctly tlie relation between a published chart and the region represented, and to illnstmte more clearly the meaning of the various symbols and arbitrary signs used on a chart, two plaster composition relief models were ordered of l\fr. E. E. Howell. One is modeled directly from Chart No. 306 and em lmlCes a portion of Mount Desert Island and Frenchmans Hay, Maine. The diversified character of this region, containing wooded mountains, bare cliffs, Jakes, islands, and seacoast, makes it an especially fit snQject for the purpose. The other model was taken from a portion of Chart No. 5487-Carmel Bay, California, vertical and horizontal scale 1-12 000. In this vicinity is found one of those submarine valleys, peculiar to the Pacific coast, whose deep trough and precipitous slopes penetrate the continental plateau to within a short distance of the coast line. This feature affords an excellent opportunity for the explanatio11 of the technical details of a hydrogrnphie chart. As a further illustration of onr topographical work, a model was made of Rock Creek Park and vicinity. Tllis area is included in the large scale 1mrvey (1-4 800) made hy tl1e officers of the Coast iincl Geodetic Survey for the Commissioners of the District of Columbia. For precision of methods a111l elaboration of details the treatment of this region is unequaled by any other of like extent in this country. Lithographic reproductions in colors of the original sheets were made 011 cardboard; and as the adopted scales for horizontal and vertical distances were the same, its thickness (thirteen one-hundredths of an inch) represented u foet. Tlw usual method was pursued in building up the model. _One of the prints, with all that area cnt away below the .lowest contour, was glnecl upon another print left entire, the cutting being done with a sharp-pointecl knif~and the cut being made so as to divide the contour line in half. Another print was then taken, and all the area below the next higher contour cut away before being glued down. In this·way successive layers were superimposed, one upon· the other, until the piece) containing the last or highest contour was }rnt in place, when the resulting cardboarcl block appeared as a faithful COllY in miniature of the country coverml by the print. A numbel' of blocks were constructed in this manner, m11l then carefully fittc<l t.ogethe1· to form the complete model. The edge of each layer was colored brown in order to show grapbically the relation between the contours of a topographical map ~ud the vcrticall1eights.

432

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Fourteen leatlets were prepared and printed to give an account iu iL popular form of the organization, operations, ·and methods of tl..te Survey. They were made of a convenient size for carrying in the coat pocket. Each consisted of four pages O~ by 4:f- inches, and contained about 1 300 words. The following are.the titles a,nd authors; "The Coast and Geodetic Survey," condensed from an article by Dr. T. C. Mendenhall. "Time, latitude; and longitude," C. 11. Sinclair. ''Base apparatus," U.S. vVoodward. "Triangulation and reconnaissance," \V. C. HodgkiuH. "Gravity," E. D. Preston. ''Topography," H. L. 'Vhitiug. ''Hypsometry," Andrew Braid. "Hydrography," S. M. Ackley. "Tides and currents," A. S. Cl..tristie and E. B. Haskell. "Description of tlie Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Blake," C. E. Vreeland. "Magnetics," C. A. Schott. "Chart publications," H. G. Ogden. "Weights auJ measures," 0. I-I. Tittmann. "Model of the United States and Alaska," D. B. Wainwright. Three editions of 5,000 each were printed, all of which were distributed excepting a few; retained for special purposes. Among the details wbich occupied my attention were the designs for a show case for the display of :i large portion of the exhibit of Standard Weights and Measures. It was built of cherry wood, by a Chicago fir1i1, and completed the latter part of March . .Also rails and posts of special design for inclosing sections of the floor space were ordered in Washington and taken along. Under the direction of .Assistant Edwin Smith the instruments intended for the Exposition were collected and put in order. By the 1st of April nca.rly all the exhibits were completed, boxed, marked, and invoiced for sJ1ipment and loaded on tho cars at the Baltimore awl Ohio freight station. I arrived in Chicago .April O, witb Mr. Dice, the carpenter who had been connected with the preparations since the active work commenced, in ,June, and Mr. William T. Oliver, who bad also been employed since July. The floor space was located in the southwest corner of the Government b1i.ildi11g, opposite the Word's Fair post-office. It consisted of two detached portions, separatecl by an 8-foot aisle, anCl together contained 2 920 square feet. 'l'he larger space was originally in the shape of a rectangle 52! by 44 feet, but for the convenience of the Light· House Board a triangular .piece in tl..te northeast corner 15 by 12 fee~ was cut off and a small rectangfo 9 b,v H feet added on in its place1

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

433

The other portion of our space was north of the latter, across the .aisle, and was in rectangular form 21 by 28 feet. The first work undertaken was the construction of an oak partition between our space and that of the light-house exhibit, on which were displayed in oak frames original topographic and hydrographic sheets and a selection of charts and diagrams. H.unni11g along the partition was built a counter on which were disposed the plaster models of Car· mel Bay, Mount Desert Island, and some of our publications. The large model of the United States and Alaska was afterwards p.ut together and occupied a central position. '.l'o conceal the supports and braces, a series of white pine strips fastened at the upper ends to the edge of the model and at their lower ends to the floor formed a framework on which was tacked wine·colored felt. The area thus inclosed proved veryusefnl a8 a receptacle for storing instrument boxes. After vexatious delays and many fruitless trips to the railroad offices and yards, the 50-foot iron bar for the bench standard was found a1\d brought to our floor space. On Mr. Louis Fischer's arrival, it was taken to the blacksmith's shop at the southern extremity of the grounds to be straightened, it having been bowed in transportation. On being brought baclc, Mr. Fischer bored the holes for the germansilver plugs, making use of the lathe in the United States ordnance exhibit through the courtesy of the officer in charge; after whicl1 it was graduated. It was then mounted on the heavy railing which extend~d along the western Ride of our space, from its upper limits to within 6 feet of the lower edge. The advantage of this over customary bench standards, in -that its coefficient of expansion is nearly the same as that of steel tapes or chains, so that thermometer readings can be dispensed with when comparing, was explained to visiting engineers, and a number of steel tapes tested. Mr. George W. Dorr, chief engineer of the West Side parks, became interested in having the standard retained in Chicago, where only crude devices for a similar purpose existed. In response to a resolution of the park commissioners, the Superintendent obtained the authority to leave it in their charge for the benefit of the engineers of Chicago, and accordingly after the close of the Exposition it was set up in one of the conservatories of Douglas Park. Parallel to this exhibit, and forming a group, were arranged the compensating base-bar apparatus and the duplex apparatus. The latter, a decided novelty, since mercurial thermometers are discarded, consists of two bars, eacl1 one containing two tubes of nearly equal length-one of steel and one of brass-and so ananged that the measurement may be conducted with and expressed in terms of either component, and the difference between the measured lengths as expressed by the two components affords a measure of average temperature of either component during the measure,
S. Ex. 19, pt;
~-28

434

U. S. COAST AND GEODETru SURVEY.

Another innovation shown in the same group is the iced-bar apparatus, where the temperature of the bar is controlled by surrounding it with melting ice. Visiting engineers were invariably attracted to these exhibits and manifested their interest by the close attention given to the explanations by the Assistant iu charge, and also by the number of questions they asked. At the northern end of the main floor space an aisle G feet wide was left between the bench staudard and the group of astronomical insti:uments. '.rhe latter occupied an inclmmre 8 feet square and was composed of a meridian telescope, astronomical transit, prismatic transit, zenith telescope, telegraph keyboard, break circuit chronometer, and cylinder chronograph. A·P,ortion of the instruments were arranged so as to show the relative positions they would occupy in a longitude field station . . To the south of these came the inclosure, surrounded by a 5-foot aisle, in which were grouped the instruments used in triangulation and hypsometry. They consisted of direction theodolites, repeating theodolites, a vertical circle, a geodetic level, and an engineer's wye level. A short distance below these, and close 'to the stairway, stood the geodetic globe; and uext in order came a 6-foot counter show case iu which were displayed the small instruments used in reconnaissance, and also the new half-seconds pendulums. On the southern edge of the floor space, and far enough from the base apparatus to admit of an aisle, was located an 11by14: inch Dee press, 011 which the plate printer and his helper struck off from a small engraved copper plate prepared expressly for this purpose copies of a little chart of the St. Croix River, Maine. This exhibit always attracted a large and interested throng, and the prints were eagerly sought after. As the plate printer was plied with numerous questions and had to make frequent explanations of the process, it was impossible for him to work fast enough to supply more than a fraction of tho demand. However, the office provided for this deficiency by sending on some thousands of pl10t-0lithograph copies. On the eastern side of the iuclosure of ,the plate-printing exhibit was an openiug in the railing to serve as a passageway to the Marine Hospital space. Next to this w~ situated a screen, on both sides of which Assistant Colonna, on his arrintl, arranged the publication exhibit of the engraving division of the Survey. This illustmted in a very interesting- manner, lJy specimens, the varfous pro.cesses employed in producing a finished chart.. It furnished the material for explaining why the Survey retained the method of copper-plate engraving for most of its charts instead of the more rapid method of reproduction by photolithogra.phy. By its aid could be shown that each photolithograph print had to be corrected by hand for every change, either natural or art.ificial, occuring within its limits, since sueh corrections

REPORT FOR 189~-PART II.

435

can not be made on the stone itself; how they ate quickly and easily made on the copper plate; and, finn.lly, how photolithography, while at first the cheapest and most rapid, becomes the most expensive and slowest method of reproduction. Next to this screen, and iu the southeast corner of the tloor space, came the relief model of Hock Creek Park already described. Adjoining this, aud close up to the partition on which were suspended original topographic sheets., were placed the two plane tables and alidades-one of standard size; the other a small one for mountain work. In the curved area at the back of the large model of the United States aud Alaska were situated an office desk, a revolving 'bookcase containing a, complete set of the .A.nmrnl Heports of the Survey, and a case with fourteen drawers containing a 11early complete collection of our published charts for exhibit on special call. Immediately north of the staircase of the large model, on an oak table, was placed the full-rigged model of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Blake, lt is 42 inches in length, and shows in miniature the steamer's apparatns for anchoring and sounding in g1;eat depths. Over it was a card informing visitors that the steamer herself was located at the pier near the Casino and had on board a complete outfit for hydrographic surveying. Aloug the upper end of the partition was placed a large oak trough through which flowed a stre~m of water. In tliis was shown the Haskell-Ritchie direction and velocity meter in operation and several types of velocity meters. In the small rectangular space on the extreme north was located the tidal model. It was always surrounded by a number of interested spectators. By its side were it Stierle self-registering gauge and tile tide predictor. · On the east side of the detached floor space was situated a large cherry-wood show case, which contained all tho smaller articles of the weights and measures exhibit; among others a copy of the international prototype metre. On the opposite side of the space were the large anti medium balances. In the northwest corner the Saxton pyrometer was arranged on two imitation piers-the steel bar and mirror close to the partition, and the telescope 1111d scale 8 feet farther out. In the middle of the i-pace was a railed inclosure in which were mounted New Magnetometer No. 20, one of the Survey's latest design, and, ai> a contrast, Magnetometer No. 3, one of the earliest designed. The two plaster globes, on which was represented by lhrns and colors tl1e present state of the magnetic elements on the earth's surface, stood near by to the eastward. On the south w.as placed the comparator for testing thermometers iri liquid.

436

U. S. COAST .AND 'GEODETIC SURVEY.

The Repsold reversible pendulum and the Peirce yard and metre pendulums were arranged in brackets along the western partition. Messrs: James S. Hunter, .T. D. Cleary, and G. Uitter, draftsmen, were engaged in plotting the contours on tlie State maps previous to their reduction by photograplly, aud tllen in drawing the details ,on the surface of the large model and building up the elevations. Mr. Cleary prepared most of the sections of tlle Rock Creek model, and its excellence is due to his skill and patient care. Be was assisted in the latter part of this work by Mr. Hunter. l\fr. Hunter also prepared the plaster globes for the artist, outlining the continents and the color boundaries, besides drawing the parallels and meridians and tracing the colored Jines showing the dip, intensity, and deflection on the magnetic globes. He worked with great rapidity and intel1igence. Miss M. Antisell painted in appropriate oil colors the watBr areas and State boundaries 011 the large model aJHl the continents and magnetic areas on the plaster globes. Iler work was pronounced quite satisfactory and artistic. Mr. R. M. C. Dice, assisted by Mr. William T. Oliver, executed the carpenter work on the large model, as well as all work of like character required in preparing the exhibits. He showed hinu;elf to be a man of energy and resource. ].\fr. H. 0. French, the chief carpenter of the Survey, materially assisted by solving a number of lmotty ·problems ,which presented themselves during the construction of some of the mo<lels. Mr. William 'l'. Oliver had proved so useful in such a variety of ways that his appointment as atten<lant to the exhibit at Chicago was recommended and approved. Messrs. Louis h V\Tilliams, H. G. Gassaway, S. Blake, jr., J. P. Moritz, and .A. L. vVasserbach were engaged p1'illcipally in building up the surface of the large model. I was relieved from the charge of the exhibit in Chicago on June 17 by Mr. B. A. Colonna, Assistant in charge of the office, an<l was granted a ten days' leave of :tbscnce before proceeding to Eastport, Me., in connection with the international water boundary. Mr. Colonna was relieved by the following officers of the Survey in turn: W. H. Dennis, from July G to .July 24; C. A. Schott, from July 25 to .August 15; E. D. Preston, from .August Hi to September 7; Edwin Smith, from September 8 to September 30; Lieut. Commander Jeff. C. Moser, from October 1 to October 10, The following mechaniciaus were on duty at Chicago in connection with the exhibit: Louis A. Fischer, from May 1 to J.\fay 28; Otto Storm, from .June 1 to July ~n; E.G. Fischer, from August l to .August 31; W.R. Whitman, from September 2 to October Hi. Also the following plate printers: C. J. Harlow, ·Eberhard l~ordar1, and Richard Bright.

REPORT POR 1893-PART II.

437

Mr. Harlow arrived before the installation was complete and before it wa;; practicable to commence printing the miniature charts. In the meantime he was quite zealous in forwarding the work in every way. On October 11 I returned to Chicago, relieving Lieutenant-Commander Moser. Previous to the close of the Exposition, on October 30, snch arrangements as could be made for expediting the paeking were perfected, and pt·omptly on the morning of the 31st the work or dismounting the instruments and putting them in their boxes was begun. The wisdom of the ofiice·was clearly shown in the detail of Mr. George W. Olarvoe for this work. His long familiarity with the handling and 1mcking of delicate· instruments enabled him to accomplish far more than an ordinary carpenter without this experience. Although the progress made was rapid, every precaution was taken to insure tbe safety of tlie articles shipped, with the result that everything arrived in Washington in excellent condition. By November 30 th.e last details for sliipping the .exhibits were completed, and I transferred them, together with the invoices and bills of lading, to the charge of Mr. Fred. A. Stocks, representative of the United States Treasury, and returned to Washington. There was allotted to the Coast and Geodetic Survey out of the appropriation for the United States Government exhibits the sum of $12,000. Part of the preparation, where expert work was required on instru· ments and models, was necessarily performed in our instrument and carpenter shops, and no estimate is given of its cost. Other than this, the sum of $10,000 was expended, and the i~ems and approximato amounts can be grouped under the following heads: Labor, $4,000.-This includes the pay of draftsmen, carpenters, an artist, and the labor required in constructing the iron building. Material, $1,800.-This includes lumber, paints, oils, hardware, plaster, globe stands, plaster relief models, mechanism for tidal model, miniature tide gauge, miniature tide indicator, etc. Traveling expenses, $2,000.-This includes the railroad fares to and from Chicago, of the officers who had charge of the exhibit at; the Exposition, of the mechanicians, and of the plate printers; also their subsistence allowance while en route and in Chicago, at $2.50 per day. Installation, $1,200.-This includes show cases, ·desk and chairs, railing, stairway for large model, chart frames aud glass, partitions, and decoration. Maintenance, $1,000.-This includes the pay of an attendant, of a plate printer's helper, water bills, and sundries . .Abc.ut 300 accounts were presented for settlement, each account requiring duplicate and sometimes triplicate vouchers. During the preparations in Washington requisitions signed by the Superintendent or his representative were made for all material used.

438

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

A book containiug printed requisitions, with stubs and tlerial uumbcrs, was furnished for this purpose. Exclusive of the short letters transmitting vouchers and ,1ccounts, the correspondence consisted of about mo communica.tions and the same number of replies on various topics connected with the exhibit. On the resignation of Assistant Secretary A. B. :Nettleton, in the spring of 1893, Mr. Fred. A. Stocks, then chief clerk of the Treasury Department, was appointed the representative of the 'l'reasnry on the board of management of the Government exhibits. It is a pleasant duty to record here his u11failing earo or our interests and his invariable courtesy in a trying· position. In closing this report, some general remarks seem appropriate in order that those in charge of future exhibits may profit by our past experience. It is a great saving of time, worry, and expense to carry along all material for installation, except possibly lumber for partitions. Even after the most careful arrangements have beeu made, once on the ground delays from unforeseen causes wili arise. The more independent one is of supplies from the outside the smaller the opportunity for these delays to occur. Posts and railings should be designed, ordered, and made in time to ship with or befor13 the exhibits. The most satisfactory partition was one adopted by the Treaimry Department, followi11g the example of the National Museum. It con· sisted of planed pine boards with a molding running along the top. Below the molding the boards ·are covered with wide, heavy cotton cloth, tacked on. Tlie lines of tacks are concealed by a narrow molding. The moldings are painted a dead or drop black, and the cloth stained a dark maroon color. The result is quite rich and effective. It would not answer to dispense With the cotton 'cloth and paint the boards themselv~s, since ugly white emcks would appear in time, due to the shrinkage of the wood. I believe our instruments were the only ones at the Exposition displayed without tlle protection of glass cases. On this account they gradually lost their bright and neat appearance. On the other hand, the cost of show cases sufficiently large would have been a serious tax upon our allotment. Besides, visitors never take the same interest or show the same desire to Rtudy articles which are shut off from them in this way, compared to the interest they manifest for those moreaccessible. When practicable, imitation brick or stone piers should be used for mounting all instruments, as they add very .much to the effectiveness of the displa.y. Our example in this respect was followed in several instances. All machinery or mechanism in operation has an intense· fascination for the average visitor, and next to the souvenir fever may be said to be his most conspicuous mental characteristic.

REPORT l<'OR 1893-PART' II.

439

The rage for souvenirs manifests itself among those of a low moral standard in an exceeding·ly inconvenient way for the exhibitor. It is unsafe to leav.e exposed small articles, even those of no intrinsic value, where they can be readily carried oft' by relic hunters. 'l:he following awards were made to the Survey: 1. For the collective exhibit of chart.s, maps, models, instruments, and publications. 2. For the charts of the Survey, which are no doubt the best in the world on account of the perfoctiou of survey, the short time in· which they were made, the greatness or plan for doing the general survey, and the enormous resources that the Government pnt into the work. 3. For a number of' improvements in the construction of theodolites, levels, and other implements of precision. For a large collection of geodetic instruments of the hig·hest degree of' excellence, many of which were improved by members· of the corps an<l ma<le in the shops of the· Survey. _4. For important improvements in pendulums for gravity work, namely: The tram1fer of the knife edges to the supports, whereby they can be polished or sharpened without affccti11g the pendulum; for the means of determining the period by the principle of coincidences; for the consequent reduction of size and ·weight, facilitating· transportation and manipulation. 5. For the irn;tructive object lesson preseuted in the model of the U]1ite<l States, including Alaska, by which the true curvature of the earth is clearly shown and the relations of heights and distances by the employment of but one scale. It exhibits in an ingenioqs manner the direction of the magnetic meridians, and also the principal trianguiation of the United States and the position of' the base lines. 6. For various iug·enious devices for securing the greatest possible accuracy in the measurement of bases, and for determining the errors incidental thereto. For carefully engraved charts, a collection of the annual reports of great interest and importance, an'd complete sets of tide tables aud coast pilots. · 7. For evidence of the fine coustruction aud precision of' the standards of length, weight, and volume constructed in the shops of the Bureau. For the repr<>sentatives of tl1e International Metre and the British Imperial yard.

Blank page retained for pagination

GEODESY.

ON THE VARIATION OF LATITUDE AT SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.,
l<'ROJll

OBSERVATIONS :MADE IN" CONCEHT WITH TI-IE INTEHNATIONAL GEODETIC ASSOCIATION IN 18!ll AND 18!l2.

0b8ervationA hy G. DA \TJDSON, AsAistant. DiHOUF<,..ion antl report by CI-1AS. A. SCHO'l."1\ Ai;sisti..n. t.

AP PEN DIX No. 11-REPORT FOR 1893.

441

Blank page retained for pagination

CONTENTS.
Pago.

Introduction .. ·............................................................. . 445 Position, description, and climatie clull'actN of statiou ..................... . 445 Instrumenta.L outfit and methotl of ohscn·atiou .... _........................ . 446 Reduction of the observations for 111titnde ............... _................. . 452 45.2 The mean places (in N. P. D.) of stars aml their authorities ................. . 462 Tabulation of the individual rosnltR for latitude, arranged by groups ....... . 491 Combination of preceding results for variation of latitude .................. . Reduction of results by each pair of st1m1 to uniform declination system of group ...... _............................................................. . 492 Probable error of observation for latitude by Zouith 'roloscopos Nos. 1aud3 .. . 49\l 495 Duily moans of values for lntitudo for comparison and connection of groups .. 499 Hesulting values for group connoctious .................................... .. 501 Hesulting values of daily moaus for latitude ............................... . 503 Tabulation of29 normal values oflatitudes between May, 18911 and August, 1892. 504 Estttblishmeut of analytical expression for variation of latitude ............ . Comparison of observed variation with the variation following from Dr. 505 Chandler's researches .................................................... ·· Comparison of tho results for ntriation of ln.tit.1\do deduced from the three 506 Coast and Geotletic Survey stations ....................................... .

ILLUSTRATIONS.
Diagram No. 20.-Variation in latitude at Sau Francisco, Cal,, as observed nnd us computed...... .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Diagram No. '21.-Cornparison of simnltancons variations in lntitnde of the Coast nnd Geodetic Survey stations, Waikiki, San Francisco, and Rockville.· 503 608.

443

Blank page retained for pagination

APPENDIX No. 11-1892.

THE VARIATION 01·' LATITUDE AT SAN FHANCISCO, CAL., AS DETERMINED FRO:ll OBSEHVATIONS MADE llY GEORGE DAVIDSON, ASSISTANT COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY, BETWEEN l\IA Y, 1891, AND AUGUST, 1892.
Discussion of result11 and report by CnAS. A. Scnorr, AsAistant. Heport submitted for publication .June 27, 1894.

IN'l'RODUC'.l.'ORY REMARKS.

'fhe observations for variat.ion of latitude at Sau Francisco, Cal., were undertaken in cooperation with the International Geodetic Asso· ciation. It is one of three stations occupied by the Survey, simultaneously, and was selected with respect to position in order to secure the best results for elucidating the phenomenon of the shifting of the earth's axis of rotation. 'l'he results at the other two stations have already been published, thm:e on the variation of latitude at Rock-· ville, l\fll., in Appendix: No. 1, Coa8t and Geodetic Survey Report for 1892, al111 those reached at \Vaikiki, near lfonolnlu, Hawaiian Islands, in Appendix No. 2, Heport for 1892. The number of observations at San Francisco considerably exceeds those made at .the other stations combined, and their reduction was somewhat delayed for want of available computing force.
POSI'l'ION, DESCRII'TION, AND CLIMATIC
CIIARACTEI~ 01~

STATION.

Tho astronomic and geodetic station known as "JJafayette Park" }s Rituated in the northern part of the city of San Francisco, just north of the intersection of Clay a11d Octavia streets, where a small inclos_uro protects t;h(I temporary observatories, used also for telegraphic longitude work and as a pendulum station for gravitation· work. The observatory is a painted wooden structure, 15 feet long east and west, and 10 feet broad. north and south. 'l'lrn floor is 3 feet above the ground, and no part of the structure touches the piers. The one upon which tho zenith telescope was mounted has stood many years, an<l is htid up in brick and cement from the base on the clay to the sandstone cap. The top of the pier is about 5 foet from the ground and about 30 inches above the
445

446

U. S. COAS').' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

observatory floor. 'l'he pier is subject to heat effects. On a very hot day, with the sun shining, the south side always rises. .The center of the latitude instrument was 5·1 feet east of the center 'of the transit instrument (as wied for the determination of time and longitude). The north and south openings in the roof above the zenith telescope are 1 foot wide, and the slides were usually kept 10° below the lowest star, ex\!ept in winter or during strong winds. A short distance east and west of the slides there are wind breaks tq protect the levels. Tho telescope is eccentric to the vertical axis aud just clears each 8ide of the roof opening, with the objective about 2 feet inside the building. The geographical position· is referred to the pier supporting the transit instrurnent, which is approximately in latitude 370 47' :.!8"·3 and in longitude 8h 09 01 42·8·, or 122° 25' 4:.!" W. of Greenwich. 'l'he top of the pier supporting the latitude i118trument is 382·2 feet above tho datum plane of the survey, equivalent to 379·3 feet or 115·6m above average sea level. 'l'he climatic conditions at this station are very adverse to astronomical observations. The observer states in the preface·to his record, "The situation of this station, almost on the southern shore of the Golden Gate antl surrounded by water on the cast and the westwith the strong, cold ocean winds commingling with the warm or hot air of' the day and the comparatively warm air of the night, with high ·and low fogs forming and dissipating through the night, aiul variable winds almost always from the sea or with the warm air of the city blowing over tlrn station with a light southerly air-is perhaps the worst that can be imagined." And the observer remarks further, '' 'l'he.re was scarcely a night when the stars were not moving slowly or quickly 2" above or 2" below the micrometer thread, and frequently ;)" or 6"; 1;1ometimes the atmosphere caused them t-0 a11pear very diffosed and nebuloas."
INSTRUMEN'l'.A.L OU'l'.l<'l'.1' AND :;'llE'.l'llOD 01·' OJlSEltVA'.J'JON.

Observations for time were. made wit.h Transit Instrument No. 3, made by Simms in 1848. lt ha::; an aperture of 7'' 111 , a focal length of 116°111, and is· used with a m:igni(yiug power of 110. 'l'ransits were recorded over the 5 lines of the miclcllc tally of the glass reticule, ancl time was noted by sidereal chro110111eter Hut.ton, No. 211, in part by rneans of a
"For convenience of refcreuce 1hll approximate poMitions (<p, ;\)of the other Ia.titude stations, as well aH of Bcrliu, Germn.ny, am hnre applln<le<l:

----------------------·--------------- .. - - - - - · - - - - - - - - - - - ,

o

/

II

Waikiki, near Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands 21 16 24·4 Rochille, Md. · 39 05 10·5 52 30 16·7 Berlin, Germany

I
I

h. 111. s. o I II 10 31 20·1 or 157 50 01 W. 5 08 38·5 77 09 37 w. o 53 34·9 13 23 44 E.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

447

,-----·-·
No. Date.
I

chronograph, but later by the eye and ear method. Value of one division of striding level, 1"·01, and pivot inequality clamp end 0·08· larger. Latitude observations were made by 'l'alcott's metlto<l. Zenith Tele~cope No. l was used from the beginning of the series to December 3, 18!)], when it was repl;weµ by Zonith Telesco1)e No. a, which instrument was used to the close of the work. The first-named instrumeiit is the oldest on the Survey. It was made by 'l'roughton & Simms in 1847. Its pri1wipal defect is a lack of stability; hence demanding great caution in lrnndling it. A new eyepiece micrometer was S'\lpplied in 1879. The telescope has an aperture .of 8·25°"', a focal length of 117" 111 , and magnifying power used about 53. l~rom May to .July 28, 1891, a single level was used. It is a chambered level, graduated from the middle and having a value of one division equal 0"·!)2 for that part of the scale most frequently used in latitude work, the general value being 0"·90 (at temperature 22°·8 C.), as derived from micrometric measures; length of one division= 1·2111111 on ivory scale. After tlie above date two new levels were attached to the quadrant of the instrument. They are chambered and read from one end of the scale-the lower level from 60 to 100 divisions, the upper one from 0 to 50 divisions. One division of the lower level, marked 11, 1"·55 K & E, was found to he 1"·56 (at temperature 250.5 0.), and one division of the upper level, marked 9, 1"·7 K & E, 1".73 (at .the same temperature) for those parts of. the scale usually observed upon; length of one division = 2111111 for both levels. Tile value of the micrometer screw has been determined. from observations on close circumpolar stars near the eastern nud western elongatiqus. '£hey embrace the following series:

I ____ J .... I

I

I

:
Phusc.
·-· ·-·--

Star.
--·-··-.

!

i

sere\\.' turns.

Rnngc of

Suhdi-1 Resultii1g visions vllluc of one
of a turn. turn.

Weifl'hl (relative).

~

2 3 4
..

8 9
IO II

5 6 7

1891. ; May 28 . ;t vrs. Min. 31 " June I " 3 " 5 " 12 " Aug. 5 a vrs. Min. 6 " 7 " ;t Urs. Min. Nov. 241

I

··-·----- - -

- - - - --··II

I
7 to " I 10 12 " I 8 " 9 " 16 " E. Elong. 5 4 " 4·5 " W. Elong. 33 33 " I 33 " " 133
I

E. Elong.

25
I

27

I

12

Dec.

I I

" " "

27 30 30 30 13 25·2 36 I 36 I 37 ! .7 I i 7 6 7
I

I

t t t t t t

* * * * * t *

47·544 ·568 ·5o5 ·546 [1 ·069] ·619 ·625 ·590 ·590 ·632 ·679 ·6o8

·6o5

52 51

49 42 30 49 0 23 63 65 65 53 50

The weighted mean value from the 12 series is 1 revolution or turn of 100 divisions=47"·596::!:0"·008. The relative weights depend on .the number of individual observations in ea-0h series, and the parts of

448

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the screw haye been compared with the adopted value 47"·60, furnishing the following corrections to the screw readings on account of progressive irregularity in the value of one turn:
Corre.tJtiQnB to micrometer 1·eadings for inequality in valuea of tm·11B.

Reading.

1 ·91 8·06 ·22 ·37 ·52 9·02 ·17 ·35 ,. '53 ·72 ·91 10'10 ·30 ·50 ·71

Corr~-1 Rcadi:~l;~c:<;ii~;i- -~~~---l Readin~. d .t " t I d t +2·6 i +0·9 I
1·

!:11 2·3
1·8 1·7 1 .6
l .

:~~

::~

~::

I

I ·--- __+o·:_i______.____
l'O

5 1·4 1·3 I . 2 1 .1

32·82 ·50 32·14 31 ·79 ·46 31·11 30·75 ·39 30·04 29·68

33:~~

35 ·29 34·93 ·57 34 ·21 33·86

1·

10·93 1 11·16 ·38 ·62 I ·87

·

I

I

o·6

~:7

s

'

·1·1

·70 'i 13·00 ,il ·33 1 ·68 14·06 ·48 ·95 /, 15 ·46 16·09 ·94
!
i'

12:~~

0·1 0 _ 0 .1 0·3 0·4 0 .5 0 .6 o· 7
. 0 2

~:~

~: 4 5

26·59 26·16 25·70 24·74 24·19 23 ·61 22·94 22·19 21·22

27:~

29·32 28·96 ·59 28·20 27·81

25 "24

--0·8 _ _ _ __

.A further correction for periodic inequality in a tur11 was applied, viz:
Reading of screw head.
II

C~rr'n.
d

I
.I

Reading of screw head.

_ _ _ ........ !.. ____ ....

d
52·8 46·4 40·1 32·1 21 ·8 I I ·6 o·o

+~:~
0·1 0 .0 --0·1 ·-0'2 -0·3

d 71'8
76·9 80·9 84·9 89·4 95·9
100·0

The sidereal focus of the telescope was tel'lted before each series. Changes of temperature <lo not appear to have any sensible effoet upon the screw value. Trials were also made for testing the regularity of the screw without resort to star observations. 'rhe method is to remove the micrometer apd fit it to the stage of a microscope; turn the microscope tube horizontal; fix a ground-glass sea.le, say of millimetres, at such distance from the ocular that one revolution of the screw shall cover just 20 The illumination is by lamplight, and the space between the ocular and the scale is covered with black velvet. .After adjusting tho lines of the scale and the micrometer thread, the observer moves the scale horizontally until a certain space is filled with the thread when the micrometer is reading zero. The micrometer bead is then turned until
11101 ,

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

449

tho thread fills the 11cxt space, when tho micrometer is again read. The process is continued to get a uumber of such sets. Satisfactory results were obtained in this ma11nrr. For extra meridional observations the diaphragm of Telescope :No. l was provided with 5 vertical lines, with intervals from the middle line of 3'.Nl·, Hi-1 ·, O·O·, Hi·G·, ancl 33·1 ·, respec· tively. From and after Decmnbor 13, 18!H, .Zenith 'felescopo No. :3 took the place of No. 1 for the latitude work. No. :3 is by the same makers and dates from 1848. It was, howeve1·, remodeled in 1891. It is of the same pattern as the instrnmeut u:wd at Hockville, l\ld., and shown on plate No. 2, in Appendix No. l, Hcport for 1892. 'l'hc improvements made consist of: :New objective, by Brashear; new diagonal eyepiece ancl straight eyepieces, by Kahler; two new levels; a new stride level; entirely new micrometer with horizontal aml vertical parallactic motions; new and larger axis of telescope, with adjustment; new a.Jl(l !wavier base and vertical axis; 11ew wyes for support of tele8copc; imp1·oved clamp for telescope, and some minor repairs. The instrument is thus practically new. Aperture of telescopP, 7·6" 111 ; focal length, l]()o(j·· 111 ; magnifying power used, about 100. 'l'he observer remarks: "Stars which the objective of No. 1 would not reach are readily observed with the 11cw o~jcc tive, and seve11th magnitude stars cau now be observe1l with greater satisfaction than sixth magnitude stars with :Xo. l. 'l'he double star 13. A. C. 2300 is separated clean and distinctly and. is 1·asy to observe." The values of the divisions of the chambered levels were ns follows: Level mounted in upper case marked 4, 1"·8, K & E, a11<l 11urnbere<l from 0 to 60, with 21111" divisions-011e division eq nals 1 "·HO;i; level in lower case marked 5, 1"·8 K & E, and 11u111bere1l from 70to130, with 2 1" 111 divisionsone division equals 1' 1·807 (temperature a.bout 170 C.), as tested.October 15 and rn, 18!)1. A long series of observations were made 011 close circumpolar stars to establish the valne of the micrometer screw, as well as its irregularities. For determi11ing the horizontality of the micrometer thread the instrume11t; was collimated with a Frauuhofor telescope. A bright, star-like object was seledcd on the eyepiece of the collimator on which to test the motion of the screw, the same as had ueen done with the first or older instrument. No less t.lian 4 4,13 observations were recorded for value of micron1eter,* and it became necessary to make a selection of the series, omitting from computation the more or less broken and imperfect series, thus retainlug 15 of the total number 31. -------------- ---------· ----· IncrcMing nnmbcrH of 111 i1·romcter co1TcHponcl to tlocrousiug zonith distances. Micromotor :mu leYel8 wcro reuti by oloctric light. S. Ex. HJ, pt. 2--29

450

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVF.Y.

The following table exhibits the results:

-:-1 "·"
1 2

,. .

I ....,.
-1-·--- ·
W. Eloni;. E. " W. E. W. E.

J , W . h Range of I v1swns; vnluc of one elf{ l i screw turnn. , t>f 11 ! turn. (rclau vc).
:1·

S~1hrli- Re~ultlng
1

, turn.

·----·1----1-·------------- ---18 9 2. I
3 4 5 6 8 i a Urs. Min. 9 Bradley 1672 9 a Urs. Min. 10 ; Braclley 1672 10 <t Urs. Min. May 4 il Urs. Min. 6 o Urs. :Min. 6 il Urs. Min. 7 o Crs. Min. 7 il Crs. '.Vlin. Sept. 5 (t Ur,, l\Iin. 5 il Urs. l\'lin. 6 ii. Urs. Min. 17 1r Urs. l\lin. 21 il Urs. Min. Feb.
-------·-·

---II

---·----

5 35 5
35

to

35

5
35

9t 35 9t 35

t * t
!

t

4]'668
~57

7 8 9
IO
11

12 13 14 15

E. E. E. F E. W. \\'. E. \\',
·- -·- -·-

35 35
35 35 36

4 5 5 5 5 4
36 36

* *
* t
·k
.I.

4 4
36

+.

!.

4
36

4

*
~-

·633 ·659 ·671 ·624 ·656 ·620 ·648 ·621 ·638 ·647 ·642 ·617 ·644

'

61 50 76 49 73 75 31 76 31 76 81 81 81 81 81

-'---------

----·-------------

'l'he weighted mean value of one turn is 47"·636 ± 0"·005. 'l'he <liscussiou of the results for inequality of screw showed that it was nearly perfect. The small corrections for inequality in values of one turn are as follows, and correspond to an adopted value7 47"·60:
ReadingCorr.

I
I

Reading.

I . ! Readm~.

-·-·

------ ---- I

Corr. Reading. --------· - ·-------;

,/

t 35·86 35'!0 34·37 33·67 3 2 '99 32·32 31 ·66 31 ·02 30·38 29·74 29·11 28·48 27·84 3·89 4·25 4·63 5·04 5·46 5·91 6·40 6·93 7·51 8·16 8·90 9·78 I0'99

d

-f-2·0 1·9 1 ·8 1 ·7 1·6 r ·5 1·4 1·3 I '2
I' I

-t-0·7 o·6 0·5 0·4 0·3 0·2 0·1 o·o -0·1
0·2

2·89
3·21

3·54

1·0 0·9 o·8 -f-0'7

0·3 0·4 0·5 -0·6

27·21 26·57 25·91 25 ·24 24·56 23·86 23·13 22·36 21 ·55 20·67 19·70 18·58 17·09

--·---·· - - - - - - - . - -

'l'he correction for perio1lic inequality in one turn, or for eccentricity of screw hea<l, is as below:

·~:<;;~~~-~-;·;1cn_1_l._i- -~o~r.
d. 227
1 5'3

.

I;{c-a:!in;,:;l~c~d~ I
-1---------1
" d ;

d

o·o

____________________ i · _,

33·2 38·9 43·6 48·1

o·o --0·1 -0·2

75·5
70·3 65·1

92·8 100·0

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

451

The changes of temperature 110 not appear to have :my sensible effect upon the value of the screw. For extra-meridional observations there were five vertical lines on the reticule at the rcspeetive distances of 18·9·, 9·4·, O·O·, and 9·5·, the last line being missing. During the observations for latitude the condition of the atmosphere as to pressure, temperature, moisture, wind, and general aspect was noted. For recording- the time of observation either sidereal chronometer Hutton, No. ~11 or break-circuit (sid.) chronometer Froch;ham, No. :am was employed. Hespectiug the method of observing, the record contains the following statements: "The meridian of the instrument was determined each uight before the latitude observations uy an observation of a circumpolar star to fix the east stop for the north meridian, and by au observation of a low south star to fix the west stop for the south meridian. Duri11g the series of observations care was taken in reversing the instrument to come up to the stops without jar." Owing to want of horizontality of the micrometer thread when making extra-meridian pointings, * the observer remarks: "I therefore propose that all the carlicl' extra. meridional observations be rejected." 'l'he levels were read about one and one-fourth minute before the passage of the Htar, the pillar and telescope having been slightly tapped with a wand to remove auy possible strain, and they were read agaiu immediately after the transit. 'l'he observer's judg·uient is that the level readings bt:/'orc the star observations should be disregarded. Jfarthqnake shocks were experienced on .June 20, 1891, on October 11, 18!)1, a11d on April 18, 18!J2, without any apparent local effect on the direction of the vertical. 1'Le following is an extract from the record: "I determiued to observe on every clear 1iight two consecutive groups of three hours each; to observe in each group as many 1mirs as practicable, having reasonable regard to the authorities and the amount and sign of the difference of zenith distances in each pair. In selecting pairs where the proper motion was determined I was restricted to the magnitrnle of stars not smaller than six and one-half~ I paid no regard to the (absolute) zenith distances of the pairs, and have gone as far aH zenith distance 4G 0 :38' when there was an unfilled interval. I have taken some pairs of doubtful value, both as t-0 authorities a11d large range of micrometer or shortness of interval. 'l'hese may be eliminated if their weakness is shown to he detrimental to satisfactory results. ll< ll< ll< The difformwe of zenith distance of the t.wo stars in a pair rarely exceeded 15', and was then only adopted when no other combination could be utilized. ll< · · I was 11a111pered in the selection of pairs because I had but few catalogues to collate from." The observations for time were made by F. W. Edmonds and Sub. assistant F. l\forse. 'l'he earlier observations were recorded on the chronograph; after that by the eye and car. The.latitude·obscrvations
-------·

- --- ------

--·-- -- --

---- ----- - - - -

"Such point:ings wero i11tr01l11cetl by tho obsorvor prior to tho ~·oar 1880, n.nd had otherwiBo beou con~i!lorcd prior to 1866. (Heport for 1866, p. 75.)

452

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

proper were all made by Assistant G. Davidson, aided, when observing for value of micrometer, by T. D. Davidson or by G. J. Kammerer, who read the levels, and by F. W. Edmonds, who noted the times and made the record. The series extends over fifteen months with but one.noticeable break of forty days, in June and July, 1892, when the observer was absent on other official duty. The total number of individual latitude determinations is 6 768, the · total number of nights of observation 237, and the average number of pairs of stars (doublets, triplets, and other combinations included) 28~. The whole star work is arranged in 8 groups, of which 3 were re.observed after the expiration of the year. The date of the first observation is May 27, 1891, and that of the last August 19, 1S92. There is, qy tlie same observer (same place, same instrument, No. 1, same pairs of stars), a prior series of observations, in January and February, 1888, as well as a later one, commencing with November, 1893, and extending to the present year. These series will be taken up and the results communicated ,at some future time.
'.l'HE IiEDUC'.l'ION OF '.l'HE OBSEltVA'.I:'IONS FOR LATITUDE.

The labor connected with the computation from a record of 52 octa~o books, and involving uo less than 6 768 individual results for latitude, was distributed arn<?ng several cornpt1ters, viz: The deteru:iination of the mean places of stars, 303 in number, and the computation and discussion (with table of corrections for inequality) of the 28 series for value of micrometers were assigned to H. Farquhar; the computation of the apparent places of stars and the appl~cation of the several corrections for micrometer measures and for level and refraction were intrusted to L. Pike; aud the general revision of these results, together with the reduction to the meridian and final checking, was placed in the hands of H.F. Flynn, all members of the computing division. Further occasional assiStance was had by the temporary assignment of 4 computers for short times. The combination and discussion of the results are due to the writer. The whole work was accomplished substantially between May 1, 1893, and May 31, 1894.
THE MEAN PLACES OJ!' STARS.

' In making out the mean places of stars all available star catalogues w:ere consulted, as will be seen froni the appended but condensed form of presentation given to it by Mr. H. Farquhar, the high quality, ,as to accuracy, of whose results may be seen in the probable errors assigne.d' to them, and better in the small reductions to the group means of the results of the individual pairs forming the groups. '

REPOlt'l' FOR 1893-PART II .
.Dc·ig11atio11· of a11tlw1'ities used.
-----------

453
----·

----=_ _ _ _ - - - - - _ ---\--------- _ -~~i~ns.·-i---Ohscr\'atory. I Epoch.

D~~~~~u-ai all

I

--

-···-------~-----·--··-·-----··--·-

I
j

Cbnductor of

J·:t1itor,

ctt.:,

Armagh
"

,., , Berlin. clv '-'" Capeof(;ood Hope
cv
,vii

b

"
"

"
"

"
"

I I

I I

1834-54 59-82

Robinson

I
j

I l Jrcyer. Stone. liill. Smyth. '.Ylouchez.
121'.

76-78
34-40 49-52

Hecker Maclcar Stone Argelnndcr Henderson Smyth Arago Le Verrier De Launay Airy " ,,

d
cl

~" Bonn = Edinbuq::h
.-·=-' Paris

71-79
45-67
34-44 54-69

eil

j·

;vi

37-53
54-69

j"ll g· :·-.: Greenwich
gVJ ''

70-81
36-47 48-53 54-60

6v
9Y

,,crViil
,!,'Ix
.~-x

gvtt

''

61-67 68-76
77-86
c-,,

iy·
7J''
!OJ'

" Christie
Rogers Jacob Grant Kaiser Ellery Carrington Johnson l'llain · Stru\'e (;ylden, Xyrt''n Romberf;
(~uetelct

hi hll

llarvartl

70-79
83-85
60-81 64-70

l'ickerin.:. Smyth.

i k
I
111
It

=Madras :=.Glasgow =Leiden .=.- Melbourne ~.., Redhill .,_ c Radcliffe

so±

"

63-70
54-56
40-54

~fain.

54-61
l'ulkowa

"

62+ 42-49 40-69

63-75 69-74
74-80
r

Ver. Circ. Meri<.l. Circ. Auwcrs (llauptst.). l Zusatzst.). Folic.

v
w

·=Brussels ·=Rome (Capit.) =Ann Arbor Yladison =Cordoba ---=Leipzig :-o.- Washington Hamburg Konigsberg

56-78

75-77 85
79± 72-83 66-70

=

Respighi Schacberle Holden Gould Engelmmm Riimka Bessel
- ----·
-·

MS. MS.
Auwers, Safford. Yarnall, Frisby.

45-77 36+
25±
IL

---------------------------------·---·.
(Lust two are onl~· quotecl for lacking.)
very fow Htnr~

fo1·

which ot.ll!'r unt.horitio~ nre

------- --- -

f!'{o Kpecinl tk~ignu.tioll

B. A. C,]
( >hscr\'cr.

Oh!icr\'utory.

Editur.

F
G L

CEu

Paris Black heath Paris Argelander's northern zones

l.n'llande

Groombriclge I.alan<le

Fcdorenko. Airy. Baily.
O~ltzen.

! __I

454

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

·.·In the table, authorities are IJOt included when the observations are ear]ie~·than 1834. No weight is given to any such authorities when the propermotion is derived from.Auwers's Bradley. When the pro1'>er motion has to be calculated (or .Auwers's value corrected), earlier authorities are used, though not here quoted . .A few later authorities used by Auwers and Safford are omitted, because omitted on the sheets. Auwers's stars are those under p 1v and p.v. Most of the p 1v stars arc p 1 also; a considerable number of them also Zand v.
------------------------------------! No.R.A.C., "I'll 8 . I ' _.\ uthoritic~.

IM
!

alci,ilgv, vi,Yli, vlli,ix,xfll,liolpii.lv, viq1v

· - II

_____ )

etc,

can
0

.1·~-~-·--~9:
I

-

t

a1eigvlil,ix,x,,(_.0 i1pilq

gvll,viilz'oiqw
ailei~ixhliktj1"1V

aicvileigv, v1,vii, vili,lx,xhl,llJ..nwiipli,iv, viqJ7l'

4724 4783 4797 4808 4843 4863 4897 4937 4953 5022 5034 5097 5120 F 2677
I. 28716
i

25 79 51 53 59 45 52 51 39 64 98 30 73 20 84 92 II 3I 73 29 74 67 36 36 79 24

06 23 06 08 07 46 44 55 33 58 39 34 2I I2 45 52 08 03 58 24 34 52

II'OO ·0·02 09·3I 1 I ·o5 50·76 I '22 55 ·28 ! 'IO 59·84 ·02 29·55 45·27 2I ·88 32'I5 38·94 39·90 49·43 07·I7 26·43 53·29 37·02 36·66 I3'6o 36·7I 07·27 50·36 22·71 12·68
·02

//

II

--0·0I9 +o·I67 +0·003 ·+-o·oI. ··-O·III +0·034 +0·06 -O'II2 +0·227 +0·060 -0·029 ·-f-0·030 -0·0I3 -1-0·007 -0·04 o·oo +0·035 o·ooo -0·345 +o·ou -0·0I9 o·oo +0·045 -0·024 -0·024 +0·048 -0·047 +0·0I4 +0·035 ··-0'022 -0·045 --0·0I4 -1-0·048 -O'OOI -0·042

aibelgv,xhi 0 i,iipi·,v,viqr

allellioiilq1 ..w dt·gXiko1p11.viqw
aldelgv,x 0 1,ilpll. vlqrw alelgv,ix,x p11.viqrw alelglx,xhlol,11
cJv,vilei,figv,vi,vli,vili,ix,xhik111ol,ilpll.lv,vlq111v aleigv,vi,v1i,vlli,ix,xhi,iloi,ilp1i 1v,vitjJ"1V

'22 ·04 ·03 ·03 ·03 ·02 'OI ·I2 ·Io ·08 ·04 '02 ·02 ·04 ·04 ·28 '20 ·03 ·04 ·04 ·03 ·07 ·03 ·01

5 37

a'.l,"vllikpll g·hlplls
a·lgx
aicv t'igvllikpli. vlqutu
aicigv,v1,vii,vlll,lx,x1tl,lioipii,lv.vlqw aielgv,vi,ix,xht,il 0 i,i1pii.lv,viqr

belgv.vl,x piiqw eigv,vll,lx,x;nlpliy

5246 5285 5348 5392 5459 5504 5530 5574

ailellikq aiiellgYlliiqr
alelgv,lx,x/oipll,vlr 01 { elgv,lx,x 01pli'.vl}
1

50·85

gv,1x,x 0 1p'·1

5575
5692 5740 /,31117 5790 5821

5I\~~::~J23·30

albelg'·,.-1,xhlp11qw
elgv,vil,lx,xoi,ii pll. vlq

allelgxpll
elgxfi1inlpll,v,vi 1-w
civ,vllel,tlgv,vl,vli,vlil,lx,xhl,ilkmvl,11pi1,lv,vlq1u

55
49 75 29 29 66 37 65

39 4I 03 20 29 IO 12

I7'50 55·28 27·87 28·87 06·38 11·30 49·24 I7'0I

alix,x 01pll,v alelglx,x 0 1pll

albelgv,xkollpilqn;i
alelgv,~J,vll,vlll,lx,xhl,llkoi,llpll,lv,vlqrw

04·I8 57"5 '-----------------"-----·----------'---'----alglx,xkollpllqr

c 2432 (; 2433 5883 5937 5988

I ·03

56
37 25

I

·04 ·03 '02 ·04

REPORT ·FUR 1893-PART

u.
t

455

[_=r
elgxolpllq
e.lgxolpllqr elgxhlplls

Authorities.
-

1t\'o.B.A.C.,, Mcan-N/-::-:··~---, etc. . . . 91 o. e
I
(,'
0

-,-

µ.

·
/I

, ----------·----- - - 5999 6052 6087 2494 6109 65 39 59 44 44 57 46 56 47 53 50 66 66 37 71 72 32 76 28 40 40 22
II

algvlli,lx,xkpll,vlqr

a'belg'·,x 0t,llpli,'"1qr7.v
alelgv,vl,vll,ix,x p11.vlt"'W

48 31 29 46 33 34 52 59 33 27 28 54 56 01 19 17 04 20 20

n 5o·53 0·03 35·14 ·02 05·32 ·05 03·05 ·12 37·14 ·05

+6·u8 --0·198 +0·007 --0·023 +0·058 +0·028 +0·062 o·co +0·008 -0·020 +0·005 -0·007 -+-0·001 ·-0'012 -0·106 +0·18 +0·064 +0·108 +0·005 -0·626 -0·626 --0·015 +0·025
~-0·245

L 33291

algxiolpllr e'g' f>"
aJe'it·HJ,lx,xfiiioipll,v,vlr
alt.lg··, vii,lx, x pll r-w

6162 L 33521 6203 6235 6268 6322 6341 6372 6397
L 35333

43·84 06·69 45·45 39·70 04·06 07·26 50·71 56·29 23·59 21 ·92 50·77 46·48 53·7 2 10·16 58·38 50·86

·05 ·04 ·08 ·02 ·05 ·03 ·03 ·03 ·03 ·04 ·05 ·03 ·01 ·09 ·02 ·03

aletgv1li,ix,x 0 Ipliqr

al,J gV. vlli,lx,xJ.pllqw alelgv,lx,xkpll,vlqw t1't·lg1x.x/01pilqrw alelgvlll,lx,x,(,ollpllq

g·hlplls
alelgv,vll,xhlolpllqrt
aicvUel, II gv, vi, vJJ, vJll,b:,x hJ,11 k111 0 1,JJ pil,i "" "Jf/1~·r

..~,lxz"olr

tfelg'iolp·iq } ,.
gxiolpll.vlq

649r, 6528 6555 6579 /, 36249 6603
L 36485

iolr (Rilrnker)
alelgvUl,ix,xJ..'}llr

alelg··vil,vlll.xhl,11.(·ol,lipll,v.vlqrw alelgvili.lx,x;..p11 1. aleig·,vll,x/11 01lp11i·t , elgvll,lx,x.(pllqr

6637 6734 6758 6824 6866 L 38237 6901 6924 6957 6983 G 3151 7067 7146 7149 7176 7194 7219 7306

40 07 40 20 63 56 40 DI 64 29

16·21 ·19 8·o 39· 47·57 0·03 52·26 ·01 i9·25 ·03 18·56 42·27 44·53 15·81 25·64 07·21 14 ·12 18·53 42·05 40·11 20·15 19·60 41·07 13'54 19·90 04·98 1:!'20 45 ·75 oo·So 38·67
·03 ·02 ·90 ·05 ·04

-0·014 +0·078 -0·007 +0·02 -0·081 -0·080 +0·045 +0·013 -0·030. +0·015 +0·019 +0·015 -o·r8:i -0·020 +0·012 +o·oor +0·026 +0·068 +0·020 o·oo

ail (Rilmkcr) alelg·lil,xk011pllqw g· hiolpvlqr alclgvill,lx,xkpllqr
f

37 67 70 70

17
II

33
61 42 44 59 74

17 19 58 38 37 33 59 32

ale!§·.Vil,lx/oipflr/

I ~1 1,lle~~·lf,lx.xhlpllrtw I

' nX/1lolplls

afg···l,vil,lx,x~·oillpll,vlqt<·

·04 ·03 ·05 ·03 ·06 ·02 ·04 ·06 ·14 ·06
·02

I aigXikolpl'<Jr

cvtlt~""· vi, vii, vJJl,Jx,

·"'It' l·ol1>11,Jv, vlqw

alelg·lll,kolipll,vlru·

iko'rw alelg·illolpll,vlr
algiK.xoflpllq alc·llcl,llgv,vi,vll,vlll,ix,xhl,llkmoi,llpll,lv,vlqrw afelg·llljkolpll,vlrw

74 28 29 53 59 40 44 49 44 16 60 60 46 57 66 14 13 30 51
II

allgxhiplls alelg4x.xkpllqrw

L 41026 7368 7402 .L 41554 7437

·01 ·05 ·05 ·04

--0·003

·-··-------

456

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Authorities.

INo. ~~~.c., \ Mean N.!'.D. 1891·0., ,·
--------··----·------- ----------------- - - 0

µ.'

·---II

I

II

g·!Uiolqr gl·olw
a1cvllelg·ll,xkp11qw al,llelg·lll,(jlllq

a1 eg·p11
alcVlltegVi,vii,viii,iX,X/Ji,iiJ.·11/0iipil,v,\'iqr71·1
I

7488 7508 7522 7547 [, 42627 7627 ! ./,42690 7643 7678 7720 7788 F 4151 7843 7906 7961 7997 8039 805r 8077 8097 8r25 8211 8229 L46607 8299
8310 L47167 8364 8372 8

38 19 84 84 70 64 70 33
IO

17 39 43 48 41
35 50 54 12 25

11 ·51 0·12 31 ·52 ·14 II ·82 ·05 58·95 ·08 04·48 ·07 15·46 44·26 17·70 37·21 4r·39 . 29·60 04''12 06·87 34·04 31 ·13 56·08 42·09 45·55 58·08 47·01 21 ·70 20·22 07·64 r4·73 06·47 25·81 10·99 29·34 15·87 38·40 24·92 06·84 55·99 16·42 34·83 3r·o4 44·30 ro·54 27·27 5 2 '39 10·88 r8·46 33·86 39·54 27·79

--0·072 +0·008 -0·018 +0·018 +o·ow +0·014 +0·005 +0·009
-O'OII

a11efgxhipi1 qs
afe~.vll,xhio1pll17 1 ·

I '02

qw e1glxo1 alcvelg·llikollpllqu alc·llelg·ll.xkpll, vlqw efgXhiplls
0 1eg·lll,lx,xkolipilqr 0 1eg·ll,vlii,lx,x01,iip11qr

·04 ·02 ·09 ·04 ·02 ·02 ·05 ·03 ·02 ·04 ·12 ·04 ·07 ·08 ·or ·14 ·02 ·02

94 84 19 57 46 34

·II

+0·063 +o·or8 +0·004 +0·023 +0·006 -0·034 -0·047 -o·oro +0·027 -0·034 +0·016 -0·038 -0·031 +0·016 +0·05 +0·054
+0·013 +0·03 +0·031 -0·033 +0·035

ag·li.xz'kolpilqr
aleJgvlll,lx,xoiipii,,·iq

I

45 47 59 17 40 48 22 ro 20 20 58 06 20 09 29 06 03 04
IO

i ·06

aleg·ll,vlll,1x,x 0ipuqw a·c·lle'g·ll,xhl,('Pll g·lll,lxj01q a1efg"lll,lx,xkp11q1w

69 I 23 I 81

a·e1g·lllo1pllr
aleg·lllpllr
etgv,vi,lii,vlli,lx,xhiio~ll,lv,vly7/I

I 41

23 62

allgxhls aleg·lll,lx,xhl,llpll.v,vlq

57 47 33 71 33 73 32 32 72 51 52 13 91 69 35 32 71 45 58 58 59 45 31 73

a·elgv. vlll.xh 1 01p11. v, vino gXhlqs
albelgv,vl,IX,Xoipll,vl'fli'

I ·08 ·03
;

a1 de·gt·o1pll,vlqw
a·egvlll,lx,x0i1pllq
a'eyvt,vilg-Vl,lx,xhiol,l~il,\'lq1"70

23 55 38 34 06 09 22 45 24 52 46 34 09 02 19 07

·06 ·04 ·02 ·02 ·02 ·05 ·05 ·04 ·03 ·03 ·04 ·02 ·04 ·12 ·03 ·03 ·05

ale!(·g·lll,lx,x~ll,vlqrw

alel!(vg··lx,xpll. vlqw
alcv,vneyv,vi,\'J~vlll,lxJ:ollpilq1111J

0 1e!(·lgvlilko11pllrw

52 67 I05 147 170
201 218 247 205 285 321 345 404 456 477.

+0·020 +0·038 +0·039 +o·o62 +0·037 +0·012 +0·482 +0·019 +0·036 +0-034 +0·047 +0·008 +0·012 +0·026 -0·022

a!(vg·kol,llpllqr
a1eJ,lyi-v,vlgv ,vl,vll,vlll,lx,x hloi.i~il .Iv, viqr111

0 1elJV··ig-·Ul,lx,xk01llpil,vlq

JVllgxofj)lq
0 1efjv, vi, v11g-1x,xhlpll r

Ic

I

alelJV· vlgvlll,xoflpllqr
0 1elg·111plir atelj·, v1gv11, viii, Ix, x0ipu. v1nv

I

a·belj'vg·,vl,·olpllr elJV· v11gv11, vlll,xo11p11qw

I
i

REPORT POR 1899-PART II.
·1 No. B.A.C., Mean etc.
N.P.D.

457
1891·0.

Authorities.

-------------··------eifvi~vll,vlll,lx,xpii,,·lw

1-1

I ,.

,,.,
II

---

·-

·----0

I

II

tzltlJ"g· ,ix,x ol,l 1pliq /' al, llel1gv, x io1pll
,_.vlle1J"·"llgix,xkp11qw a1 1.1'·,·l1gvlil,lx,xkt>l,ilpllqr

al/Jg·olp·l
~-=-~--:::::-:-.---.

500 515 588 6o9 644 653
B.A.C., etc.

74 08 29 59 25 54 78 14 67 52 36 40

50·83 Cl'OJ 55·50 '02 33·45 ·05 03·01 I ·04 18·15 I ·03 I 20·64 ·04

I
I

+0·021 +0·027 +0·028 +o·o'.16 +0·056 +0·055

---=':""--.---

.. - - - - .-_-----:--_--:-::--:-:-::--=·--.-.----.-.-.--:--:

)1can N.J>.D. i892·0.I

..·

,,.,

--·
0

I

II

II

alt!if" lg·ll, viii, Ix;,10 1,11p11. "· ,. lq,.
al,llel/v, vl

n':f'" vi, vllgvill 0 ilplltf1CJ ,s/'"· vii, vlll,lx,x 0 1,iipH, v, Yi tj?ll

alg·lilolpllq
/v,vl,vllg·volr

673 692 707 733 761
L 4752

39 26 64 43 70 35 33 52 51 20 53 09 63 24 41 13 52 07 52 06.
II 00 93 12 93 18 40 47 63 31

10·81 0·02 06·94 ·07 55·44 ·03 49·61 ·07 41·83 ·15 39·23 ·07 I I ·67 ·03 '' 43·65 ·02 34·95 ·03 10·70 ·03 31 ·86 49·12 28·08 59·45 02·96 46·34 54·44 40·37 48·62 19·90 01 ·79 02·44 16·12 15·70 49·52 42·63 30·83 56·71 12·10 19·61 14'35 51 ·28 28·95 II ·08 02·77 ·03 ·07 ·04 ·02 ·13 ·05 ·04 ·04 ·04 ·08 .02 ·02 ·02 ·06 ·07 ·03 ·05 ·03 ·04 ·02

+0·177 +0·070 +0·002 --0·005 +0·020 +0·033 +0·043 -t-0·097 +0·107 +0·086 -0·019 +0·072 +0·002 +0·082 -0·057 +0·008 +0·014 +0·019 +0·011 ---0·009 +0·003 -0·026 +0·029 -0·004 +0·046 -0·011 +0·074 +0·032 +0·023 +0·114

ailgxqw
albelJV.·1,vl1gv,xkp11,vlqr 0 1,llelgv,vl,Jx,xhl,llol,llpll,lv,vlqr alel.f"llgvll,vlll,lx 0 1.11p11,v1qrw alj\'1,vllg\'llJ,lx'.xkpll,vlqw
ale~"· vlgvl, viii, Ix, xhi,iiolpli. v, vlq 1u

813 827 871 888 896
L 5514

alljv!Kxkpllu
al,llc''llfvllK''lilpllqu
alel.lljvl, vii ...~rv, vll,XktJl,11 pii,h·, ,.lq l"'l(I

alel,llg·lilolllpllqrw

943 962 980 991 998 1045 1053 1065 1087 I II I 1138 G 740 L 7110 203 262 287 302 3 13 362 363 382 425 449
.-

/v gv,v11 lx,x 0 1

alj·.·llg"kpll
alcvll,.1/vllg"lll,lx,xkpllqw

ale:t"·lg·ll,lx,xkolilplltf10
alelgvlil,lx 0 tpuqr

I'

I

83 20 69 69 34

44 39 38 34

55

alclv,vlleyY·vl,Yilgv,vl,vH,vlll,lx,x/zl,llA·ui,llpll,l\·,vlqw

elgv,vll,vlll,tx,x;,t 0 ipll.v,vlno
al el.("gv 1 vt,vl1 1 vlll,lx,xpu,1,-, vlq rw

JV11gx 01p11 j·t.v11gx pll
nlelf"Igv. vii, viii, Ix, x 0 tpll alei.f",·ligvll,x 0 t,llp11qr
ale1j"v,Yl,vllgv 1 vll,x 0 lptt,vlqr7v
alelf"·"lgv,vll~lx,xkoll_flq

77 26 27 08 58 03 46 22 77 16 27 14 62 41 41 51 74 52 29 31

aldelJVllglx,x 0 1,llp11,v1qrw

ale':f·. vllg vtJ,lx,xpllq
at,.tf", vii g·Ul,x"ll pllq

I 68

67

alb g···/tolpll, v, ·lqr al,llbelf"g·lll.tx 0 tpll 1·
alclv,vlle1JY·vllgv,v1,vll,vlll,lx,xhl,llko1 1 llpll,v,\'lq1""ZV

57 02 36 19 37 08 67 15

·05 +o·o66 ·04 +0·063 ·02 I +0·011 ·05 +0·022 ·02 +0·021

-----------·

458

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Authorities.
No.B.A.C.,' etc. I Mean N.P.D . ·

-----alfvig1x.x 01,tlqw a'.fvl,.·iiiq alelJV, vl,vUgvll,x p11qw
aile'.f·,vl,~vlllol,llpll,vlqr

s9·:J <r
II

µ'

~\
I

I
1496 L 9261 1538 1554 1572 16oz
L 9902

0

I I

II

I

alelfvlgv,vl.vll,vili,lx,x pliqrw

15 88" 88 38 65 51 5z 52 32 71

53 3z z7 3z 52 38 40 42 51 29

56·4z 10·04 55·01 -60 08·z1 1 ·05 47·73 ·05 41 ·53 I ·05 38·98 zz· 58·36 z1 ·95
IZ'IZ

-0·030 I o·oo +0·010 +0·183 +0·025 +0·083 +0·012 +0·219 +0·014 ··i-0·004 +0·013 +0·039 +0·020 +o·ozz +0·024 +0·108 +0·090 +0·044 +0·045 +0·013 +0·008 -0·010 +0·05 +0·018 +0·018 -0·023 +0·013 -0·035 +0·06 +0·07z +0·017 +0·117 +0·046 +0·014 +0·033 +0·053 +0·029 +0·055 +0·114 +0·141 +0·040

alei_(Vl,vllgvlli,ix,xhi.H 0 1lpil.v,vlrw

I ·03
:9·0 :0·04 ' ·02 ·04 ·07 ·04 ·05
'II

(Weisse)
aiel/vllgvlU,lx,xpllr ale'.f·.·ll g·lll,lx,xoI,llpll,·lqr alclve'jvl,vltgv,vU,vHl,tx,x pnw alel/vlg··lx pl'w alc·lle'J"'··ll g·I, vU,vlll,xpl,11,lv ,vlq el'.fv,vlgvU,vlll,lx,x;01p11w alle'.f··vi, vii gv, vi, vllk pliw

1663 1705 1726 1734 1749 1751 18z1 1849 1867 1876 1887 1928 1952 1989 2009 zozo zo57 zogo
1,

elf· gv,vl,vll,lx,x 01p11r
al/VllgV,Vill,Xkpll,qw
alelJVi,vllgY 1 ofJ,vli,VUl1 1X,Xkoiipli,Vlqzv

71 3z 80 08 24 ZI 74 13 30 08 69 43 69 44 34 41 80 ZI 24 15 73 50 73 49 30 34 86 IO 69 43 34 18 z7 76 32 72 37 67 73 34

14·41 19-37 43·20 13·8z 13·59 35·94 40·3z zo·oz 1z·3z 40·46

·03 ·08 ·03 ·05. ·06 ·oz

alg·lll,lx,x 01pllr alc·llel·.f"'· vl'gvlllhlkpliqw alel jv.vlgv,lx,xhlol,llpll.v,vlq alle'f"··l,vllg·lllolllpll al elfv, vi gvlllkol,llpllq

a'be'.f· g"olpn, vi,- '
alelolll alc·lieiJV,·l,vllgv,vl,vll,vlll,lx,xhlollpll,vlqw

43·58 ·IO 26·61 ·09 57·44 ·03 55·7 I '4 1z·15 0·02 07·59 44·41 06·4z 47·88 00'0 ·15 ·28 ·oz
·11

a'e'f"lol,11,gxhlpll

0 1g1x,x01,ilpUqr a'e'f···'g·lllkpl'
alol

z107 <En6978 2143 2z30 z249 2z65

og
59 z7 18 07

·14

aielkq

24·76 0·30
·11

I ale!{ g;::}qr
ale'.f·.·lg·lll,xkpllw
a'e'.fv.·1,vllgvll,lx,xpll,vlq alcvlle'.f·l,vllgv,vl,vll,vill,lx,xkol,llpllw

z300
2313 2330 2362 z369 2376 2409 z431
G 1318

04(~.-:;)5z·o5
IZ

53

04·75 50·66 29·80 53·32 09·z7

·07 ·04 ·05 '12 ·oz '02 ·03 ·06 ·04 ·2z ·04

a'bp 01,11p11 albf· gix.x 01pll,vl b { gXkolpvlq } a'g"kolpll,vlq
alt.lfv, vi, vllgvlll,tx,xplir

73 39 30 40 30 33 39

38\:!'!!)58·81 33·07 49·96 53·z7 01 ·58 41·26

alg·,x 01pll alcl·c'J"l,vilg···ll,vlll,lx,x 01,llp11qrw

2493
G 1351

p.viig·olpllq ale'}" gvlll,lx,x 01pi1,v1,.

2532

64 44 41 35 62 51 41 37 39 18

REPORT FOR 1898-PAR'r II.
No.B.A.C., )lean N.P.D. 1892·0.1 etc. -----.--- ·--------------- I-----

459

Authorities.

·'

µ'

!
;
II

I
I

a lelj" 1 vllgv 1 vJ,vll,vlll,ix,x/.tllo~ll,h·,vlqrw
g v, vi, vii, viii, Ix, x h \, t1 0 yili: v, v lqu1

g Xkpvlq a 1f"1fv·"olpllrw a lel/v,vl vllgv vl,vi1,vlll,ix,x/zl,{·ol,lipll.vlq1t,
1 1

2551 2596 L 15522 2650 2744 2745 2759 2776 2810· 2816 2842 2876 2897 2902 2942 2982 3o33 3059 3069 3088 3150 3182 3194 3241 3265 3292 3308 3318 3352 3375 3456 3484 3490 3505 1635 3531 3561 3571 36o7 3633 3672 1697 3736 3757

0 65 15 88 32 72

I

//

20 47 35 25 01

36·94 0·04 40·47 ·02 05·63 ·09 4072 ·05 36·92 ·02 40·39 56·36 1470 57·34 54·00 14·39 23·38 11·24 54·15 56·04 o3·45 28·20 24·11 20·92 28·74 59·33 46·69 21 ·29 09·77 57·87 57·04 36·93 48·28 5675 28·12 56·97 21· 90 45·87 47·68 34·77 15·84 58·84 17·59 08·42 40·12
I

+0·067 +0·027 -0·02 +0·059 +0·126 +0·110 -0·001 -0·018 I +0·122 +0·155 +0·060 -0·097 +0·025 +0·006 +0·004

a iJVlgv,vi,vll,vlil,lx,xol,llpviqw a le~l,vllkq
a ft,ljV,vlgv,vl,vili 0 ip11.vlqr·w a lf'·gvlllkollpliq
al el/vl,vllgv.ix,xoilpli,viq1v al eljv gvli,Ylll,lx,x 0 1p11 al elf'g·lll,ix 01pll

72 01 71 59 31 55 72 27 72 35 24 24 79 80 76 27 56 47 61 61 42 39 64 54 49 29 36 58 02

·03 ·22 ·04 ·26 ·04 ·02 ·05 ·04 ·10 ·04 ·01 ·04 ·03

a leljvll gvll, vlll,xkpllqov a ljvgvlllf.pllw
11 lelgvll,vlll,lx,xJ.pliq
el/vgvlll,lx,x/1101,lipll~\'lq

I

I
'

SS
38 40 47 40 40 43 59 21 25 53

I -0·017
+0·079

el g'"lll, lx,x k _ptlq rw
elJVhgV V),Vil,Ylilhilol,llp\i,(\.·,viqr
1

j··,vl,vllgvlll,x!.-11111pllq /"·vii gvlll 01Hp1i

I +0·267 ·os +0·089 ·07 I +0·003
·os ·02 ·07 ·08 ·04 ·05 ·15 ·07 ·04 ·27 ·18 ·03 ·ol ·6o ·01 ·04 ·10 ·05 ·07 ·04
·04 ·09 ·04

eljvllgxkolpllqr bgix.x 01p11qrw f"llgvll,xk 0111p1Lqw el/vi, vii g·lllolipllq /' t''/vi, vllgx 01pH. vi r
l,vllgvill,lx,x 0 111pvt Lr

+0·006 -0·004 +0·002 +0·096 --0·010 +0·046 +0·026 +0·008 -0·014 -0·015 +0·072 +0·048 +0·003 +0·047 +0·085 +0·018 +0·035 +0·043 +0·016 -0·025 +0·022 +0·084 +0·058 -0·050

el.f'l,vllglx,xkqw ··l,vllgv,vlll,lx,xkolpllqr

lellf"l,vllz'kolllq Hqw elljvl, vii ,i;-vlll,lxipllq rw llgvlll,lx,xkpllqrw
elf",vl,vllgv,vl,vlll,lx,X/zl,ll,olpll,lv,VlqtW

69 12 35 08 69 18 49 51 54 30 57 51 58 02 57 59 46 32 46 24 23 53 80 39 23 49 49 01 55 21

I ·12
I

g·llolw
elg·lll,lx,x1z1,11 01p11. ·, ·lqw ,llel.f',vl,vllg··vli,vlll,xkolllplil/1''
~ gv,vl,lx 01qw

c

l/vlgvll,x/f.-vlpllqn<· lf"l,vllgvllikpllr l/v,vl,vll {
[s.r"olpl~·lqw

!

g·vlil,x

(

gv111,xkpilq \
, vii g·lllo11p11!{W
1/v,v~vllgvlll,lx,xkol,llpll, vlqi·

c

I

84 41(~:;!)09'59 14·80 19 34 19·94 55 23 35·25 48 59

I

460

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Authorities

! ... I"
1

0

·ct~. · ··

BA

c

'1

I ~lean N.!'.D. 1892'0. I
1

"'

! ! ___ "''__

alc'iv, vllel/v, vi, vll gv· vl,vlt, vlll,tx,x,klk 1n 0 1,H pU, v, vJ

--:-1 ;~-~:--:~-7~ ~~::1 +0·~36
3885 3915 3937 3953 3975 4050 4077 F 2015 4rn4 4122 4137 4143 4168 4222 4249 4247 4276 4292 4326 4339 4342 4384 4408 4415 4470 4506 4509 4540 4553 4566 G 2036 4640 L 25839 5043 F 2626 5126 L 28533 5181
F

qw e'.f·lgxpll
alel/·lgv,vll,x 01p11qr al elf'· vi g·lll,lx,xkpll. ·lqw ale':fv, vllgvll,lx,xpl!. vi alel/·lg·IU,lx 01p11,alcv,vlielfv,vl,vllgxkpli.vlqu1u ale'fv,vlgvll,vll1,lx,xhlolq1v

:~E,.11453
I

I

22 33 70 61

12 33 59 37

14·91 27·00 43·86 18·97 01 ·68 35·76 39·71 47·44 35·82 36·79 55·77 12·57 23·42 38·35 01 ·57 14·62 12·05 38·37 05·25 34·86 41 ·83 59·91 23·83 26·47 37·55 42·06 51 ·78 59·30 52 '99 I 1 ·64 24·90 33·73 13·20 25·55 04·16 51·00 22·18 27·41 27·00 23·31 42·76 47·88 21 ·59 12·75

·05 ·03 ·03 ·03 ·07 ·04 ·05 ·06 ·17 ·13

+0·030 --0·052 -0·013
+·O'OIO

alcvelJ"·v 1 gxkqu
alolpll,vlq

42 34 96 04 8 32 92 31 12 00 85 19
90

+0·046 -j-0·042 -+·0·033 +0·021 -0·09 +0·007

algv,lxkqw
algvl,vll,lx,x/olqw alelgv1vl,v1t,vill,tx 1xJ._. 1 nol,llpHquu1

20
II II

a lei Kvil, viU,tx, xoJ, Ii pilq alelgvlilkoilpll.·lqw
al~I g·ll, vlll,lx,x,,J,11p11qw

14 14 84 05 20 12 9 09 95 14 26 41 77 27
I 98
I

"~! t~:~:~ ·03 -0·011
II

·os ·03 ·03 ·04 ·02 ·04 ·15 ·03 ·03 ·05 ·06 ·03 ·06 ·02 ·38 ·03 ·so ·03 ·05 ·06 ·04 ·25 ·21 ·15 ·07 ·19 ·17 ·32 ·03 ·10 ·03

I -/-o ·067
+0·060 -0·001 +0·030 +0·019' +0·033 +0·047

alel,~ix,x 0 1q

alcvelgvll,vlll,lx,xhkollpllquw
alJgvll,v!U,lx,xhl,llolpU,v,vl alelgvlll,lx,xkpllq

I
!

cvqu alel & r· ' vi ' vJll ' Ix x,,J llpll vi qw
alelgv, vi, vlJJ,tx,x,hl 0 i,llpil, viq 1"

'

alclgv,vl,vll,·111,lxhtpli,vlqnv alel,i;v111,x 01pllr
alelgvlll,lx,xhlolpll.v,vlr

5 5 53 50

28 59 59 37 53

--0·0?5 -0·022

-0·005 --1-0·005 ·--0·034 +0·045 +0·020 -·0'11 +0·011 +0·07 +0·039 +0·021 -0 019 +0·098 +0·03 o·oo +0·038 +0·052 +0·019
-~-----

I

el,llgxhlikpllq
alelgvll,vlli,lx,xhloipll,v,vl'fW q(Ri!mker)

a·belgvl,x 01p11qr alqw
alelg·~ll,lx,xkp11rw

I

50 55 87 20 17 02 70 22 34 05

i

i

alelg·olpllq algxkpllqw alelgxhlpliq c·u plll,·l a·gvlllkp11 alelgxpll elio·pllr g" allellikq
gvl,lx,x,,ipi1,vlq

66 66 37 60 43 98 30 73 65 39

55 57 23 49 43 45 48 37 07 13

I

I~x

alg~, vii, vlll,xkolpll, vlqrw

2763 5507 5745 L 37106 6730

29 58 74 19 24 47 64 IO 40 00

+0·02 -0·033 +0·02 -0·027

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

461

The apparent places depend on the preceding mean places and proper motions and on the independent star numbers of the .American Ephemeris and Nautical Almanac for the respective year. It was thought sufficient to tabulate the individual results only, there being no novelty or special advan~age in publishing the detail of the record and reduction. The results are given in the order of time and separately for each of the eight groups, which extend over the calendar year. 'rhe connection of each group with that following is readily seen frqm the dates in t.he first column of the tabulation.

Results for latitude of astronomic station, Lafayette Park, San Francisco.
tp=37o 47' +tabular soconds.
PAIRS 01'' GROUP l.
2
I

.;:...
O')

~

3 48o8 4843

4

Date.

I
I

I

----·
6
502.J

5 4937 4953

I

7 5097 5120
-·

.
IL
I

8

9 5246 5285
---··

IO

I
i
-

II

12 5530

I

!
13 56<}2 14 L 31117

46¢ 4724

I

4783 4797

I

I
I

4863 4897

F 2677
28;16

I- - - i
28·44

5034

5348 5392

5459 5504

-

~~~-'~~I

I

I
~

1891. May 27 28 29 30 31

29·27 28·53

27·51 28·58 27·90

28·1I 29·44 28·02 28·92 28·25 28·00 28·49 28·05 29·6o 28·54 27·54 27·87 27·19 27·92 28·00 26·99

29·29 28·22 28·86 29·09 26·58 28·32 28·34 27·84 28·33 27·75 27·57 28·31 28·42 27·92 28·49 27·59 28·56

28·53 28·50

26·74 27·89

I

28·o6 29·03 29·05

\ 28·67

28·69 27·91 27·56 27·12 28·52 27·19 28·02
I

I
29·24 \ 28·36 28·44 29·32 28·47 27·81 28·53 28·32 27·56 28·20 28·52 27·98 26·91 27·73 27·86 27·85 28·18 27·70 27·86 29·00 27·6o 27·25 28·20 27·80

rtJ
i 28·261 27·95 27·8o 28·34 27·63 29·541 27·82
27·31 28·61 28·71 28·44 28·41 27·10 27·96 27·90 28·06 28·23 27·97 28·30 27·94 27·87 26·8o 28·57 28·01 28·84 27·51 29·03 27·6o 28·01 28·21 28·02 27·06 27·93 28·01

c
0
C1l
~

>

June

I

3

5
6 7

28·75 29·49 28·63 28·31 28·81 28·75 28·88 28·6o 28·52 28·03 29·13 I 28·59 I 28·06 I 28·44 28·59
1

I

I 29·65

28·99 29·34 28·47 28·99 29·30 28·20 28·73 27·74 28·22 28·84 29'09 27·68 28·93

27·39 28·78

29·81 28·61 28·98 30·01 29·63 29·47 29·38 28·58 29·75 29·57 28·31 28·32

27·96 28·29 28·08 28·18 28·38 27·87 28·47 28·16

28·81 28·68 28·52 1 28·45 28·96 I 29·04 28·13 29·49 28·27 29·38 29·40 29·25

I·

> z ~
0
l"l

0

8 12 13 14 17 18 19 20 21 22

!

28·85 29·09 29·16 28·39

.

27·721 27·84 27·97 27·95 ; 28·10 :

~ .... c

l"l

~

C1l

Cl

I I
I

27·8o 27·8o 27·82

28·61 29·01 29·1 I

!
28·49 29·46 28·76

21·15

I I

28·431 28·14

,,,,I
28·07 28·85

28·23

I

<I

~

><

t:i::I

f

I IJuly
I
I I

24 25 26 27 28 29 30
I
I

29·12 28·85 29·13 28·58 29·01

28·8o 28·54 28·52 27·65 29'45 29·17 28·68

28·04 28·63 29·26 27·33

27·61 27·70 27·73 28·88 27·82 28·64 28·57

28·19 I 29·26 29·64 I 29·78 30·25

i

27·85 28·38 29·11 28·67 29·20 29·o6 28·57

29·31 29·42 28·41 28·64 29·38 28·27 28·79

29·19 29·72 29·16 29·29

27·92 28·61 28·40 29·78 28·45 28·14

28·491 28·17

I

28·40 28·08 27·83 28·58

lI.

I

28·41 29·03

I

I I

28·12 28·95

28·99 ! 28·44 I 27·64

I
'

29·46 28·95 28·16 27·93 28·92 28·73
2 1·90

26·88 28·35 28·02 28·52 28·20 27"99

N. B.-The same dates refer also to Group I I.

~

"tl

t:rJ

0

~
~

0

~

!

....

~

~
......
~

0)

11>-

C>:I

Results for lat(tt1de of astronomic station, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continued.
<p=37° 47' +tabular seconds.
--1
2 I :

ij::o.
O')

ij::o.

I
3
5<)88 5999 6o52 6109

·

4
6o87

\------. ' 5 I
G 2494

PAIRS OF GROUP II.

.
!
I I
i

6

7

8
6322 6372 6341 6397

9
6496

10 , 6555

11 !--12
6579 6637 6734 _ 6758
I·----;,---

l-13

Date.

- - - - --

i G 2430
I

;

5821

G 2433

I '
j

1-i

,4 . 6901

5883 5937

·L 33291 .L 33521

!

i
:
I

:

6162

I

6235 6268

: 6203

L 35133 , 6528 ~,
----

1891. ' ! i 1 M ay27 I 28 28·41 28·45 29 28·91 29·13 30 29·54 29·88 31 28·59 28·79

,---

·---

- - ; - - ..--

- - ---- - - - - 28·33 28·64 29·39 29·40 29·40 28·97 28·34 27·54 27·64 27·19 27·47 27·08 26·97 28·24 28·65 28·18 28·84

I I

6824 6866

'L 38237

6924 _

29·26 28·35 28·70 29·01 28·13'

I

28·71 28·32 28·62 28·8o 28·26

27·42 28·10 28·17 27·64 27·74

· 28·52 28·19 28·82 27·67 28·17

i 28·35 28·12 ! 28·44 28·85 27·97 27·83 28·19 28·56 28·27 27·86

28·75 I 29·19: 27·6o 27·86 28·14 27·73 29·37 28·36
'I

I

''

---- -·----,- · - !

·

I

~
!'12
Q

'

28·52: 28·68 27·88 28·45 i 28·93 28·80 27·98 i 27·77 28·69 27·93 i 29·24 28·49 !

0

00' ~

>

June 1

29·73 29·08129·02.29·43 3 30·46 27·63: 28·13 28·o6 5 28·62 I 29·01 28·57 28·36 6 29·44: 28·84 27·78 27·85 7 I 27·85 28·81 28·83

27·68i28·39l27·99l29·04 27·68; 27·82 27·85 27·62 \ 28·59 28·51 27·37 28·44 29·68 27·55 28·46 29·08

i

28·59 28·15 : 27·95128·25 29·31 29·03 I' 28·78 27·62 / 28·55 , 28·21 27·84 28·95 27·98 28·30 I 28·01 28·82 28·76129·35 28·01 27·64 28·68 28·95 29·04 I 28·77 27·35 28·06 28·50' 28·97

>

~

i

28·78 27·19 27'56 28·25 l 28·04 28·27 27·70 28·13 27·97 28·23 28·14 28·21 29·08 i 29·01 ! 28·65 ~

0

trj

0 t:1
trj
Q

8 29·10; 28·57 27·92 12 28·90 28·68128·91 13 29·38, 29·34 28·81 14 28·63 28·34 28·65 17 , 29·63 '28·591

j

29·05126·96 ! 27·61 29·39 28·09 28·72: 28·54 28·77 28·34 29·21\27·93 29·43 28·33 27·63 I 27·21 28·78 27·51 28·47 28·90 28·59 28·19 I 27·72 28·97 27·38 28·60 28·76 28·22 27·70 I 27·66 28·68 27·88 28·36: 28·89 28·10 28·20 ! 28·16

I

27·77 28·77 28·63 28·62 26·93

181 19 20 21 I 22

: !· 29·11 28·75 127·98 27·71 28·23I28·59129·10128·83 28·43128·13 28·48 28·14 28·26 29·15 28·o6 28·34

~

I

,

·

28·52 i 27·291 27·16 27·14 26·91 26·41 28·21 28·07

!

28·13 28·95 28·03 28·26127·42 27·68 28·95 27·85 29·04128·43 28·15 28·70 27·43 28·03 27·88 27·94 28·04 27·75 I 27·46 28·01 28·o8128·45 29'02 29'52 28·24 28·17 28·25 29·69 28·41 28·67 28·86 28·91 28·10 J 28·22

i

28·23 28·49 27·43 28·81 129·05 28·27 27·29 28·43 29·02 28·47 28·44 28·56 28·71 29·46 28·65 27·33 28·15 29·19 27·73 27·40 27·63 28·35129·14

..., ....

I

CJ}

~ ~

I

28·32, 28·54 28·02 29·56 28·23128·13 28·00 27·99
:

28·86 28·o6 27·63 28·20

27·62 27·94 28·29 28·49

28·90 28·82, 28·15 28·37

28·40 28·14 29·55 28·73

:<

ti:!

<

26 27 28

28·49 28·84 29·14 28·8_8

I 28·89 27·40 I 28·39128·54 [ 28·661 ' l 29·90 28:88

I

27·55 28·38 28·66 28·63

28·48 28·90128·93 28·69 28·25 28·34 28·70 28·47128·22 28·78 28·73 28·11 28·87 29·32 28·45 28·01 29·43 29·30 28·35

i

I

I28·83129·36 28·22 28·85
I 28·93
29·14129·29 28·8o

29 30

('/)I
!l:J ti
ft-

July

I

4

.....

~

t:=l

5
6

28·62 28·52 29·51 27·69 30·62 28·48 28·26 28·86 29·83 29·64 29·26 29·21 28·72 28·74 29·96 29·44 29·24 28·73

29·05 29·18 27 "75 . 29 ·25 28·31 2rs.i 27·46 27·43 28·87 28·56 27·55 28·54 28·50 28·33 28·67 28·94 29·03 29·27 28·58 28·16 29·50 28·31 28·42 28·38 28:35 27·6g 28·29 28·75 27 ·35 27·66 27·50 27·16 27·58 27·50 26·82 27·32 27·54 27·76

1

28·64 28·70 27·78 28·39 28·65

29·43 · 28·04. 28·24 28·30. 28·56 I 29"01 · 28·50 28·49 28·52 28·77 28·41 27·96 28·33 27·82 28·77 28·08 28·27 28·04 28·58 28·65 28·23 28·24 27·71 27·16 27·52 27·11 27·32 28·19 28·58 28·73 28·56 28·00 28·33 28·10 28·71 29·07 28·68 28·52 28·49 28·64

28·90 28·98 28·57 28·78
1

7
9
IO II

I

27·64, 28·40 27·72I27·98127·9312j·97128·90127·99 129·20129·29 ! 127·68 28·85 27·6g 27·32 27·18 28·55 28·83 28·10 27·46 28·99 28·48.
I
6V VV

I

I

1 28·40 28·71
I

1

0

i ""'

28·08128·76 28·86128·13128·13 28·35 i 28·05 29·19129·66 28·05 ! 28·59 27·63 28·28 28·13 28·24 28·85 28·54, 28·23 28·85 28·43

I

12
14

I

28·26 28·26
"ti

17 18 19 20 21 23 24 25 30 31 Aug. 3 6

29·01 28·74 28·52 27·81 28·57 28·29 28·37 28·20 29·06 28·83 28·68 29·15 ! 28·27 I

28·07 28·41 28·46 28·62 27·82

29·39 28·40 28·05 28·71 28·67 30·35 29·09 28·16 28·89

28·25 28·00 28·39 28·88 28·70

27·70 27·94 28·38 28·56 28·07

28·07129·19 28·32 27·02 28·43 28·32 28·51 128·03 28·21 28·43

28·86 28·39 28·31 28·17 28·11

28·71 27·38 28·51 28·43 28·82

,. 28·51 27·98' 27·63 29·02 27 ·71 28·83 , 28·28 29·95 27·84 30·73

29·51 : 29·14 29·20 : 28·72 ~ 27·82 28·29 28·65 28·00 28·32 128·50

t'J

~

~
l'Zj

0

28·15 28·05 27·79 28·45 29·02 28·40. 28·14 27·14 27·73 28·21 I 28·11 28·68 28·10 27·37 28·~ I ! 28·9~ 29·05 28·46 27·19

I

I

I 28·61
28:68 28·36 29·00 28·81 29·15 28·21 28·32 28·22 28· 74 27·95 27·90 28·24 27·89

28·20 27·91 2p2 27·76 27·57 · 27·67 l 27·92 27·48, 27·75

I27·89

j 27·51 128·44 28·39 28·58 j 28·31 29·08 28·92 27·97 28·87
28·78 28·65 27·58 28·44 28·41 28·65

0

~

5

28·18 28·08 27·76 27·91 2&.·6o I 27·48 27·53 27·50 27·96. 28·51 \ 26·85 26·s4 21·46
I

.28·58 I27·6o I 28·83128·44
1

7 10
II

12 13

,,,, ,'~" ·'':'~ '1' ·.,, ,.

27"71: 28·14128·09 27·99 27·84 27·87

I
I

28·37 28·48 28·34 26·59, 28·57 28·65 28·34 27 ·99 27·83 28·25 28·71 29·03 27·69 27·71 28·29 27·44

I28·33 I28·55 I28·17
I
28·01 28·42 28·19 28·50

27·17 28·26 28·00 28·8o 27"87 28·98 28·64 26·93: 27·48 I 28·02129·04 28·78 27·82127·98 29·41 129·20 28·01 ! 28·23 28·82, 27·95 28·21 128·19 28·72 28·20 28·38 i 28·32
I

!

I

..... 00
to

cc

27·40 28·44 27·70 28·71 28·16 28·12 27·95 28·8s. 28·06

28·88 28·231

I
I

!""'

.....

~ ~

27·97 28·38 128·31 27·26

28·27 28·18 28·27 26·6o

26·76 27·29 27·54 28·05

,,.," ' 2'_1 '.' .,, ,, .:! ,, "I_''
1
1,

27·72 28·51 128·72 28·03 28·35 27·78 28·22 28·93 27·61 28·27 28·321j 28·36 29·12 28°12 28·48 27·78 28·65 I i28·54i 33 28·51 28·26127·81

I

I

1

28·54 28·47 27·13
~

- · · - - - _______ I ___ ;___ ._____.

N. 11.-Connection with Group I is from May 27 to July

inclusi,·e, and with Group III from July 4 to August 13, inclusive.

C1

a:i

Res11lts fo1· latif11de of astro110111io slatio11, Lafayette !'ark, San F1·a11.eisco-Continuecl.
<p

=37° 47' +tabular seconds.
P.1IRS OF GIWUP III.

0) 0)

~

-----i---1-----,-- ··--··,
I 2

!

3

Date.

1
I

I
I

.---------i-------,--·----·--·' -·---1·----,- .... -·-·;----,
7194
--~-

6957

G 3151

7149

'

75o6

6983 7o67 7176 i 7219 L 41026 · · - - - ' - - - - · - - - ___ I____ · ___ _
I

7368

7;02 L 41554

7437 7488

~ IL 42627 ;
7522 7547
!

I

9

'

IO

j

II

~

u

'.

13

I

14

'

?643

I

1891. July 4 5 6 7 9
IO
II

I
27·43 27·S8 27·99 27·52 28·91 27·17 28·17 27·77 28·97 28·53 28·70 29·10 28·68 28·63 28·08 28·51 28·41 28·00 28·28 28·15 28·24 28·78 28·36 28·07 27·53 28·92 29·02 28·24 27·75 28·67 28·94 28·54 28·79 27·91 28·56 28·65 27·46 28·04 27·92 27·90 28·67 28·15 28·39 28·63 28·54 28·36 27·31 2z·80 27·99 27·6o 28·34 27·86 28·27 28·47 28·02 28·34 27·98 28·82 27.70

7720 I F4151 i 7go6 ' 7997 8o51 --- ----.1--! --.---.
!

7678

I

7788

I

7843

!

7961

8o39

! i

~

i

28·96 29·22 28·6+ 28·40 29·04 28·99

i

rr.
("}

28·09 27·85 27·89 28·54 28·83 29·02 28·18 29·97 28·74

28·28 28·63 28·53 28·02 28·87 29·23

27·73 28·53 27·53 28·35 28·33 27·59 28·20 28·18 27·70 28·03

29·02 29·42 28·15 28·96 29·35 28·75

28·51 28·75 29·17 28·42

28·05 29·13 28·13 27·50

27·90 28·51 28·23

28·99 28·87 28·85

>
~

0

I
29·06 29·15 _29·87 29·15 28·72

12 14 17 18 19 20 21 23 24 25 30 31 Aug. 3

I 28·75 28·20

2r82 21·so 28·01 27·21 28·18 27·98

I 28·33 !
28·43

i 28·16
I 28·25
!
28·48 28·39 28·67

§
c;:i

>

!

2n6

28·351 28·51 28·04129·17 28·22 29·04 28 ·09 29 'O<)

29·68 I

0 ti
t:>J
~

t:>J

27·54 27·26 28·58

I 28·06 29·74
28·29
I

I
29·021 28·51 28·08 28·46 28·65 28·17

a

.........

rn c:::

I
28·70 127·50 28·52 28·04 28·19 I 27·70 28·74 29·36 27 ·91

-< t::l

~

~

27·61 28·67 27·74 27·74

28·74 28·31

28·64 27·64 27·38 27·68

28·18 28·10 29·28 28·46

28·55 29·06 27'55 2775

28·78 27·25 27·33 27·66

27·57128·91 28·05 27·94 29·51 28·10

28·46 28·81 28·63

I
J

28·49 27 ·77

I 28·03

27·761 28·77 ' 28·46 28·13 28·441· 28·66 27·33 ' 28·27 28·31

-1

I
I
f

6 7 10
I 1

s

27·65 27·91 27·82 27·83 28·46 27·64 28·29 27·54 27·37

28·29 28·88 28·48 28·18 27·43 27·35 27·25 27·63 27·35 26·54

27·83 28·39 28·03 2j"90
2~l-29

29·11 29"22 30·59 28·83 28·41 27·82 28·83 27·97 28·39 28·;8 28·6o 27·66 27·03 28·42 28·18 28·56 28·35 28·09 28·35 28·62 2j·96 28·74

I

28·36 28·61

I 27·61 27·83
27·36 27·47 27·6o 27·49 28·28 27·21 27·83 28·55 27·89 27·88 28·27 27·83

28·48 28·19 28·07 28·18 28·2j 27·99 28·27 27·81 28·85 28·34 27·86 27·62 28·82 28·31 28·34 27 ·97 26·15 28·73 28·01 27·78 27·8o 27·81 28·54 27·05

28·94 28·50 28·41 28·14 28·45 28·46 29·70 28·18

28·79 28·40 28·38

28·43 I 28·34 28·78 28·251 28·12 27·64 27·64

27·77 28·52 28·84 29·28

28·38 27·63 28·54 28·44 27'.94 27·28 27·19 28·13
I

28·49 27·78 27·69 28·27 28·o6 28·20 27·81 28·08 I 27·32 28·451 28·8o 28·20 I

27·31 28·49 28·43

28·441 I 28·30 28·23
I

27 ·86 : 27 ·88 28·03 27·59 27·53 27·88 27·8o 27 ·93 27·72 28·23 28·02 28·63 28·49 27·74 27 ·58 27 ·27 28·27 27·72 27·59 27·61 28·04

27·68 \ 28·07 28·37 27·52 I 28·491 28·16 28·65 28·29 28·07 28·38 28·!0 27·82 28·29 28·15 28·42 29·00 I 28·16 28·54 28·83 29·03 28·15 28·68 28·43 28·82 28·09 28·25 29·00
t".l
~ ~

12 13 15 16 17 20 21 221 31 Sept. 5
6 7 81 9
IO

27·63 28·24 28·26 28·04 2j·48 27·53 29·02 27·52 28·57 29·03 28·35 28·07 27·99 28·97

29·12 , 29·02 27·8o 27-cp 127·63 28·30 27·89

28·20 128·57 27·16 28·50 27·79 27·61 27·851 27·96

I

27·91 27·24

2876 28·32 28·02 28·40 28·55 27·91 26·94 28·02 27·70 28·40 27·86

28· 95

28· 55

I I

28·07 ' 27·43 28·02128·04 27·31 27·37

I

28·04 28·13 28·01 27·55 28·01 28·34 28·21

i
I

i

28·85 28·16 28·63 27·88

27·891 27·8o 28·92 \ 28·6o

I 27·36
27·43 I
J

I

28·12128·74 29·79 28·40 . 28·26 28·01 27·66

I
I

"d 0

8 0

I

'%j

27·83 27·23 27·93
~6·69

2p8 27·16

I
I

27"76 I 28·47 27·24 \ 27·77 27·85 27·91 ., 27·93 27·43 28·37 28·27 28·01 27·52 27·82

~

00
~ CQ

.....

I

12 15 16 18 19 20
22

I
'

I
1

27·51 ' 27·88 27·821 27"77 28·07 27·99

,

"d

I

28·24 27·95 27·48 28·66

27·69 ! 28·05

l

27·02 27·58 27·94

2879 28·46 2no .

27·81

27·96

I

28·12 28·66

28·30 ! 28·j(

''~~---'--~~'---~~N. B.-On an<l after August 15 the group connects "·ith Group IY.

~~:1_28·65 27?~-:~~~-l~~-_:.(~I-~~·~-'. 27·6~J_:~~o~I

I I

27·72 1 28·39 27·42 ' 28·38 27·55
1

I
I

28·15 28·32 28·26
! .

28·68 27·77 28·22
.

8

?>t:d

.....
!:""'

l

0:. -.:i

ti.:.

Re1111lls /01· latitude of asll'onomic station, Lafayette Park, San Fra11ciaco-Continucd.
<p

= 3i0 47' +tabular seconds.
PAIHS OF GROUP

O')

~

00

I 8o<}7 I/. 466o7 8310 ~3~_8}7~ Bus 8229 1 - - - -I ---- ---- ------- -----Date.
8211 8299

:

I

52

67

105 1'47

170 '20I

7-1--8--i.1
I
I
218
247

n·.

9
~
283 321 -

IO

Ji

I2

-~-l·-,-4588 ;

I
I

.

---·-29·42 29·13 29·09 28·28 29·47 28·40 28:00 27·93 28·31 28·29 27·94 26·22 27·94 26·67 27·91 27·97 27·60 28·03 ; 27·48
I

I -,---:-- ---------.--1-' .

345 404

456 477

I

500 515

6oc)

I

644 653

~

1891. Aug. 15 16 17 20 21 22 Sept. 5 6
31

27·85 28·46 28·25 28·40 28·47 27·84 28·32 28·49 27·97 27·43 27·64

28·36 28·87 29·22 29·00 27·96 28·86 28·83
I

27·97 27·6o 28·26 28·15 27·88 27·66 :17·50 28·02

27·84

28·20

28·23 28·84 28·96

28·20 27·76

I 28·81

28·66 29·02 28·76 28·43

29·14 1

I .

28·19

28·58 : 28·63 28·02

;

28·57 , 27·88 27·68 28·19

,

I
1

ri:
Q

28·29

0

28·16 ! 28·16 27'95 : 28·19 27·99 27·79 27·87 28·35

I
i

I

28·6o 28·47 28·56 : 21 ·84 28·47 28·41 29·81 28·76 28·67 29·1I 28·53 29·24

I

> l:'ll
~

28·85 28·26 ' 28·97 28·56 I 28·30 ; 28·21 28·71 28·24

28·48 ! 27·98 28·11 ' 28·37

~
ti
0
trj

I 28·57 ! 28·81
28·04 28·31

7
8 9
IO

i

28·36

28·56 28·72 28·72 28·07 28·46 28·76 28·37 28·17 28·54

29·17 29·00 28·86 28·83

I
I

28·11 27·92

28·03 ' 28·50

I 27 ·(i3

0 ti

12 15 16 18 19 20 22 28·87 28·1I 28·23 28·19

29·66 I 2 9'44 29·12 27·51 28·34 27·38 27·76 28·37 29·08 28·06 27·89 27·56 27·46

29·26 27·6o i 27·89 28·091 26·98 28·36 28·13

!
I

·"'3 .....
Q

t:J

I

28·53 ; 28·73 28·52 i 28·1I 28·27 i 29·021 27·84 28·45 28·55 28·54 28·57

28·18 27·97

I'

29·08 28·13

28·47 28·57

28·56 , 28·z1 27·66 27·51 27·671 27·81 27·92 ' 28·36

28·57 28·51 28·42

28·20 27·94 28·05

I
I

27·71 28·71 28·35 28·25

28·71 28·89 28·00

29·30 28·69 28·58 28·45

28·54 28·74 28·42 27·.82

28·75 28·65 28·05 28·82
i

27·49 27·96 27·81 27 ·58

:<

< tzj

~

l:'ll

28·26 I 27·6o

29·09 i 28·12

!

28·28

23 24 25 21 28
29 30 Oct. 1 2 3 4 5
IO

27·32
27·83 28·25 27·62 27·74 27·96 28·01 28·12 27·91 27·96 28·43 28·09 27·98 27·95 27·69 28·24 27·45 27·82

29·15 28·85 28·21 21·91 28·70 28·40 29·11 28·96 · 28·24 27·55 28·04 28·51 28·23 28·51 28·90 28·19 28·93 28·59

27·40 28·09 21·98 28·13 27·43 27·8o 27·40 28·35 27'39 28:23 27·79 28·03 26·98 28·27 27·77 28·54 28·52

28·21 28·25 27·46 21·81 27·45 27·86 28·15 27·86 27·99 27·74 27 ..52 27·56 27·58 28·38 26·92 28·24 27·75 28·27 28·50 27·87

28·19

28·26 29·13 28·30

28·54 28·45

28·03 28·o8 28·15 28·17 27·63 27·64 28·03 28·04 28·20

27·47 , 28·59 27·46 28·66
28·81 ,. 29·08 27·62 28·22 28·11 28·54 28·13 28·96 28·58 28·16 27·77 28·55 28·40 28·63 28·11 28·26 28·34 28·23 28·30

27·81 26·50 21·84 27·09 27·72 27·73 28·18 27·8o 28·07

27·96 27·07

'1

21·19 2'·61
28·74 28·16 28·40 27·79 28·16 27·97 27·65 27·81 27·71 28·29 27·37 28·73 28·66

21·92 28·68
28·35 29·26 28·88 29·07 28·70

' 27·61 27 ·95 27·75 ' 28·13

28·61 28·86

29·191 28·34 ., 28·85 28·68 27·84 28·33
I

28·05 27·77 2 ·82 7 27·71 27·41 27·77 28·o6 27·75 27·61 2 ·o6 9 2.8·8o 28·45 27·10
:;:d
[.:ij

I

28·69 12 779 28·22 28·65 28·29 28·49 29·24 28·63 29·00 28·46 Ii 28·661 28·99 , 29·23 1· 29·08 I
II

28·1 3 28·28 28·20 28·18 28·64 27·99 28·71 128·44 28·02 28·18 28·95 28·27
'

28·66 28·87 28·85

27·32 27·32 27·45 28·18 28·03 28·44 I 28·16 I 27·96: 27·40 , 27·19
1

27·82 27·89 27·81 28·46 28·41 28·16 28·35 28·11 27·47

27·90 27·99 28·35 28·30 28·18 28·48 27·80 28·32 28·03

II

16 17 21
24

I

i

28·72 27·90 II 28·22 27·81 29·05128·09 28·86 · 29·41 28·82 28·48 28·30 28·05 28·75 29·o6 28·38 27·36 29·49 28·90 28·17 28·99 28·47

28·45 28·31 28-07 27·18 28·61 ! 27·98 28·55 28·15 27·55 28·67 28·62 27·25 28·78

"d

I

I I

0

~

28·38, 28·23 27·85 2778 28·20 I 28·81

27·21 128·83 28·47 28·50 . 28·95 I

28·28 , 28·51

~
/x;
~

26

I

::

30

I 28·15 II 28·23
i

28·22 2j'97

28·721 29·18 28·551 28·96

28·531 28·41 I 27·61

I 27·84 I

28·08

\I

' 27·91
f

26·94

28·74

27·39
I
I

27·31

28·14.

~
......

~

- - - - - ' - - - - ' - - - - - ' - - - - - ' - - '- - - - ' - - - - - -

N.B.-From and after September 23 the group connects with Group\-_

~

o:i
~

~

470

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Reaults for latitude of astronomic slatio11, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continucrl.
<p= 370 47' +tabular seconds. PAIRS OF GIWUP Y.
,.-------c----·,.---~------·

···-------------,--------,-------,

Date.

I
I

1----i
1891 24 25 27 28
j Sept. 23

602

6;3 : 7:7 I 7:. 8:3 : '.---~·3 ·-i-I.-- _ _s·_
47
1

s:. : ~ I 9:2
1

_s_21_; _ _ s_ss_ _

L_s:'.· __ 9~~-1--~~/-~
28·62 28·81 27 ·70 27·71 28·49

I

~.

I

28·08 27·66 27·80 27·27 27·03 27·45 27·87 27·64 28·08 28·12 27·82 27·86

'I

28·24 28·81 28· 5 2 28· 39 28·01 28·31 28·28 27·84 28·62 27·75 28·15 28·35 29·21 28·18

I

27·581 28·77 27 ·79 I 28·33 26·45 27·39 28·41 27·99 28·12 28·74 27·19 27·57 27·63 28·40 28·33
r 1

29·11 28·47 29·33 30·06 28·55 28·73 28·18 28·64 28·26 27·66 28·97 28·98 28·06 28·58

i I

27·94 27· 94 28·47 28·11 28·34 28·56 28·65 27·53 28·19 28·23 28·16 27·47

28·45 ! 27·98 28·06 I 28·03 27·51 27·55 27·78 27·79 27·57 28·12 28·07 28·07 28·18 28·14 28·73 29·04 29·14 28·54 28·49 29·23

Oct.

1 2

3
4

I

28·55 28·68 28·49 28·99 28·88 28·87 28·21

I

5
IO
II

16 17 21 24 26 28 29 30 27·20

28·26

27·55 27·75 28·20 27·37 27·60 27·69

28·21 28·19 28·47 27·95 27·76 27 ·51 28·34 28· 18 28·10 27·55 28·26

28·06 28T2 28·22 27·68 27·43 27·81 27·92 28·16 28·20 28·25
I

Nov.

5
6 7 8 9
II

27·34 27·82 27'45

28·37 28·55 28·54

28·30 28·76

28·13 ' 28·01 28·60 28·72 28·75 29·05 27·92 28·43 28·18 28·21 29·67 28·72 28·98 28·96 28·14 28·38
2 1·54 28·10 28·02 28·68 27·98

28·02 ' 28·55 28·33 28·81 27·47 27·57 28·05 28·25

12 13 14 15 16 17 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 27·53 27·59 27·75 27·75 27 '21 27·38 27·48 27·67 '28·53 27·89 28·22 27·96 28·16 28·01 28·56 28·77

28·44 28·52 28·;i6 28·66 28·21 29·01 28·58 28·64 27·67 28·05 27·43 28·01 28·05 28·20 28·67

28·01 ' 28·08 27·09 i 28·17 27·48 i 28·08 27·83 I 27·68 29·03 29·15 27·42 27·99 27·85 28·12 27.47 27·45 28·23 28·34 28·18 28·56 29·09 28·07 27·75 28·29 27·96 27·96 28·10 28·42

27.77 ! 28·16 i 28·(,5 28·17 28·39 28·33 28·39 27·52 27·84 28·00 28·06 27·98 28·50 28·25 27·97
2n 1

27·79 27·07 27·38 27·40 27·83 27·20 28·15 28·20 28·05

28·48 28·05 27·68 27·92 28·36 27·86 28·14 27·94 28·22

I

28·83 28·13 28·01 27·90 28·29 28·32 28·15 28·28 28·63 28·57

Dec.

1

2*

· Lnst lloy of ol.lsorYatlonR with Zen. '!'el. No. 1.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

471

Results for latitude of astrono1itfo station, Lafayeite l'ai·k; 81111 FranciHco-Continue1l.
<p=37° 47' +tabular seconds.
PAIR1' OF GROUP V-Co1111>le'to11.
··-I:_1_1_5_
IO
1J

16
17

13
1302

I

18

1053 1065

1045

1087

! 1363
1 419

~_;'4..:...96_~
L 9261
1538

-·---1·---.
28·38 27·79 : 28·42 I 28·11 ! 28·44 i 28·22 I 28·36

I

I
I

Ill\

·1--·

1554 1572

28·77 28·49 28·98 28·86 28·49 28·09 28·53 28·86 28·50 28·69 28·34 29·30 28·77 28·56 28·59 29'17 29·51 29·46 28·97 29·51 30·09 29·67 29·46 29·55

28·15 28·37 28·05 27·76 27 ·82 27·49 26·92 27·66 27·96. 28·05 28·33: 27·24 27·65 28·56 27·94 ! 27·87 28·09 [ 28·07 27·46 27·88
i

26·51 27·47 27·33 27·52 28·29

27'77 27·97 I 28·14 28·20 27·74 I 28·42 27·44 27·32 27·27 27·85 27·441· 28·13 27·94 27·81 '. 27·63 28·15. 27·84 28·13 28·27 28·38 27·90 27·89 27·72 28·02. 28·26 28·24 ! 27·98 27·94 27·89 26·92 28·08 i 27·60 28·25 28·42 28·12 '28·06
I I I 28·26, 28·42 28·31

! 29·19

i

28·62 28·27 28·50 28·52

27·31 , 28·01 28·121 27·27 27·96 28·01 27·66128·43

i

28·72 27·99 28·49 28·52

28·35 28·17 28·48 28·18

27·82 28·28 28·13 27·70

28·58 27·79 27·67 27 ·78 27·55

26·81 28·06 27 ·93 27 ·02 28·22

i
I

29·30

29·8o

28·25 . 27·52128·10 28·31 28·83 28·71 28·21 28·55 28·6o
I

28·13 27·51 27·89 27 ·53 27 ·77 _28·05 27·82 27·72 27·89 27·88 1 . 27·35 27·62 28·43 29'!0 29·43 28·51
:

28·92 i 29·31 28·98 . 29·53 28·52 I 28·95

27 ·59 i 27 ·97 j 28·45 27·84 27 ·37 I 28 ·41 27·56127·72. 27·79 i 27·58 27·41 27·79
I . I

27'54 I 28·31 ! 27·98: 28·72 28·39 I 27·83 27'43' I 27,95 28·17 28·15 ; 28·00 27·6o 27'54: 26·34 ! 27·76 27·89 27·75 27 ·86 : 28·04 27·15 28·42 28·08 27·99 27 ·77 i 27 ·72 27·95 ! 28·04 27·89 I 27'33 27·20128·19 28·19 28·36 27·97 27·26' 28·02 28·45127·97 28·72: 27·87 28·13 1 27'72 I 28·57 28·56 28·30 27·88: 28·01 27·66 27·49 27·99 29·02 27·47 27·52

29·72 28·61 29'42 1 29·34 28·83 . 28·25 28·81 28·67 I 29·58

28·71 28·46 28·49 28·22 29·37

27·74 27·70 28·001· 27·50 27·31 I
I

27·86 28·35 27·83 27·60 2 1·85

28·93 29·69 27·87 29·10 28·66129·24 28·90 28·73 28· 7 1 ! 27·24: 2870 29·38 29·21 29 ·16 27·69

~::~~ ~ng ~~:~~ ~n~ 27·90 ~~::J 28·25 ~n~ 27·96 ~ni 28·43 ~n~ ~~:~ 28·72 27·85
28·43 28·48 28·27 28·19 28·47 28·44 27·86 28·07 27·71 27·72 27·84 27·92 27·00 27·59 27·96 28·13 27·71 26·55 27·32 27·31 26· 70 27·92

! 27·73 27·40 27·95 27·48 27·70
28·02 27·11 27·69 28·21 27·99 27 ·9 1 27 ·68 27·90 28·08 27·83 27·95 27·22 28·18 28·18 27·89 ·-·

I 29·86·--28_·_6_2 l~-6-·8_7__:~~~~~-----

28·46 28·78127·65 27·62 27·33 28·49 i 28·09 ! 28·65, 27·57 28·36 27·77. · 26·55 28·35 I 27·56

i ~~:;~ \: 27·98

27·78 28·21 28·25 27·81 27·72 21·99 28·26

f

-'--- ____2_1_·6_4__._____ _1__28-·4_0_1_2_8·_4_2

N. B.-From and after November 5 the group connects with Group VI.

Re811lt8 /01· latitude of astrorwmlo stalio11, Lafayette l'urk, Sau Fra11cisco-Contiuneu.
q>= 3ic

ij:>.
-;i

4i'

+ tabular seconds.
~
t887
·

I:..:>

PA.lRS OF GROL"P VI.
,

: I
198g 2020 200<)

S(a)

8(bl

Date.
1663

1002
~

L 9902

~
1734 IH6

17-19 1751

18:n

1928 '952

1.
1 I
1

2057

1

-,e49

I

I Nov. ~ I 7 I ~
II

I 1891.

: -1- - --:

i 2107 I ' .---1----1
IE.&ns ,

,~

~
~

28·63 28·71 28·19 28·38 28·67 28·85 28·09 28·61 28·31 27·97 28·29 28·00
29·22

28·18 27 ·57

;

2;·71

27 ·49
27·94 27 ·90 28·02 28·12 27·68 28·16 27·50 27·78 27·62 28·59 28·71 27·52 27-69 27·82 27-67 28"01 27-g3

27·67 27·17 27·94 27·71 28·23 28·21 28·15 2 7"93 28"04 27·49 28·06 28·13 28-61 28·52
I

27·78 27·65 27·39 27·96 28·22 27·56 27·10 27·91 27·82 27·93 28·02 26·81 27·72 28·27 27·68 28·13 27"35 27·o6 27·58 28"01 28·50

2j·68 27·97 27·97 27·56 27·61 '. 27·45 28·05 26·76 27·44 27·96 27·87 27·30 27·10 28·03 28·35 27·45 2r98 27·39 27"75
!

I
28·77 28·75 28·83 28·63 28·86 28·30 28·71 28·57 28·81 28·95 28·20 28·52 28·86 28·78 28·52 28·60 28·41 28·88 28·41 27·14 27·28 27·48
2i'2j

i

a
0
Ul

28·62 28"07 27·76
28·~9

I

::--

1-,J

12 13 14 15 16 17 19 20 21 22

28·51 28·37 28·41 28·18 28·31 28·03 27·93 28·18 28·16 28·13 28·12 28·13 28·19 2r61 27·68

27·21 27·4j 27·10 27·40 27"19 27·36 27·45 27·02 27·04 27·64 27·39 27·70 27·32 27·43 27·39

ti
0

~

0 t:
~ a

l=j

Ul

~

28·04 27·93 28·36 28·95 27·75 27·76 27·89

< t::::
:-<:

;:d

23
24 25 26

27·93 27"75 27·88 27·88 28·12

27 Dec. 1 2· 13t 16 171 19 20' 21 23 24 25 27

27·67 28·13 27·95

!
28·18

I I

27·96 28·08 28·07

27·82 28·46

27·88 27-63

28·19 28-01

I I
I

27·94 28·22 27·71
2 1·93

I

28·00 .1 27·81 29·14 27·19

27·62

2!1-18 28·37 27·54 27-07

I
i
I

I I

28-05 27·59 27·57 27·33 27·62 27·92 27·62 27·33 27·70 28·33 27·39 27·84 27·43 27·67 27·52 27·97 27·6g 27·75 27·46 27·74

28·35 27·88 27-g7

28·22 28·17 28·49 27·94 28·15 28·69 28·21 28·43 27·99 28·57 28·32 2871 28·62 28·66 28·o6 27"55 28·8o 29·18 29·78 29·u 29·38 28·31 28·15 28·71 28·48

I

i
28-og 27·89

27·97 27·50 27·77 28·22 27-g1 27·87 27·87 28·34

I i 27·34 I 27·83 27·35 27·76 27·47
27·76 27·78 27·99

I

28·24 28·81 28·53 28·65

I
I
I

I
28·85

I
I

27·26 27·66 28·47 27·85 27·62 27·79 2n8 28·02 28·u
t".1
~

i
28·94 29·05 27·29 28·49 28·76 28·63 28·41 28·86 28·71 28·46 29·10 28·24 28·88 28·70 28·75 28·84 30·28 28·90
I

28·92 28·71 28·74 27·42 28·62

I

I
i

I
i

27·91 28·29 27·94 28·56 28·25 28·23 28·04 28·02 : 28·54 28·58 28·0g 27·88 27·84 28·49

27·96 28·39 28·16 28·33 28·28 28·57 28·26 27·94 28·22 29·56 28·II 28·36 28·42 28·04 28·52 28·25 28·8g

I
I I

I
I
I
I

92. JO 'Jan. ~
IO
II

I
I
I

I

28·6g 29-02 28·66 28·78 27·73 '28·65

'

i

I
I

12 14 15 16 17 18 19
~o

I
I

I
2g."93 28·17 27"75 27·99 28·42
I

28·43 28·02 28·33 27·76 28·78 28·01 27·77 28-01 28·32

2r61
. 27·87 27·22 28·09 27·83 27·78 28-03

I I

I
I

0

"d
~

....,

I

27·45 28·36 28·02 28·14 27·62 27·;4 27·63 27·58 27·92 28·14 27·45

l'rj

0

~

I
I

00 <D

...
~ ....,

.....

28·69 28·34 29·04 28·88 28·73 28·72 28·98 29·12 29·10

~

I

21 22 23

27·79 I ___ l ______ I _

I
I
i
I ;

I

' 28·20 I 28·35
27·81

I
I

'I 28·34
i

I

i

27·85 27·73 28·15 27·92 27·51

I I

.... !:'"'

I

-----· ' - - ___________ _j_ -

------ ---·

'

28·87

· Last doy of observations with Zen. Tel. No. L

t First day of observations with Zen. Tel. Xo:3.

~ -:i

~

Ru11lts for latitude of astronomic elation, Lafayette Park, Saii Prnticisco-Continued.

-:i

~

<p=3P 47' +tabular seconds.
PAIRS OF· GROUP VI-Completed.

~

Date.

I

9
2143
2230

10
2249

I

II

2265

I

·JOO

l
1
I

12

I
2362

··--------~-------------

;

--17 18
~

13 2330
236g

14

15

16

2330

2313

2376

I

i

'

2362

2409
2.f]I

c 1318
2493

c 1351

2532 2551

I I
I I

25g6

2650

L 15522

1891. Nov. 5 6

!

:1
I

28·13

28·77 29·34 28·59 29·07 29·19 28·19 28·97 29·39 29·22 28·83 29·16 2872 29·15 29·02

28·55 2 7'99 28·01 28·84

27·87 I !

! i
;

I27·69 27·96 28·15 28·35 28·28 28·56 27·59 27·62 28·42 28·14 27·82 27·25 27·37 27·57 27·33 27·53 27'75 27·46 27·72

I
28·56

-!
28·o6 28·77 28·19 27·81 28·24 28·68 2 7·93 27·80 27·61 27·82 28·33 28·49 28·15 28·08 28·45 28·22 27·63 28·08 27·83 27·61 28·58 27·51 27·98 27·93 27·95 28·33 28·55 28·81 28·98 28·90 28·56 28'62 28·51 28·23 29·12 28·94 28·72 28·88 28·04 28·20 28·29 28·11 28·35

2744 ---·--·-

2759
I

!:l
r-i
0

I I 12

I 27·88 27·51
28·40 27·86 28·21 28·23 28·40 28·23 28·63 28·63 27·46 27'75 28·01

I
I

I

27·98 28·00

I

I

8·73

28·55 28·08 29·11 28·68 28·55 I 28·62 29·02 28·19 28·30 28·35 28·69 28·31 29·03 28·52 28·25

27·51 28·38 28·47 28·15 28·48 27·55 27·98 28·03 28·08 27·56 28·22 28·29 28·79 28·32 28·54

I

c
~

UJ

1-3

II>Q

i 28·71
27'56 28·61 27·81 27·85 27·98
:

~

13 14 15 16 17 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

27·36 I 28·11 i ' 27·91 28·28 28·37 28·27 28·23 27·99 28·00 27·82 27·81 ' 27·32 28·15

!
i i

0

t".l

I

!

:

i
i I

28·36 27·96 27·89 2n8 28·50 27·76 28·02 27·67 2r65 27·79

t".l ~ ......

tl

c

I

!

28·94 28·89 iI 27·25 29·26 I 28·70 29·12

I 28·47

I

I 28·03 28·08 I 27·53 i 27·80

< t".l
~

::0

C1

rn

28·46 27·69 28·43 28·39 28·14 28·37 28·61 . 28·45 28·39 1- 27·84

Dec. 271 1 27.54 2* 13tl 28·04 16 17 19 20 21 23 24 25 27 30 I 1892. \ Jan. 21 I 8
IO

29·42 28·50

28·14 27·89 28·81 29·38 28·70 28·55 28·88 28·75 28·70 28·32 28·39 28·6o
!

27·64 28·10

27·70 28·27 28·18 28·77 28·51 27·97 28·18 28·42 28·05 28·01

I I
28·43 28·59 28·36 28·35 28·45 28·57 28·78 29·01 28·55 28·65 28·75

27·67
;

27·29 27·66 27·75

I
I

28·62 28·08

28·74

i

27·78

I

I 29·35 I
28·43 28·36 29·o6 28·58 28·37
:

I

28·09 29·25

27·27 27·59 27·93 27·91 28·36 28·34 28·35 28·26 27·94 28·02 28·15 28·08 28·29 26·97 28·10 28·35 27·92

I 29·50 I
I

I
! i
I

I 29'47 I

29·23

I 28·40

28·83 28·8o 29·47 29·14 27·73 27·65 29·43

I

28·09 27·78 27·89 28·12 28·48 27·69

I 28·15

I
!

28·53 27·97 28·18 27·88 28·14

I
i
I

i

I
i

27·92 27·94 29·24 28·02 28·01 27·93 27·95 28·44 28·00 27'75 27·92 28·22 28·06 27·94 28·21 28·22 28·31 28·36 28·11 28·08

I

I 27·86 28·31 I 29·45 Ul·25

27·71 27·98 27·67 27·76 27·97 28·20 27"75 28·66 28·05 28·o6 28·05

28·76 29·13 29·02 28·97
"'Cl
~

. I

I

I

28·89

I
I

I 28·05 28·00
28·21 28·41 27·88 27·93 28·32 28·01 28·17 28·u 28·01 28·67

t.".I

~

i

0

28·46

29·31

"'3

l:j

II 12 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23

I
I

27·57 27·98 28·29

28·00 28·61 28·47

28·19 28·23 28·84

28·63 28·87 29·01 28·83 29·36

27·03 27·23 27·77 27·91 27·65 27"75 27·69 28·12 28·20 28·17 28·04
-----

I

0

\ 29·15
29·2(? 28·54 29·21 29·00 29·12 29·28
I

,,,. j
28·86 28·36 28·57 28·54 28·21 28·30

I

I I 28·02
I

28·84 28·84 28·57

29·07 29·46 28·81 29·29 29·00 28·92 29·24 28·49 28·86 28·85 28·90 28·13 28·72 29·05

~
00

....
c:.o

Cl)

27·12 . I 28·12 28·n 28·36 29·08

I
!

I

27·46 28·82 28·64 28·50 28·67
I
I

I 28·03
I
I
I

27·92

I

29"09 28·72 28·53 28·571 27·83 28·27 28·64 28·85 28·34

28·n 28·33 28·17

_I______ ,, ___ !

29·74

I

28·75

I
I

28·21 28·73 28·44 I 28·21 I 28·u 27·78

I 28·58 i
I
I
I

I

27"75 27·8o

I
!

I I

I

"d tp..

I

..... :---

~

I

28·12

28·93 28·73 28·47
--·-

28·33 I 27·96 29·15 I 28·38 28·03 28·37 27·96 i 28·18 I 28·14 I 27·90

I
I

I
I

29·181 29·38

' ----··-- · Last day of obRervations with Zen. Tel.No. 1.

-

'-

· - · ___ ,:_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___.!.._

I First day of ob·er\'ationR with Zen. Tel. Xo. 3.
~

N. B.-From and after December 17 the group connects with Group VII.

~

°'

ReBulls fo1· latitude of astronomic station, Lafayette Park, Sa11 Francisco-Continued.

~ -J

<p=37° 47' +tabular seconds.
PAIRS 01'' GROUP VII.

a:>

Date.

I
I

.:~
!
28·22 28·47 28·45 28·23 28·33 28·37
I
I

··-·
~~
2897 2842 ~ 2902
·--·,----1

,____
'1891. Dec. 17 19 20 21 23 24 25

~2816 ---------

29'42

2982

3o33 ,059
1 - - - · -·I

)069
3150

)088

3182 3194

3241

~292

3318 33o8

3265

~

I

rt"
27·89 27·88 27·47 28·17 28·50 28·07 28·01 28·40 28·20 27·81 27·99 28·34 27'75 28·64 28·79 28·75 28·72 28·6o 28·93 28·43 28·59 28·76 28·65 28·86 28·98 28·76 28·8o

28·13 28·34 28·55 28·22 28·12 28·17

28·72 28·11 28·31 28·61 28·05 28·03 28·18

I

28·60 28·04 28·31 28·89 28·10

28·06 28·20 28·49 28·37 28·14 27·99 28·36 28·14 2S·70 28·75 28·u 27·98 28·51 28·44 28·51

28·87 28·05 28·8o 28·26 28·08 27·95 28·15 28·6o 28·46 27·95 27·78 28·61 28·33 28·26 28·20 28·54

a
28·28 28·00 27·90 27·8o 27·96 28·14 28·90 29·u 28·69 28·59 28·75 8

!Jl

~

: 28·12

27 ·So I 27 ·93 28·34

~
0
r.:J

27
30 1892. Jan. 2 I

l 28·12

I

28·31

I

28·78

0 8 H

t:I

ti::!

8'
IO II

I 121
I

28·54 29·05 21!·44 28·53 29·30 28·6o 28·6o

I 28·64 28·98
28·25

a
c:::
~

28·78 28·37 27·96 28·25 28·37 28·27 28·08

28·36 28·41 28·30 28·05

28·33 27·81 28·40 28·36 28·45 28'JO

28·52 28·15
2~·50

28·30 28·72 28·77 28·57 28·60 28·20

!Jl

28·36 28·31 28·12 28·35 28·14 28·51

29·21 29·25 28·43 29·10 28·74 28·82

i
28·43 29·03 28·44 28·41

< t;:j
!<

~: I 16
17 18

28·50

I 28·36 28·41
. 28·38

I

28·54 28·49
~8·55

19 20 21 22 23 27 28 30 F b. I
"2

28·62 28·78 28·52 28·23 29·00 28·61 28·83 28·12 28·30 28·33 28·68 28·57

I

28·49 28·46 28·,18 28·51 28·85 28·26 28·62 28·18 28·07 28·20 28·75 28·57

r

28·64 28·63 28·30 28·04 28·22 28·32 27·89 28·31 28·03 27·92 27·99 28·25 28·21 28·41 27·99 28·6o 28·92 27·78

'

28·56 28·58 27·86 27 ·90 28·12 28·15 28·38 28·07 27·90 27·8o
!

28·22 28·52 28·61 28·72 28·20 28·13 28·38 28·18 28·68 28·33 28·36 28·65 28·71 28·02 29·32 28·44
I

27"77 28·38 28·51
I
I

26·74 28·41 28·19 28·34 28·18

28·13 28·63 28·16 28·48 28·16

2 7·95 27·78 28·43 28·15 27·86 28·33 28·19 28·06 27·94 28·29 28·34 28·10 28·36 28·6o 28·44 27·88 27·87 28·33 28·40
--------

27·76 28·52 28·52 28·20 28·76 28·55 28·87 28·15 2 1·99 28·29 29·03 28·02 28·44 28·40 28·51 28·23 27·91

28·16 28·52 28·64 28·38 28·52 28·29 28·41 28·43 28·35 28·43 28·34 28·60 28·53

I 28·70
I
28·71 28·84 29·25 29·23 28·47 29·13 27·72 28·57 28·87 29·05 28·61 28·68 29·24 28·96 28·30 28·97 28·69 29·40

28·09 28·23 28·25 28·55 28·09 28·31 28·45 28·26 28·14 28·46

28·62 28"97 28·73 28·76 28·86 28·89 29·22 28·25 28·52 28·77
!;:ti
'"d

I

28·46 28·20 28·43 28·15 28·48 27·99 28·6o 28·53 28·94 28·18 28·89 2 1·39

I I

28·03 28·43 27·89 28·41 28·15 28·18 28·37 28·64 28·27 28·04 28·58 28"JI 27·30 28·21 28·14 28·46

I

6 7 8 9 10
i

I I
I
I
I

28·15 28·27 28·63 28·38 27·97 28·28 27·97 28·21 27"78 28·61 28 .. 59 27·77 28·11 28·46 27·97 28·05

I !

t1I

28 \ Mar. 2 28·45 3 28·87 4 28·28 5 6 7 8 28·09 28·14

I
I

27·93 28·45 28·29 28·24 28·76 28·49 26·73

28·26 28·38 28·76 28·67 28·15 : 28·85

0

I

~

!;:ti
1-zj

I I 28·67
I

I i
!

28·91

I

! 28·51

I
I
!

27·87 2 1·93

I I

28·11 28·17

I 27·85 I 28·37
I

I
28·76 28·50

'

I

28·50 28·70

I

i

I

28·61 28·Ii 28·01 28·21

! 28·55

28· 16 28·28 28·39

i 29.10
28·67 28·95 28·73 29·17 . 28·77
----

~
QC

0

......

<C

<:<>

··-------

I

28·00 ! 28·46
--~-

I 28·46
27·93

I>
~

!;:ti

I ""

I

---~---- - - -

!""'

.....

~

-.)

-.)

Ra11lts for latitude of astronomic statio11, Lafayette l'ark, Sa11 Francisco-Continued. <p=37·) 47' +tabular seconds.
0

-;i

~

00

PAIRS OF G ROUP Vil-Completed.

I
Date.

I i

9 3352
3375

ro

I
II

.. 3484

J456

3490 3505

~484.

3456

3490 G 1635

~ 1 356

I I-_·.

13 36o7 3633

I
:'

!

..
367·

.

15 3736

I

.6
3788

G 1&,7

·-

t1-

3757

<E, u453

~
~

I

I

189I. Dec. 17 19 20 21 23

I
28·38 29·05 29·17 28·62 28·76 28·64 28·90 28·67 28·74 I 28·29 28·37 28·35 28·59
I

: I 28·03 28·52 28·72 27·96 28·07 28·15 28·6o 28·63 28·82 28·26 28·13 28·31 28·37 28·46 28·79 27·96 27·81 28·o8 28·36 28·51 28·50 28·41 28·36 28·14 28·11 28·45 28· .: 28·17 28·24 28·46 28·32 28·95

I

'

i
i

I
28·19 28·95 28·63 28·19 28·46 28·85 28·28

I

24 I 25 27 30 1892. Jan. 2 8
IO II

I I

9·27 8·39 8·25 9·03 28·23 29·06

29·08 27·90 27 ·83 28·40 27·95 28·42
i,

I ' I I
I

I
1·

28·36 28·26 28·66 28·07 28·31

I '

I

28·35 28·6o 28·75 28·20 28·28 28·23

28·65 28·96 28·09 28·22 28·44

~ >-'3
> z
ti
0 ti t.".l ....,

c

!
I

I

~

28·66 28·34 28·03 28·-16 28·50 2878 28·65 29·24

28·42 27'82 27·68 27"97 28·23 28·34 28·47 28·57
I

I
I
29·00 28·60 29·00 28·94 29·00 29·35 28·76 28·69 28·55 28·61 28·46 28·92
I

..... c
('ft

I I

12 14 15 16 17 18

i i

28·22 27·86 28·05 28·00 27·98 28·48

I
I

I

28·52 28·21 28·49 28·61 28·45 28·24

28·14 28·59 28·14 28·6o 28·82

28·82 28·55_ 28·62 28·25 28·50 28·6o

i

28·31 28·34 28·25 28·64 28·93

c::
tr:!

I I

!

<

~

I

!<

I

20 21 I 22 j 23 I 271 28 30
Feb.
I

19 (

29'01 27·97 29·21 29·47 28·67 28·75 28·81 29·24 29·07 28·73 28·89 28·66 29·6o 29·17 28·99 28·62 28·6g

i

'

29·07 28·54 29jb 28·75 28·69 28·85 28·84 29·21 28·87 28·87 28.. 95 28·31 28·87 29·o6 28·94 29·38 28·51 28·81

28·47 28·17 28·90 28·43 28·04 28·66 28·32 28·46 28·50

i
I

I
I

28·85
28·90 28·70 28·56 28·77 28·25 28·57 28·42 28·39 28·51 28·53 29·o6 28·89 28·57 28·93 28·78 28·51 28·69 29·o6 29·02 29·15 28·54 28·59

28·24 28·55 28·28 28·27 27·86 28·33 28·55 28·12 28·18 28·43 28·51 28·22 28·15 28·44 28·24 2 7·94 28·o6 28·75 28·15 28·42 2n8 28·25

28·69 28·27 29·o6 28·65 28·85 28·78 28·63 28·70 28·30

28·38 28·21 28·31 28·22 28·32 28·42 2r9r 28·43 27'99 28·59 28·32 28·28 27·85 28·o6 28·27 28·18 2r96 28·24

28·92 29·rr 28·62 28·74 29·85 28·32 28·43 28·36 28·42 28·50 28·37 28·83 28·61

28·43 28·59 28·23 28·24 28·77 28·94 28·48 2r88 28·3r

28·22 28·32 28·79 28·!0 28·52 28·26 28·32 28·16 2r85 28·28 28·37 28·80 28·53 28·72 28·70 28·56 28·53 28·29 28·64

I
I
I
l

28·49 28·55 28·34 28·21 28·36 28·53 28·39 28·63 28·62 28·39 28·40 2879 28·19 28·82 28·69 28·38
l':l
'"d 0
~ ~
~

I I
I

'

I I

J

2 6

I I
i
i

I

!

i

I I
I
i I

I

8 9
IO

7

~

i
I

I

I
!
i

28·38 28·64 28·38 28·17 29·02 28·66 28·77 28·51 28·90

I

28·20 27·96 28·22 28·73 28·36 29·08 27·99 28·27

28 Mar. 2 3 ; 4 I I 5
!

I I

I

28·40 2 7·77 28·24 28·6o 28·03 28·62 27·76 28·49

I
I

I
I
;

28·04 28·13 28·00 28·74 28·36 28·83 28·01 28·05

!

i

I

I

2876 27·95 28·55 28·65 28·64 28·86 28·08 27·59 28·34

~

I

!
I

i

I
I
I

6 7 8

;
I

I

28·53

28·43

I

28·23

28·22

I I

I
I

I I
I

29·00 28·41 28·71 28·30 2876

I
I
I
I
I

I I
I

0

~

.....
oc
<:.>
~

I
i I
i

28·12
I

27·95

i
1

~

II-~

'"d

I

28·62

28·12

28·35

! i

28·01

28'28

I

. 28·33
---

N. B.-From and after January 27 the group connects with Group VIII.

---

t"'

.....

c.o

~ -.:i

Reimlts for latitude of astron<»nic station, Lafa.yette Park, San Francisco-Continued.
<p

,j:>..

= :!7° 47' + tabular seconds.
PA.IRS
(ff

00

0

GROUl' VIII.
10

l
Date.

- - - ! - - - : ____ _

I

i

3885 3915

: ;

3937 3953

i

:

3975 4050

4077 F2015

410;
.p22

I I

II

4137
4143

4168
.pn2

4247
4249
1

4276 : ·292 ,
1

~
4339 '4342

..
4470
4-415

13 4509
4540
-

14
4553 4566 G:io36

I

.

5

4384

I
~
~

i

44o8

45o6

. - - ! . _ - - - - - - _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ _ _ _ 1 _ _ _: _ - - - - ' - - - ..

1892. Jan. 27 28 30 Feb. I 2 6 7 8 9
IO

I
29·14 29·04 28·48 28·52 28·55 28·73 28·30 28·38 28·51 28 ·67 28·75 28·97 28·22 28·66 28·72 28·35 27·96 27·90 27·76 27·79 27·78 27·70 27·78 27·90 27·85 27·78 27 ·92 27·81 27·82 28·24 28·12 27·74 27·48 28·35 28·78 28·69 28·34 28·56 28·81 28·73 28·63 28·27 28·38 28·23 28·47 28·76 28·33 28·14 28·56 28·47 28·77 28·81 28·70 28·28 28·46 28·51 28·90 28·90 28·26 28·55 ·2s·35 28·77 28·56 28·94 28'61

I 28·53 28·49
28·39 28·28 28·24 28·28 28·6o 28·07 28·23 28·31 28·35 28·65 28·22 28·61 28·63 28·64 '1 28·26 28·44 j 28·51

I
.

·--·---·

4:4° ' L 25839:

I

i I

.

- - - - !I

I
I

28 Mar. 2 3 4 5 6

i
:
j

28·28 ! 28·22 28·02 I 28·00 28·2 5 21·65 28 .. 12 I 28·58 27·81 28·19 1 27·98 i 28·21 28·28 : 27·77 27·96 , 28·06 28·09 28·79 27·72 28·25

I

28·29 I 28·45 28·41 28·55 2&·31 29·33 28·19 29·12 27·76 29·13 28·18 28·43 28·43 29·39 28·o8

28·33 28·5 3 28· 56 28·89 27·96 29·21 28·33 29·15 28·13 28·98128·1 I 28·34 28·30 28·96 28·52 29·05 28·59

I

28·50 28·41 27·98 28·24 28·03 28·52 28·39 28·94 28·86 28·51 28· 37 28·67 27·94 28·28

28·18 28·20 28·14 28·65 28·55 28·22

28·69 28·36 28·21 28·31 28·72 28·o6

27·89 28·59 28·70 28·00 28·13 28·10 I 28·22 27·97 27·58 28·09 28·32 28·32 27·77 28·09 28·32 28·20 28·14 28·32 28·19 29·06 28·05 28·44 28·S6 28·29 28·05 29·12 28·37 28·64 28·8o 28·70 28·52 28·37 28·37 28·42 28·27 28·17 28·05 28·32 28·45 28·57

27·45 28·53 28·31 28·61 28·14

0

c
;..:

~
!>-

~

:

7
8 12 15 22 23 24

28·43 , 29·02 28·11 t 28·92 28·18128·33 28·70 28·86 28·11 ' 28·86 28·26 28·46

28·48 28·04 28·39 28·41 28·78
I

I 28·16 ! 28·40 ! 28·83 28·53 I · 29·02
28·14 28·16 28·34 29·64 28·51 28·32 28·20 29·26 28·98 28·68 29·28 28·52 29·12

28. ·67128·45 28·42 28·91 28·45 I 28·52 28·37 28·70

0

g
;..;
t.:t:J

t.:t:J

28·89 28·78 29·88 29·30 28·34 29·04 28·55 29·62 29·35

28·43 28·20 28·57 28°!1 28·54

I 28·7 5 28·38

0
t.:t:J

~~

28·53

I

I 27·83
27·62

I 28·87
I

I

28·57 28·48 28·491 28·62 28·35 28·63 28·41

~

rs;

28·62 j 28·47 I 28·64

28·69 : 28·38128·42 28·39 28·68 I

28·31 28·54
I

I 28·90 I 28·65
I

' 28·87129·02 28·48 28·63
I
I:

I 28·25 28·28
I
1·

28·11 , 28·69

27·991 28·56 27·78 28·20
1'

28·43 , 28·37 .28·92 28·29 28·33 28·56 28·49 28·75 28·94 , 28·92 28·55 28·56 28·35 2870 28·56128·70 I 28·92 28·63 28·50 28·21

!<

28·52 28·67 28·52

1

I

l 27·92

! 28·50
I

1

28·58

28·12

28·00

27·91 28·31

28·20 28·00

28·62 28·34 28·74 28·69 21 ·92

?2
[rj

~

25129·01 27 29·21 29 28·64 30 31 28·65
Apr. 2 3 4 5 6

28·51 28·6o 27·94 27·32 27·92 28·76

29·75 28·11 28·46 28·84 29·03

28·55 28·82 29·33 29·07 29·38 28·99 28·59 28·98

28·77 28·37 29·53 28·69 28·07 28·63 28·75 28·23 28·84 28·57 28·77 28·72 28·55 28·34 27·93 27·88 28·57 28·20 28·12 28·37 27·84 27·99 28·50 28·29 28·36

28·30 28·70 28·24 28·52 27·71 26·76 28·64

28·6o 29·12 29·19 29·30 28·90 29·36 29·00

28·54 29·22 29·13 29·19 28·51 28·92 29·29

28·59 28·39 28·25 28·70 28·20 28·01 28:74 28·51 28·70 28·85 29·11

28·52 27·24 28·27

28·63 28·53 28·17

28·40 28·86
28·~2

28·.49 28·81 28·62 28·59 29·32

28·38 28·75 28·24 28·04 28·23 28·30 28·20 28·67 28·30 28·56 28·94 28·44 28·03 28·55 28·23 2878 28·68 28·81 28·40 28·15 28·33

10
"d !""

r
,.... "°

28·94 28·83 29·38

28·69 27·81

28·47 , 28·6o 28·19 28·52 21!-!1 28·12 29·51 29·03 28·79 29·12 28·55 28·61 28·90 28·51 28·16 28·92 28·45 28·22 28·78 28·43 28·6o 28·36 27·98 28·62 28·46 28·91 28·84 28·27 28·70 28·68 28·37 28·11

7 9
II

13 15 16 17 18 19 21 22 24 25 26 27 29 May 2 4 6 7

28·12 27·29 28·44 28·86 . 28·29 28·73 28·04 28·63 28·53 28·57 28·88 28·26 28·88 28·53 28·84 29·07 28·6o 28·48 28·19 28·73 28·27 28·16 28·70 28·34 28·30

28·66 28·59 28·33 28·52 28·52 28·41 28·8o 28·50 28·97 28·61 28·57 28·85

29·14 28·18 28·94 28·53 28·78 28·72 28·6o 29·04 28·.p 28·88 28·46 28·28 28·37 29·36

28·73 28·44 29·20 28·25 28·63 28·26 29·18 28·38 28·54 28·40 28·47 28·48 28·47 28·62 29·00

28·29 28·63 28·87 28·50 28·67 28·41 28·37 28·50 28·00 28·23

27.57 27·98

28·62 28·36

29·57 28·89

28·85

28·90 29·46 28·65 28·76 28·79 28·98 28·58 28·65 28·68 29·05 28·97 28·52

28·98 28·57 28·51 28·94 28·33 28·46 28·64 28·59 28·58 28·82 28·64 27·97 28·97 28·59 28·30 28·o6 28·72 28·16 28·28 28·49 28·33 28·68 28·56 29·17 29·35 28·62 27·87 28·52 28·56 28·09 27·87 28·13 28·29 27·59

~ '"d
0

~

28·17 28·13 28·73 28·49 28·03 28·6o 28·69 28·05 28·33

28·35 28·46 28·55 28·291 28·54 28·25 28·27 28·39 28·05

28·48 28·50 27·59 28·72 28·87 28·69 28·77 29·71

28·85 28·24 27·46 28·62 28·77 29·07 28·68 29·33

28·96 28·63 28·17 28·6o 28·46 28·51 28·42 27·89

~ 0 ::d

,....

28·74 28·50

~

00

!""'

1-C

28·05 29·03 29·32

27"94 28·63 28·86

'
:!\. B.-From and after March 6 the group connects with Group I, reobservcd.

.;:...
00
~

ReBultB for latitude. of astronomic statio11, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continued.
<p

tJ:io

= 37° 47' +tabular 1<econds.
5
4937 4953
7

t.:>

~

PAIRS 0:1" GROUP I, REOBSERYED.
I

Date.

46¢
4724

I.
I

2

3

4
4863 4897

4783 4797

I

·-·--·-

I 4843 I ----48o8

~

7 (bis)
/, 28533
5181

----...
5043
5120

F2626
51'?6

~"J_7·--~
5120 5126

1892. Mar. 6 7 8 12 15 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 29 30 31 Apr. 2 3 4 5 6 7 9
II

~ fl.l

29·16 28·51

28·85 28·79 29·08

28·42 28·32 28·31 27·13 28·24 28·38 28·00 28·29 28·46 28·98 28·04 28·35 28·55

27·97 2 7'73 28·31 27·8o 28·50 2 7·75 27·90

28·55 28·13 28·87

29·G3

28·02

28·28

28·68

c

> Ul
~

0

29·92 30·03 28·57 28·40 28·17 28·!0 28·44 28·08 28·62 28·59 28·39 28·28 28·50 28·51 28·49 28·14 28·6o 28·43 28·17 28·62 28·65 28·62 28·18

28·12 28·72 28·50 28·58 27·84 28-39 28·41 28·79 28·13

29·16 29·03 29·13 28·72 28·65 28·81 28·86 29·12 28·85 28·64 29·02

I

29·32 29·04 29·43 28·79 29·19 29·21 29·49 29·40 29·42 29·14 29·35

z

11>-

ti

I

28·83 28·41 28·99 28·42 28·89 28·64

29·74 29·83

0 ti
t,:z:j
~

0 to:::

I

c

......

29·46 29·47 29'43 29·32

I
28·47 28·38 28·40

q

r:JJ
~
~

28·41 28·72 29·03

28·08 28·07 27·58 27·75

29·13 28·40 28·16 28·75

ltj

I

28·53 28·6o 28·27

~

28·63 29·02 28·68

29·o6 28·94 28·8o

13 15

I

28·59 28·58 28·31

28·47 28·05 28·39

28·46 28·76 28·82

29·37

28·72 28·65 28·70

29·00 28·93

28·86 29·01 28·72

I

28·74

I
I
May

r7 r8 r9 2r

161
I

28·39 28·43 28·51 28·9r 28·33 28·33 28·83 28·49 28·51

28·95 28'47 28·48 28·82 28·78
28·39 28·20 29·04 28·26

28·48 27·50 27·94 28·44 28·r7 28·36 28·24 27·95

i
I

I

28·46 28·33 27·78 27·97 27·85 27·52 27·86 27·32 28·25 28·87 28·28 28·61 28·11

28·42 28.71 28·47 28·68 28·8o 28·58 28·4r 28·05

28·86 28·9r 28·88 28·95 28·62 28·89 29·o6 28·66 29·04 28·96

I

29·95 29·74

28·47 27·99 28·05 28·56 28·74 28·20 28·6o 28·36

28·43 28·03 27·98 28·77 28·6o 28·42 28·40 28·24 28·42 28·45 28·28 27·93 28·76 28·04 28·09 28·59 28·38

29·75
29·57 29·51 29·98 29·58 29·81 29·55

28·68 28·73 28·36 27·95 28·77 28·23 28·86 28·34 28·65 28·77 28·36 28·94 2878 28·24 28·54 28·36 28·08 28·85 29·42 28·20 28·33 28·44 28·56 28·64 28·75 28·57 29·08 28·84 28·67 28·86

28·64

:z8·86
28·40 28·23 28·70 28·44 28·75 28·54 28·45 28·61 2878 28·73 28-_)5 28·78 28·56 28·01 28·97 29·42 28·12 28·39 2874

28·98 29·03 29·r2 28·89 29·24 28·90 28·79 29·56 28·43 29·r2 29·08 28·95 29·08 29·01 29·32 28·82 28·86 28·69 29·00 28·67 28·74 .29·18 29·o6 28·79 29·03 29·09 29·11 29·30 2 9'33
00
~

22 24 25 26 27 29 2 4 6 7 8 10
II

29·10 28·56 28·35 28·28 28·46 28·66 27·8o 28·39
~8·64

29·29 28·51 28·64 28·70 28·38 29·03 28·71 29·01 28·47 28·37 28·13 28·96 28·54 28·09 28·38 28·39 28·32 28·77 28·54 28·58 28·95

29·43 29·47 29·32 28·77 29·50 29·01 29·09 28·97 28·67 29·10 28·75 29·13 29·01 28·88 29'39 29·19 28·61 29·r6 28·51 29·14

30·11 30·29 29·59 29·40 29·90 30·13
~9·66

t:<:l "d

~

0

28·46 28·21 28·08 27·99 28·76 28·10 28·o6 28·27 28·62

12 13 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 28 29 30 31

I

29·16 28·99 28·62 28·43 28·97 28·82 28·87 28·74 28·50 28·08 . 28·33 28·6o 28·45 28·87 28·77

28·04 27·81 28·26 28·71 28·19 28·28 28·25 27·99 28·30 28·70 27·94 28·26 28·07 28·28 28·48 28·16 28·48 28·11 27·84 27·96 27·42 27·86 28·18 28·24 27·83 27·59 27'76 28·08 28·01 27·30 28·28

....,
0
~

~

29·86 29·56 29·33 30·17 29·46 29·13 29·96 29·78 29·8o 29·61

!
.... !""

"'

oo·

......

28·71 28·87 29·12 28·65 28·78 28·86 28·66 28·08

s

.

28·30

27·70 28·52 28·05 28·65

27·92 27·96 28·11 28·63

28·51 28·68 28·79

June

I

2 4

29·19 28·28 28·73 28·85

5

~

Ruults f<>r latitude of astro11omic station, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continued.
<p =

ij:>.

37° 47'

+ tabular seconds.
-12 F2763 553° 5507 5574 13 14

00

ij:>.

PAIRS OF GROUPS I REOBSERVED-Completed.

Date.

F2677

I

10 5246 5285

II

L 28716 I _, _ _ _!

I
'
I

5348 5392

~

5459

56<]2 5575 5740 5745

L 311°17
5790

5504

5507

5504

~

1892

!12
28·64 28·24 28·41 28·28 28·72 28·6o 27·65 28·6o 28·52 28·14

Mar. 6

c
0
Ul

7 8
12 15 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 29 30 31

>
~

I

28·15
28·63 28·88 28·45 28·62 28·35 28·6o 28·49 28·77 28·86

28·98 28·83 28·70 28·51 29·05 29·13 28·6o 28·83 28·66 27·81 28·78

I

28·42 28·41 28·84 28·40 28·35 28·18 28·6o 28·94 28·62 28·64

28·85 28·28 28·73 29·20 28·41 29·2; 29·35 28·89 28·42 28·94 28·23 28·65 29·02 28·61 28·56 28·58 28·48

29·26 28·74 29·05 29·08 28·87 29·14 29·6o 29·01 28·8o 29·08 28·18 29·15 29·14 28·99 28·74 28·54 29·00

28·43 27·81 27·49 28·12 28·54 27·46 27·96 27·86 27·56 28·25

28·30 28·35 28·51 27·99 28·34 27·52 27·92 28·38 28·59 28·41 28·57 28·41 28·30 28·91 28·77

28·12 28·11 28·31

28·05 27·90 27·90 28·14 28·12

> z
t:!
t:z:1

0
0

t:!
t:z:1

~ ......

c

28·47 28·52 28·36 28·61 28·29

27·83 28·19 27·87 27·89 28·09

rr.

Apr.

2

3
4 6

:<

< t:z:1

=c

~

5

7
9
13 II

15

I

28·76 28·82

2871 28·88 28·92

28·50 28·63 28·38

28·8o 28·67

29·08 28·61

29·23 28·76

29·52 28·68

28·01 27·fr/ 27·82

28·37 28·67

28·46 28·56

28·17 27·91

IO

17 18 19 21 22 24 25 26 27 29 May 2 4 6 7 8
IO
II

28·S8 28·73 28·55 28·39 29·01 28·82 28·61

28·49 28·6o 28·34 27·95 28·77 28·42 28·89 28·38 28·65 28·82 28·07 28·76 28·82 28·47 28·8o 29·00 28·52 28·42 28·68 28·59 28·37 28·34 28·64 28·50 28·38 28·56 28·42 28·39 28·63 28·92

28·42 28·87 28·46 28·23 28·94 28·82 28·92 28·45 28·65 29·13 28·50 28·51 28·93 28·76 28·83 28·61 2lS·26 28·15 28·79 28·98 28·53 28·68 28·84 28·83 28:95 28·79 28·64 28·42 28·57 29·11

28·73 28·65 28·6o 28·55 28·39 28·8o 28·88 28·8o

I

29·01 28·89 28·61 28·97 28·85 29·02 28·8o 28·99

29·12 29·o8 28·77 28·97 2')"00 29·07 29·04 29·18 28·95

29·43 29·o6 29·04 29·6o

27·6o 28·05 2 7·97 28·14 27·65 27·91 27·81 27·81 27·82 27·99 27·91 27·76 27·69 27·95 27·68 28·36 27·92 28·21 27·51 27·68 27·87 28·05 27·94 27·39 27·94 28·34 27·38 28·31 27·71 28·33 27·49 27·52 28·01 28·o6 27:88 27·78 27·88 27·77

2s·18
28·90 28·68 28·74 28·86 28·50 28·73 28·59 28·62 28·22 28·81 29·37 28·61 28·48 28·81

28·73 28·61 29·05 28·83 28·68 28·48 28·69 28·50 28·43 28·73 28·66 29·53 28·69 28·95 28·93 29·02 28·84 27·97 28·92

I

I I

29·15 29·18 29·14 29·17 29·31 28·92 29·30 29·25 28·90 28·93 28·81 29·33 28·57 29·02 29·04 29·13 29·11 29·12 29·10 29·75 29·21 28·96

28·13 28·39 28·55 28·46 29·00 28·66 28·78 28·43 28·8o 28·30 28·52 28·73 28·56 28·09 28·43 28·33 28·17 28·52 28·74 28·55 28·51 28·85 28·35 28·70 28·86. 28·27 28·45 28·36 28·51

27·91 28·31 28·35 28·33 29·68 28·45 28·33 28·47 28·61

27·89 28·08 27·93 27·89 28·29 27·89 27·61 27·92 27·49
l'=J '1:l

28·63 28·73 28·93 28·90 28·48 28·57 28·64. 28·78 28·54 28·70 28·50

I

29·56 28·87 29·11 29.21 28·90 28·89 28·61 28·93 2S·75

t:d

I

28·1)9 28·62 28·09 28·65 27·93 27·93 28·25 28·50 28·00 28·14 28·8o 28·15 28·6o 28·22 28·27 28·00 28·66

28·o8 27·45 28·30 28·52 28·57 28·36 27·54 28·01 28·53 28·17 27·92 27·90

0

>-3

l:i:l

12 13 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 28 29 30
I

6 =o

.
co °"

!
~
!""

I

28·83 28·91 29·05 28·90 28·78 28·86

29·09 29·57 28·67 28·65 29·77

I

28·42 28·36 28·05 28·o8 28·o6 28·3j 27·98

......

June

I

28·58 28·54 28·13 28·6o 28·6o 28·94 N. B.-From and after May 10 the group connects with Group II, reobserved.

2 4 5

°'

00

~

Rllllults for latitude of astronomio station, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continued.
<p

= 37°

00

~

47' +tabular seconds.

O')

PAIRS OF GROUP II, REOBSJ.;RVED.

Date.

I
,.
G 2432

l

2 5883 5988

3

.
5999 6109
··---

4 6o87

5

.6 /, 33521 li2o3

5821

~

G 2433

5937

6o52

G 2494

_1 ____ 6~62

I
I

/, 33291

i I
I
:

7

!

.8 6322 6341 ~-------6372

6235 6268

s
[/l

1892. :May IO
II

I
28·8o 28·36 29·02 28·96 28·49 28·34 28·49 28·54 28·42 28·66 28·90 28·75

12 13 rs r6 17 r8 19 20 21 28 29 30 31 June
I

28·51 28·58 28·47 28·42 28·88 28·07 29·13 28·51 28·43

28·63 28·00 28·73 28·62 28·08 28·69 28·64 28·w

I
I
i
I

I

I

i

28·55 28·41 28·58 28·48 28·16 28·42 28·51 27·89 28·22 27·92 28·21 28·13 28·46 27·90 27·8o 27·76 28·32 28·46

28·21 27·98 27·6o 27·99 28·08 27·83 28·rr 28·16 27·32 27·47 27·95 27·68 27·74

I

28·64 28·52 28·92 28·74 28·70 28·76 28·66 28·84 28·38 28·53 28·86 28·90 28·58 28·45 28·8o 28·70 28·69 28·55

28·71 28·59 28·33 28·31 28·88 28·43 28·63 28·70 28·51 28·58 28·16 28·69 28·73 28·72 29·03 28·26 28·09 28·19 28·26

28·40 28·13 28·49 28·24 28·53 28·46 28·38 28·39 27·89 28·33 28·21 28·34 28·29 28·23 28·40 27·93 28·56

'

28·28 28·58 28·63 28·40 29·01 28·56 28·56 28·27 28·81 28·30 28·44 28·08 28·65 29·17 28·51 28·56 28·29 28·35

28·18 28·48 28·36 28·56 2873 28·50 27·83 28·46 28·55 27·97 28·10 28·87 29·46 28'48 28·40 28·07 28·29

c 0 > Ul
ti
t:i:l

>-3

~

29·02 28·90 28·94 29·16 28·75 29·02 28·82 28·83 28·59 28·33 28·77 28·67 29·09

I

C}

I

0 ti
Q

t:<:I >-3 ......

28·52 28·46 28·22 28·57 27·91 28·37 28·52 28·82

28·55 28·62 28·59 28·37 28·44 28·09 28·54 28·47 28·70

27·82 28·29 28·23 28·62 28·28 28·02 28·00 28·28

Ul

d ::ti

28·63 27·94 27·89 27·76 28·16 27·76

< t'l

:<

2 4 5 July 29

I

I

28·10

Aug.

30 2 3 4 8
9 10
II

28·69 27·32

28·69 28·10 28·73

28·29 28·69 28·34 28·26 28·56

28·04

I

28·30 28·58 28·02

28·26 27·75 28·43 28·45 28·03 28·48 28·15 28·15 28·04 28·22 27·86 28·18 28·28

27·54 28·09 28·05 28·23 27·83 27·85 27"75 27·6o 27·88 27·82

I
28·36

28·35 28·88 29·26 28·77 28·50

28·58 28·14 28·68 28·85 28·50 28·37

I I I

28·23 27·87 28·49 27·99 28·29 27·56 28·59 28·04 28·35 28·27 28·75 28·16 27·80 28·04

28·64 28·11 28·19 28·46

28·37 28·38 27·90 28·09 28·84 28·26

12 14 15 16 17 181 19

29·05 28·79 28·31 28·46 29·70 28·93 28·8o

28·92 28·21 27·63
I

28·81 27·86 28·6o 28·19 28·56 27·81 28·o6 28·28

28·50 28·17 28·08 28·37 27·91 27·70 28·22 27·89

28·68 28·21 28·40 28·03 28·13 28·49 28·38 28·36

28·72 28·41 28·44 27·86 28·.:7 28·10 28·72 28·71

28·77 28·10 27·94 28·33 28·39 28·51 28·13

28·76 28·02 28·44 28·40 28·72 28·20 28·65 27·90
~

i

I

"28·96

I

I

I

27·70 27·17 28·05

'

0

t.-:1 '"d

I

I I

I

t-3 0

~

lrj

~
~

.....

00

co

> ~
t-3

'"d

I

.....
!:""'

00 -.:i

.i:-.

Results for latitude of a&tronomic station, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continued.

q>=370 47' +tabular seconds.
l'AIBS OF GROUP.II, REOBSERVED-Complet-0d.
9
JO

00 00

~

Date.
----·

~3~
64¢

Jt ---------..

,.
6730

13
6824

14

6528 6555

6579 ~ 6637 L 36249

L 36483 M3_7__ L )6249

~
6758

L 38237

6866

~

69<>1

6924

I

I

1

I

·-----

~
~

I

1----1
28·86 28·95 28·65 28·85 28·45 28·98 28·36 28·79 28·92 28·68 29·22 28·8o 29·04 28·50 28·42 28·58 28·52 28·18 28·61 28·27 27·89 28·13 28·39 28·18 27·82 28·34 28·38 28·35 28·01 29·11 28·98 28·94 29·18 28·97 29·o6 28·73 29·19 29·20 28·64 29·1 I 29·12 29·08 28·73 29·01 28·93

1892.
May
IO II

12 13

28·88 28·69 28·98 28·92 29·02 28·67 28·66 28·85 28·37 28·93 28·65 28·77 28·68 28·90 28·86 28·68 29·18 28·67 29·01

28·81 28·70 28·78 28·95 28·85 28·68 28·62 29·16 28·65 28·96 28·37 28·70 28·82 28·61 28·52 28·58 28·90 28·38 28·86

28·93 28·56 28·26 28·61 28·69 28·61 28·10 28·67 28·52 28·35 28·20 28·8o 28·73 28·91 28·68 28·27 28·77

28·47 28·42 28·18 28·49 27·65 28·30 27·99 28·41 28·31 28·14 28·42 28·26 28·69 28·86 28·42 28·48 28·67

27·92 27·99 28·13 27·65 28·17 27·74 28·12 28·04 27·33 28·09 28·20 28·6o 28·01 28·04 27·96 27·97

28·20 28·38 28·95 28·46 28·04 28·62 28·99 28·33 29·22 28·37 28'28

28·44 28·76 28·67 29·17 28·02 2872 28·59 29·30 28·45 28·65 28·42 28·37 28·55 28·05 28·06 28·56

0

Ul ~

11--

0

:: I 17
18
19 20 21 28 29 30 31 June
1 2

ti

~

0 l".l 0 ti l".l ....;
0
r:Jl

....
~

c::=

:<

t;:l

27'99 28·56

4

July 29

5

30 Aug.
2

8·76

8·8 ;.:0·09 28·54 28·61 28·85 29·27 28·78 28·20
2~·76

27·92 28·74 27·79 28·42 28·78 28·41 28·44 29·22 28·67 28·91 28·78 28·31 28·30

20·~

8·o8

8 21!>"07
27·82 28·74 28·34

8 30·3is
30·53 30·69 30·36

30·35 29·48 30·6o

8 2is·ss
29·25 28·17 28·09

8 2is·47
28·26 28·16 28·65 28·73 28·61 28·85 29·10 28·89 28·63 28·59 28·47 28·58

28·44 28·08 28·16 28·17 27·89 27"78 . 28·25 28·31 28·13 27·66 28·00

29·16 28·93 28·81 28·88 28·76 28·99 29·01 28·79

3 4 8 9 10
II

28·87 28·50 28·42 27·75 28·33 27·6o 27·91 28·92 28·49 27'90 28·21 27·73

12 14 15 16 17 18 19

28·54 27·85 27·77 28·36 28·10 27·77 28·12

30·61 29·82 30·08 30·75 29·83 30·36 30·20 29'95

30·81 30·04 29·93 30·19 30·45 ,30"25 30·12

28·56 28·00 28·44 28·50 27·99

28·33 28·47 28·91 28·65 28·38 28·13 28·53 28·58

28·6.1 29·22 28·43 28·38 29·05

'

I

28·8o 28·63 29·02

tr.l "O

~

I

0

>-3
P>j

~

0
C\. B.-From and after July 30 Group II c~nnects with <;roup III, reohsetved.

...
~

~

00

!""

....

I ~ >-3

c.o

00 """ c:c

ReBuliB for latit11de of aBtronomic Btation, Lafayette Park, San Francisco-Continued.
<P = 37° 47 1

+ tabular seconds.
I
8
7 7437
:

0

c.o

~

PAIRS 01·' GROUP III, REOBSER>ED.

I
i

I

I

2

3

4

Date.

6')57 6')83

.G3·51

I_
1892. IJuly 30 I ~
Aug.

-----·I
27·8o 128·26 27 ·95 27 ·97 28·13 28·45 28·30 28·34 28·07 27·90 28·26 28·26 27·50 28·15 28·42

7o67

--;~

71.6

7149

5
7194 7219

II

73o6
/.41026

6 1402

~-75'.'8_~
7522

I 1. 42621
76B

9

I
i

10

"
7788 F.4151

7678
7720

!
.

I

13

I

14

7843

7¢11~
7997

1------·'-· ·-·'·-·
7368
/.41554

°7488

75H

7900

8o51

~
[12

/ 28·92 I 28·39 ! 28·71
28·37 , 28·6o 28·88 28·48 28·51 28·63 28·58

28·2 3

I 28·25 I 28·05 I 28·50
28·38 28·11 28·59 2lS·68 27·65 28·67 28·46 28·41 28·86 28·68 29·04 28·91 29·26 28·70 28·83 28·63 28·87 28·95

27·91 28·13 28·02 28·27 28·33 28·31 28·51 28·30 28·lS5 28·02 27·94 28·55

27·90 28·00 27·94 28·02 28·36 27·88 28·38 28·15 28·61 28·06 27·85 28·64

28·44 27·85 28·09 28·18 28·06 28·12 28·03

29·01 28·92 28·42

28·49

i 28·00

28·32 I '29·00 28·16128'75 28·54 28·18

0
U1

0

4 8 9 10
11

28·531 28·15 28·16

28·69127·85 28·19 28·30

8

"'"
z "' " t:;)
0

12 14 15 16 17 18 19
:,...__

28·40 28·65 28·44 28·461 28·'6 27·53 28·15 28·47
_:_

I
I

28·37 28·84 28·05 28·49 28·27 28·16 27·85

28·801· 28·25128·14 28·61 28·48 28·34 28·14 28·07 28·6o 29·06 29·05 28·87 28·91 27·99 28·55 28·16 28·17 27·70 28·74 27·90

i 28·96128·57
28·71 28·22 28·61

i 28·23
27·8o 28·27 27·6o 28·68 27·71

I

28·38 28·27 28·18 28·38 , 28·32 28·11 28·53 28·17 28·23 28·13 27·70

28·15 28·70 28·52 28·15 28·43 28·38 28·63 28·85 28·27 28·44 28·71 28·8o 28·93 28·68 28·04 28·99 28·76 28·57 28·21

i:':l 0

28·~7

I 28·24
_:_

27"i7
28·77 28·51

__ __
_:_

X. B.-Groups II and III, reobserved, are connected on the above elates.

____ __

: I -'---------------·--------·---------------'-------'

27·961 29·05 28·13 28·59 27·50 : 28·62 27·57128·19 27 ·97 28·17

28·64 28·48 28·19 27·85 28·40

0

t1 M 8 .....

U1
~

1:1

:::::

:<

M

REPORf FOR 1893-PART II.

491

COMilINATION OF THE PlmCEDING imSULTS FOR VARIATION OF L.A.TI'l'UDE.

The methocl of combination must be such as not to interfere with any change in latitude that may be indicated by tlie observations, no matt~r what the character of the change may be. To secure this the same method was followed as had been used in the case of Berlin, Rockville, Waikiki, and other places. The groups had been selected by the observer; but they differ from the groups at other stations in thes(l respects: They contain a great many more pairs; they include doublets and triplets an<l other combinations, and when the same group is reobserved at the expiration of a year additional pairs or combinations of pairs are introduced. This greatly added to the labor of reduction, and demamled a deviation from the method of selecting for each group all the full series only from which to form the mean latitude of each pair iu order to reduce the star places to a uniform system of declination. \Vere we to depend only on the complete series in a group tu efiect this re<luction, their number would be so small as to defeat the object in view. ln fact, there is a group (VI) in which there is not a single night iu which all the pairs belonging to the group were observed. The observations on each night are much more liable to occasional omissions of pairs than with a few pairs only to a group, and thus the number of complete iseries falls below a desired number. In order to increase the number of nights and values from which to reduce the group mean I ha"Ye admitted all series iu which but ai single omission (of a pair) occurred, atl(l have supplied tlte corresponding siugle value by temporary interpolation of a value, namely, the mean of the precediug aud the followiug observed latitude of t.he pair invoh·ed. In this way very full and fair group means were obtained. In the exceptional case of there being an omission at the beginning or at the end of the observed values of a pair, the two nearest (in time) results were used for the interpolation. In eases of doublets and triplets the values received the weights two-thirds and one-half, respectively. There were, however, a great many pairs which, on iwcouut of the brokeu or disadvantageously distributed charactei· of the observations, could not be admitted directly into the group mean. Tims in Group I there are 10 such pairs. 'rhe reduction to the group declination system for these pairs was effected as follows: Bach value of one of the pairs was directly compared with the mean reduced value deduced from all the group pairs observed on the respe~tive day, and the dilforences so obtaine<l from all the days of observations for that pair famished the reduction to the group system.

492

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

'.rhe following table contains the number of pairs of stars and of series from which resulted the group mean:
, I
I

Group.

Pairs. , Series .. Seconds of

group mean.

Total number o{ observations in group.

I II III IV VI VII VIII
I

v

14 17 16 17 21 19 23 18
i

37 53 27 21 15 16 23 14

I

28·42 28·42 28·28 28·24 28·u 28·17 28·44 28·47

278 and 924 771 " 627 528 " 192 497 682 811 789 669

i

The resulting reductions to the values for latitude by each pair of stars, in order to refer the group results to a uniform system, are as follows:
,-----------·-------;,
Group I. Pair. Group II.

r
I

Group Ill.

I Reduction.
II

.

-i---I
I
Pair. -1I Reduction.

I_Pair. ! Reduction. -~a-ir_. I Reduction.

Jf~--1
II

P

Group IV.

2

3 4

61
8
9

5

t :~i
+
·54 ·08 ·34
·20

+ "20

:!~ I !·
~~
5 6 7 81 82 31

=:~~
t :;~
I + + ·os
- "01 + ·22 + "03

//

I
1

73

·oo ·3.? ·35

1

10 111
121
131

8,
1b
II

So 6 7

t

3o

~

+ :;~ + ·34 + ·14
-

-

+:~~
·46 ·14 ·03

II

!!

I[
I

"04

lj;

~:
4·

31

~

+ :~~
-

;
1 1

11

+ :~~
·03 + ·39

·oo
1·

14

=:;~ !i2 . =:~i
10 111 I

~:

+ ·22

S.

-

12

I

;~ 1
I

=:~~ :i
11

+

+

~ "09 :~~
·28

·35 5 - ·46 6 + ·23 7 I .oo 8 - ·24 10
II

t

+

:t~

"41

/i
i1

~~

+:~~
+

-

~ :H

·03 ·49

Exlrai

I
II

pairs. 6, 71

11,
II4

7, 74 76

113

I I '----------·----"'------"----'------''----'---~--'

122 132

-1·23 +0·16 +0·16 -0·10 -0·57 -0·29 --0·50 --0·61 +0·61 +0·09

Extra pairs. 11
4·
112

II

l~:i~~--~-111-3 I 14~ -0·15 -0·30

I

121

141

-0·37 +0·02 +0·42 -1·87 -1·78 +0·02 +0·35

I·
I

I
I
I

I
I

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

493
7

Group V.

'l___::oup Pair.

V~- -i
i
II

Group VII. _ // ___ G_rou_r_'_'I_n_._ Pair.

-

Pair.

I Reduction.
II

1-------.-1
I
1·

Reduction.

i

0

Reductio11. :1 Pair.

.

I Reduction.
II

I 2 3 4 5 61 6, 7 8 91 92 10
II

12 13 14 15 16 171 17. 18

+ '49 I - ·42 + ·44 - ·04 I - ·34 -- ·2 7 + ·15 + ·04 - ·18 - ·49 ! --1'10 I - '34 + '54 + ·18 -f '23 + '12 + ·06 + '20 - ·38 + ·45 + ·20

s.
9
IO
II

11 2· 3 4 51 5· 6 71

121 122 151 15. 16 17 181

·07 I '21 . ·02 ·50 ·09 ·3 1 ·23 - ·55 + ·66 + '20 ·96 '10 + 'II + ·13 + '24 + ·17 - ·05 ! - ·31 - ·34 + + + +

+

It 12 21 22 3 4 51 5· 6 7 81 82 9 101
IO,

I
1·

II

:

-

'10
'00

I

-

I

I'
I

!; Extra
lo

111 112 121 12· 13 14 15 r6

+ ·18 +· '20 + ·26 + ·22 + ·33 + '07 + ·13 - ·33 + '23 - '34 - '40 - ·25 + 'I:? - ·14 + ·25 - '20 + ·17 - ·17 + ·04 ·02 - ·02

I
! 'I Ii
1

2

3
4

+
-

'09 '47
'00

I

6

5
7

8 9 101
IOo
lit
1

-

+ + + +

·23 '09 ·16 ·17 ·29
'22

11, 12 13 141 14. 15

-

++
+ +

·53 ·42 ·04 ·05 ·04 '21 '44 ·15 ·24

+

I

pairs.

-~~89 J! pa·::·
+o·o3 -0·48 +0·89 -0·18 - 0 '55 +0·36 -0·47
2.

lifatm
//

I
I

10:1 110

I

-0·03 +0·09 +0·15 +0·24

; .
1·

These corrections to the results by each pair and for each group were next applied, forming a new general table of values for latitude, and referring to a uniform declination system in each group.· The probable error of observation of a single result for latitude may nbw be deduced by comparing on any one day e:wh value with tho daily mean of all values within the group. Let these differences be L1 1 L1 2 L/ 3 ······ then the probable error of observation

where n = whole number of observations or LJ's, and ni the Bnmber of means or nights involved. Taking at random about 100 values in each
·This table remains iu ::\IS.

494
group~

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

we get the following

re~ults

for e0 separately for the two inst.ru-

men ts:

Date

!June, 1891, July, 1891

l--1-------Group No. of diff's. Prob. error e0
I

~

July.,~

I
l

Aug., 1891 S ep t., I 8 91 lfOct.,} l~ , I 8 91 Nov.,1891 0\., Sept.;

- - - · - ---··--

·----------

1 105

I
j

II

..

!05

III II2
±0·26
II

IV 102
II

v
IOO
//

VI IIO
II

I ::1::o'-'38

::l::o~J6

- - · - ... _ _ _ _ _ _ 1_____

J____ ···-·· - Average for Zenith Telescope No. 1 from 634 values :::!:: 0"·28 .

l

::1::0·25

::1::0·24

::1::0·19

Date

I
I
1

Jan., 1892 <,Feb, ,'1\Iar.,
1

Ivan, ~18921{~ar.,
:

-

..

:\fay, 1892 {1uly,}1892 Aug.,1892 Aug., pr., }1892
----··-

i------

I
VI
IOO

Group No. of diff's. Prob. error e0

I

v II
IO 8

I

!,

::1::~~21 I

I

VIII 106
/I

11
119 ::1::0·18
I/

II1
I II
/I

1--~~I

::1::o'·19
-···

I

::1::0·17

::1::0·19

'--------'-----·---·--·

-

I

I I

99
/I

::1::0·19

Average for Zenith Telescope No. 1 from 643 values e.,

= ::!::0"·19.

These numbers, besides giving a general idea of the accuracy of the observations, plainly show the superiority of the second instrument over the first, which is due to the improvements mentioned. in detail on a preceding page.

REPORT FOR 1898-PART II.

495

Tabulation of the daily mean 'l.'alues after their reducti01i to the mean declination system of tltefr respective group, together with the number of pairs of stars observed each night.
[In this tnblo t!Io connection of tho groups i· plainly shown.]

[Daily means of vnluos rodnco<l to gro11p aptcm.

LATIT'C"DE OF SAN FHANCISCO, CAL. <{J = :i70 47' 20" + tnbulur quantity.] ----- ·---------· ' I Group I. Group 111. 1 Group II. Date. I I [--------·-// //

1891. May 27 28
2y

30 31
June
I

3 5 6 7 8 12 13 14 17 18 19 20 21 22 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
July
I

I

4 5 6 7 9 10
II

12 14 17 18 19 20 21 23 24 25 30 31 Aug. 3 5 6 7 10
II

12 13

8·45 IO 2 8·20 8·38 16 8·27 13 8·61 14 8·64 7 8·36 17 8·02 8·47 16 8·44 I I 8·62 I I 8·38 7 8 8·14 8·50 12 8·46 16 8·16 13 8·39 17 8°46 14 8· 4o 16 8·41 13 8· 3o 17 8·48 13 8· 4 2 17 s·2 9 7 8·6o 17 8·16 12 8'34 15 8·40 12 8"21 16 8·29 13 8·31 5 8·34 17 8·19 13 8·39 17 8·33 12 8·16 17 8·10 13 8·15 16 8·2 9 7 s·15 3 8·36 16 8·48 13 8·48 17 8·57 11 8·79 16 8· 56 13 8·76 16 8·67 12 8·64 16 8·75 12 8·47 17 8°64 10 4 8'43 4 -------8-;·23 17 8·53 17 8·38 16 8·45 17 8·80 5 8·56 16 8·36 17 8·56 17 8·05 14 s· 3o 18 8·60 15 I 8·48 15 8·44 16 s·40 15 8·16 7 8·10 18 18 ·8·4~ 6 8·35 8·27 14 8·11 12 8·1 3 IO 8·01 IO 7·87 9 8·16 12 8·24 16 8'IO 16 8·16 16

I
I
I

n6

II

8·27 8·63 8·40 8·24 8·60 8·26 8·25 8·47 8·45 8·48 8·37 8·37 8·33 8·29 7·90 8·26 8·33 8·36 8·17 8·31 7'73

151 16 14 '

:: i 16
3 :
I

15 16 16 16 16 8 15 13 14 16 16 14 16 15

496

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Daily 111ea11s of i·alueB reduced to gro11p syste111-Continucd.
Date.

Grou,.. Ill.
II

Group!\'.
II

(;roup V.

Group VI

·-

I891.
Aug. I5

/I

II

I

I

I6 17 20 2I 22 31 Sept. 5 6 7 8 9 IO I2 I5 I6 I8 I9 20 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 Oct. I 2 3 4 5 IO II 16 I7 21 24 26 28 29 30 Nov. 5 6 7 8 9
11

8·I2 7·94 7·94 8·12 8·11 8·_::4 7·96 8·28 8·24 7·96 8·22 r88 8'00 8·I 7 7·74 7·99 8·05 7·95 8'31 8·18

I4 I5 6 14 10 16 12 9 12 15 6 I3 15 7 4 I6 I3 12 3 I6

8·40 8·35 8·50 8·33 8·09 8·56 8·18 8·24 8·45 9·22 8·33 7'98 8·24 8·40 8·32 8·13 8·21 8·24 8·12 7·88 8·12 8·03 7'96 8·17 8·24 8·30 8·23 8·11 8·18 8·37 8·24 8·21 7·81 8·52 8·30 8·51 8·14 8·22

16 8 16 17 2 12 4 16 10 4 14 14 6 17 16 17 16 17 15 3 17 16 I6 16 16 17 I6 16 17 I5 16 I6 13 16 9 3 15 7 8·34 8·15 8·05 8·11 7'96 7·94 8·1I 8·22 8·06 8·20 8·41 8·33 8·29 8·22 18 I4 I8 20 19 I7 20 16 I8 19 15 20 19 18

7'76 8·06 8·07 8·16 7·97 8·I5 8·20 7·88 8·02 8·20 8·16 8·17 8·19 8·02 8·39 8·13 8·14 8·19 7·94 7'94 8·oI

I

18
II

12 I3 I4 15 I6 I7 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

I5 20 20 19 3 16 I9 20 21 20 2I 17 16 2I 20 21 19 20

8·09 8·33 8·w 8·13 8·33 8·29 8·13 8·04 8·08 8· 11 8·27 8·08 8'I4 8·19 8·28 8·02 8·09 8·00 7·93

13 13 18 18 17 17 I7 18 17 18 18 I7 I4 I8 17 18 18 19 IJ

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Dail11111ea11s of ralllcs 1·ed11oed fo 91·011p B)/B~e11t-Cont.inuotl.
j~-:-Gr;;;;p\~-- -··--0o~(-;-\;I.

497
Group 11·
//

Group VII.
II

Group VIII.
II

1--;s;~~-I
Nov. 26 27 Dec. I 2* I3 I6 I7 I9 20 21 23 24 25 27 30 I892.

II

II

8·01 7·99 8·08 8·24

21 18 20 I4

8·04 7·96 8·13 8·28
-8~27

18 7 I9 6
IO

8·I6 8·27 8·28 8·33 8·03 8·I5 8·24 8·.F 8·29 8·23 8·39 8·I4 8·23 8·25 8·38 8·1I 8·30 8·20 8·43 8·I8 8·45 8·46 8·34 8·24

9 20 16 20 2I 22 6 I4 2I I4 8
21

~y-

8~66

___ IO 23 22 22 22 23 23 I 6 IO 2I 21 23 22 23 23 23 5 25 24 25 23 27 27 26 25 25 2 27 27 27 16 25 23 27 25 14 26

8·38 8·54 8·42 8·16 8·3I 8·36 8·82 8·37 8·58 8·5I 8·38 8·42 8·53 8·48 8·63 8·4I 8·71 8·40 8·57 8·47 8·56 8·50 8·54 8·37 8·32 8·47 8·I9 8·44 8·46 8·43 8·79 8·59 8·62 8·37 8·32 8·35 8·.·8

Jan.

2

8 IO
II

I2 14 I5 16 I7 I8 I9 20 2I
22

22 6 24 7 22 24 26 26 I7 23 I4

23 27 28 30 Feb.
I 2

23

6

8
9 IO 28 Mar.
2

7

3
4

6 7 8 I2 I5 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 29 30 31 I \Apr. 2 i

5

8·32 I2 8·48 I5 8·44 16 8·38 I5 8·4I 17 8·33 16 8·43 I3 8·27 I7 8·55 I7 8·36 16 8·48 I7 8·45 I5 8·59 8 8·61 I7 8·5I I8 -8·38_1_8___8·37
--~-5--~'8·34

20 5
I

8·54

I8

8·32

8·51 8·6o 8·46 8·56 8·41 8·72 8·38 8·52 8·51 8·63 8·67

14 I6 16 9 13 11 I6 12 16 4 15

8·68 8·47 8·68 8·40 8·44 8·41 8·69 8·51 8·62 8·38 8·53

6 18 2 21 18 19
II

12
I

21 21

*LaBt day of obaer,·ntion with Zoultb 'l'elusco11e No.1.

S. Ex. 19, :pt. 2-32

498

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Daily 111ea11s of 1icilllcs 7·etl1iet!d to yroup system-Con tinned.
· - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · -··-- - - - - - -

Date.

Group VIII.
II

Group 11 1·
/I /I

Group 111 1·
II

1892.
Apr. 3 4

8·40 8·30 5 ' 8·82 8·82 6 8·59 7 8·60 9 8·6o II 8·77 13 8·58 15 8·54 16 8·46 17 18 8·33 8·62 19 8·41 21 8·50 22 8·61 24 8·52 25 8·42 26 8·64 27 9·13 29
2

17 17 16 3
I

8·46 8·33 8·56 8·60 8·51 8·50 8·48 8·50 8·38 8·37 8·52 8·55 8·51 8·52 8·39 8·54 8·67 8·62 8·62 8·55

23 23 22 20 21 12 19 21 23 20 21
q

17 15 6 12 18 16 13 15 17 16 16 17 16
2 I

21 22 23 18 17 13 18 20

May

4 6 7

8·19 9·02 9·28

2
2 2

8
IO II

---ir:--46-- I J
8 ·67-22- ----s-:s-8-17 8·40 22 8·57 19 8·23 22 8·45 21 8·49 20 8·59 13 8·68 20 8·72 20 8·30 24 8·35 20 8·41 20 8·65 21 8·48 24 8·48 19 8·54 14 8·52 20 8·51 24 8·95 I 8·38 20 8·46 15 8·55 22 8·47 19 8·48 21 8·46 24 8·63 20 8·45 21 8·58 20 8·53 23 8°28 20 8·44 22 8·46 19 8·55 18 S·44 20 --"-"-------,,8--'· 5'--'3 13
s~~4~3-2~2---8~·-3_7_1_5_ 1

12 13 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 28 29 30 31
June
I
2

4

July 29 30
Aug.
2

5

..

3
4

8 9

8·39 8·52 8·35 8·6o 8·38 8·63 8·26 8·45 8·39 8·50 8·28 8·36
* Clo::;c of series.

7
20

20 18 15 23 23 21 20 21
22

IO
II

12 14 15 16 17 18
I9*i

21

8~~---··

8·30 8·28 8·40 8·41 8·42 8·48 8·31 8·40 8·46 8·50 8·II 8·23 8·24

13 16 4 13 I
I:.!
II

I

13 15 17 17 17 17 12

REPORT FOR 1893-P.A.RT II.

49,9

COMPARISON OF GROUP MEANS OR REDUCTION OF VALUES ..Ol,i' 'ONE GROUP TO VALUES OF THE ADJACENT GROUP DURING THE SAME PERIOD 01" '.l'IME.

B'y means of tlte preceding table, which contains the daily mean values, together with their wcights-i. e., the number of pairs observed on the respective elates and witltin the group-we get the weighted means of simultaneous observations (on the same night) for any two adjacent groups during the period of their connection, as sltowu by the horizontal bars. Tltese means, together witlt their relative weights (number of observations), arc as follows:
Com11arison of 9ro1ip sysle111s.

------

_____ ____
II
II II

I ,

Ill

IV

!

I

-__ __i

\'

I

VI

28·~~(278) I 28·42(392) 28·31(379)
I

28·32(300) 28·07(228)

II

28·33(205) 28·18(29 2)
I I

II

28·16~270)

II

I
Vil
II

28·10 412)
"

28·13p68~ 28·27 424 *
111,

I

_ _ _ l _________ jI-------- i
VIII
11,

*28·45(397) 28-46(392) 28·37(40)

28·44(265) 28·52(440)

II

,!

I/

I
II

I

28·51(343) 28·42(271)

II I 28·34(192) j

*Continued on same line.

ESTADLISIIJ\IEN'.l' OF 'l'HE OBSERVATION EQUATIONS.

The sum of the successive difforenees between the groups, when, after the lapse of a year, the same system or Group I has been reobservell, sl1onld eq nal zero. Likewise, the differences fot· any one group when reobserved should be the same, and when overlapping the difference for the three groups must satisfy the condition that the sum of two differences must equal the third. Let v1 - v1 - 1 be the correction to the 'observed difference between the means of a group (i) aud the preceding group (i-1). 'fhe relative weight8 to the difforences are given by a combination of the above nnml>er8 (in parentl,lesis) of pairs involved; wheuce we adopt for the reciprocal the value
1t

1 10 (P1 ='TI= ___
_r

__,.~-

+ P2)

P1P2

500

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The group <liffel'ences aud their respective weigllts are as follows:
------------·------ -··-----·-·------·--------' Observed differences. Obscn·cd differences. u=P 1
II II

II III IV VVI ·VII VIII --

I =II = III = IV= V ==' VI = VII=

+ + + -

+ 0·004

+ 0·025

0·253 0·025 0·029 0·179 0·020

and I 1 - VIII :o-c -11 1 I,"-'+ III, 111 = 11 -· VII = -

0·035 0·033 . 0·078 I' 0·010
I

·040 ·057 ·089 ·650

The observation equations are:
v2-1-f-V3-2-t-V4-3+ v5-4+ v6-5+ v7-6+ Vg_7+ vl-8
V2-I

=+
-vi

·41 ·01

2-1
--vi

= 3-2
-v _
1

v

3-2

=+ ·08
7

=-

·04

Forming the correlate equations and the normal equations, llaving regard to the above weights, we get

+ + +

·488k, ·061 k, + ·o6ok 1 'I03 k1

+

+ ·o61 k, ·118 k,

+

·o6oka

+ +

·103 k. +

.,- ·149 k, ·753 k. +

·41 =o ·01 =o ·08 =O '04=0
II

Solving, we find

l
II

k1 = ·9287 ko=- ·5648 ka = -i- ·1629 k4=- ·18o2

+

and the corrections

v2-1 =+ ·0222 ·0655 V3-2 = ·0864 v4-3 =

v5-4 = + v6-5 = v7-6= + v8-7 = + v 1-8 = ,vi 2-1 = + v' 3-2 = -

+ + +

·0659 ·0474 ·o455 ·0472 ·0299 ·0322

·0145 v11-7 = + ·1171

and tlle adjusted reductions become:
Rr1 = R 3- , = + R 4-:i = R 6- 4 =- + ~-·= + Rr-a= Ro-1 = +
R1--a

=+

·003 ·062 ·167 ·091 ·018 ·133 ·o67

So far as the variation of latitude is concemecl, it is immaterial which group may be taken as the initial one. Taking the first, we get the final reductions of the groups as follows:
II II

Group

II
III

·o65

IV

·oo ·oo + ·o6 ·11

Group

v
VI VII VIII

·oz ·oo ·13 ·06

REPORT. l'OR 1893-PART II.

.1501·

Applying the corrections to the respective group means of the last table of latitude rmmlts, aud combining the two values of each day with regard to their weight, we ftud the final daily mean values as tabulated below:
Res11lting latituclo of San Fmncisco.
-

[Dnlly means betw0<m May, 1891, and August, 1892, 37° 47' 20"

+ tabnlur quantities.]
No.of obs. j

.--------··-··--·----

--D-·t_c_.___ L·-t-itu_d_c._\
1891. May

~bs~{ i_"'-i-~-\!_::__I
~; }.
18 ~1 18 20
'I

...

---· ·-- · - - - - - -

'·"'""'" I
::~!
7·98 8·24 ·08
II

_____
4'
·
11

_,

·-------· - - - -

~~
1

8:1~
·34 ·46 ·53

fl

1891. Aug.

June

30 31

j

8·42

80

1.·'I

!!
13 15
16

I

1

105

~
8 12 13 14 17 I 18 1 20 21
19
1·

~

·41 ·38 ·42 "37
·25 "JI ·28

::~

:

~~

8 .41

94

I;
i
!'
Sept.

i!}
30 24 29) 27
29

8·40

114

~!
31

~~
5
7 I 891
6

'24 ·26
·20

:~~
·61
·15

:~
82

8
·34
8·24 90

5
30}

30

~~ :ii :~} ~~ :~~ ~i l~
26 ·51 28

"37 ·13

29 30

I 12

10 lZ

8·09 7·97 8 18

8·52

!I

89 '
1

.1,·

I
8·52
i

:.1

July

~

·53

~7
12 14 11
20

:!; ·38
I

:~~

127

123 !.\

~~} 32
~~ 20 ~
32 31

3~J
5

25

:~ ~~
~gI
2

15

7·8o
8·17 ·16
·02

108

20

·37 ·17 ·23
8·06

99

I'
8·48 100 \

~~

8·02 8·01
7 '90

7'77

103

Oct.

:~

9

·52 ·05

:~~

·So

'·
1·

1

;~

21 23

·49 ·42

:~

·40

~~

14J 33

l
1

8·41

131 .
1

l 5
10 11 21 24 26

7'99 8·11 ·19 ·08 ·10 ·22
·29

137

8·47

.,1116

Ii

!~

Aug.

3~

30

~t

·16
·37

:~~

s 6
7

:~~
·24
"24
·22

~! 14 J~
~~
24
25

7

Iii
8·32

95

'11

l
J
8 8
"I
__

I'.

26

ioo

I
I

!~ 30 Nov. i
7

·21 8·15 7·70 8·41 ·19 8·40 7·74 8·04
·11

·07 ·23 ·02

97

i ________ ..

502

U. S. COAST AND GEODE1'IC SURVEY.
ReBultin{/ latitude of San Pra11ciBco-Conti1111ed.
[Ullily moan· botweeu 1'lay, J8gJ, nucl AuguRt, 1892,

37° 47' 20" +tubular <1uantities.]

--

··---------

Date.

Latitude.

189r. Nov. 8 9
II

II

8·13

·25
·23

12

·07
·11 ·11

13
14

15
16

·22
·04

·13

17 19
20
21

22 23

26
27
Dec.
1
2

~t

I I
1·

·27 ·15 ·19
·10

8·00 7·96 7·97
8·01

13
16

7·97 8·09 ·24 ·27
·16

17 19
20 21

·36
·26 ·36

23 24

25
27 30
1892.
2

·31 ·03 ·17 ·24
·31 ·26 ·26 ·32 ·24

Jan.

8
IO II 12

·30

·25
·34
·11

14

15
16

17
18

·35

·28

19
20
21

·46 ·23

·48 ·36
·40 ·29

22

23

27
28

·37
·39
·40
·~7

30
Feb.
I 2

·25
·31
·32

6 7 8
9
IO

·27 ·39 ·30
-------·· - -

- -- ·--

U.S. Cocwt and Geode.t:lc Survey Report, ror 1893. Part ll.

No.20

,, 28.6
.5 .5 .4 .4
.3 .3 .2

..,
·~I~
...........
,_
,~

~

i£l
~
"' i'!
~

~

:::

~~{' r-.....
~~
~

\o/-\

v t::iri !:1.1 :i C'ITI
~o;

Tl

l<:>i ~tude t,O

at.

' :\QT>

:<'r~:n· ~·Qr'/"\

........
\

~

-

ace )rau: g

ousc ·:rvat on
A~?
~

~ ~
'

IR~H-·

.2
.1

""'

~

,, -

~

~t:

\~ k"" ......... ~ g: t....~
~
4

.

·I!?
..:ff

.1

~fal 'r--.L I
l

~-- ~

~
~

.. !Q.

... ~
g:{

J

.'"'~""' L.··" ..

f--V

' """ ~ '° "'"ll ·~ ....

~~

ow
5

lJ~ '-\f!,'J.. ~/j 1
·

,.~ ~ "''
~I

;:

"' v· ~-i

-

~
-~-~

fl

~ 5\

~

'S

'\t ..
·-

'-\.

!::/.!?'I fl,.

.o
28.o
91
~
)

:.

I

y·
18 ~2
Ju rz..,
Ju. ~
~ )

-.........
" +.Z
+.10

2'3
~

15

2~

Ai 'fl· lft.

Se. 't.
)

Ol;t.

213

lB

K<w.
·~
22

.P·c. 12

J. t,11,.

Fib.

M.

r

.A, i'T"
21

.M(

zli.

ib

JO

3IO

20

r

Jv lne
~

Ju. ~

29

19

.Al 'fl·

'

'.HI

'-...

""'"

0.
-.10

, ""'"
....

San If\

CC rnnu1

ed 1: 1v Ch ~nn}f r's

-

......... v

....

.........-

/ /

--- --

.........

'

.......... ......

f orn iula ,48)

............

-.2

""' "

.......

...··..

'

............ ............... ........ ........ ......... -·· .
VYA 1\11\1

.....

---

/
..,,.,.
./,,,

7

/

-- ....-"

.....

........

.........

---..__ . -·

--·-

-·-

./

....

./

r\Ul: KVI LU.

Ot.11 LIN

REPORT !<'OR 1893-PART n.
Bcs11Ui11g /atitutle of San 1"ra11e:isco-Coutinuod.
[Daily me1m· botwuon .May, 18Yl, anti .August, l8U2, 37° 47' 20"

503

+ tubular 11u1111titloH.}

'l'otal number of nights of observation, 2:11, and of individual values for latitude, Ii 7G8, contracted into ;i7 mean values, which are shown on tbe accompanying diagram by the zigzag line. '.rhe scales for 'tbis diagram are: For the time scale, 20 days to the centimetre; for the latitude scale, 0"·10 to the centimetre. '.rue numbers attached to the points represent the number of observations condensed into a mean for the given date aml are placed above the points; the numbers below them show the number of nights of observation. "\Vi th but a few exceptions the results of 4 nights were combined, and never nwre than o. The smooth curve passing between the zigzags is the result of eomputation. It was derived, however, not from the preceding ri7 mean values, but from a further condensation of these values to 29 normal values by uniting them two by two. The normals so obtained may he regardrnl as the outcome of the observations at Sau Francisco. 'l'hey are:
-i

-----------·-1-:~tude =-I-~~.=~-, N~c·,-·1- - D te ---~tituclo norN n.

Dntc.

I

o

,

- - - - - - - - · , mas 37 47

+ -~
174 204 201 223 247 19s 194 172
207

b

-

.

1

a .

j

=~

I

___:__ No. _ _
:

of

o

,

I

ob

1

~~

2

3 4

S
6 7 8 9
IO 11

12 13

-~~- -'-~~~: 2;:l

I

1891. May 30·8 June 11 ·8 Jun·e 23 ·o July 3·6 July 16·S July 31 ·8 Aug. 14·2 Sept. 2·0 Sept. 17·6 Sept. 28·2 Oct. 10·8 Oct. 31 ·o Nov. 12·2

II

28·42 ·37 ·38

16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 2s
26

·44 ·2s ·18
·22

·so

·12 ·04 ·16 ·10 ·08 ·16

'IS

240 234 143 278 289
202
-----··--·--

27 28
29

1891. Dec. 2s·4 1892. Jan. 12·8 Jan. 22·2 Feb. s·2 Mar. 6·2 Mnr. 23·8 Apr. 4·6 Apr. 17·6 Apr. 29·1 May 11 May 22·7 June 24·2 Aug. 9·2 Aug. 17·5

247 ·29 ·36 ·32 ·38 ·46

·s

·46 ·s6 ·51 ·49 ·48 ·44 ·36

·so

-------

----------·--·-

Average number of observations Conning a normal vah1e, 233.

504,

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Accordiug to Dr. S. C. Olmndler's researches· the variation iii' latitude of a place is dependent on two cycles: One having a dynamical basis, and supposed to be the Eulerian period lengthened out in consequence of the earth not being a rigid body, as explained by Prof. S. Newcomb; the otller of an annual period, supposed to depend on climatic conditions existing in the two hemispheres. The first period is subject to slow changes, aud its length at present is estimated as 431 <lays. The other period, of 3!ii3! days, is supposed less stable in amouut as well as in epocl1. The resultant of these two periodic fluctuations can be represented by the expression
<p

=<po+ r1 sin (

5:(t +

<¥1)

+ 1·2 sin(~~ t +

a2)

where t =number of days from the assumed epoch .Tamrnry O, 1891,
7( and.2 7( - = 360 ___ , 2 .= 360 -· · p J 431 J> 2 3()iJ·2:i

For g1 0 we put

:no

47' 28"·33

+ .r

and

form the 29 observation equatiorn; of the form
o.=<p0 -<p+x+sinm 1 t.;· 1 +cos m 1 I. z 1 + sinm,l.y"+ cosm,t. z,

whereJ'1=r1

cos a,

nndy,=r,

cos a,

also tan
1·1

a 1 = )'1 .~ ancl

tan a,=:~

y,

z.2 :...= r:1, sin <r'!

= V;~;i·+:-z-;-i

1·, o.·...o

V )'~'+ z,'

The normal equations become
29x- 0·326o;'1 - 2·133oz, - 1·059oy,- 4 ·544oz, + 0·1500=0 13·7572y1 - 0·4248z1 + 7·4752y,-11 ·3361 Z.2-2·5741 =O +15·2402z1+10·5193y"+ 8·9253z,-1·0466=0 + 13·6656y, - 0·392700-2·3283=0 15·3393z.,+ 1 ·4915 =O

. +

+

Solviug, we get
x

=

+ 0·0042 Hence:
<p

YI'"-" + 9·1713

., =
z,

=

-t· 0·0111

37° 47 1 28 11 ·334 + 0 11 ·171 sin (·835261+3·7) + 0 11 ·074 sin (·98563 1+20°·5) ... (a)

)'>= +0·0692
~

+ 0·0259

The observed values of (P are represented as follows:

~,I Ob~~ ~omp'~:_c-~·-// . . ~o·--1~>~>~'d. Co1~1::,;: (~-~. : _ ~ _ _·:_o~~~~~-~·<l.__c-~.
// II II

I
·1·

I

II

II

/I

I
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29

//

II

1 2 3 4

5
6 1 8 9 IO

, 28·42 28'48 + ·37 ·45 + ·38 ·41 + ·50 ·36 ~44 ·32 -· -25 ·28 + ·18 ·23 + ·22 ·18 ·12 ·15 + I ·04 ·13 +

·06 , 11 ·08 I 12 ·03 13 ·14 . 14 ·12 15 ·03 16 ·os I 11 ·04 . 18 ·03 I 19 ·09 I 20

J

I

28·16 28·12 ·10 ·12 ·15 ·13 ·08 ·14 + ·16 ·17 + ·24 ·21 ·29 ·21 ·36 ·29 -:·32 ·33 + ·38 ·42 +

+

·04 I ·02 ·02 ·06
'OJ

·03 ·02 . ·07 ; ·01 I ·04 I

28·46 28·46 ·so ·49 ·46 ·50 ·56 ·51 ·51 ·52 + ·49 ·52 ·48 ·49 + ·44 ·40 ·36 ·3 7 +

+ +
+

I/

·oo ·01 ·04 ·05 ·01 ·03 ·01 ·04 ·01

·- ---·- -··- - - · - - - - - - - - ' "Gould's Astronomical Journal-a Hcries of articles on the variation of latitudeVol. XI and XII, 1891-93.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

505

While this representation may be considered quite satisfac~ry, even here the difference in the perfomiance of the two instruments is perceptible, the earlier values 0- 0 being sltghtly larger than the later ones. '.l'he maximum and minimum values are found from the condition

t + a 1) + mi r2 cos (m2 t + <~2) hence tho minimum occurred for t = 295, or for October 22, 1891,
o = m1r 1 cos (m1
0
I II

with the latitude

37 47 28·118

and the maximum occurred for t = 501, or for May 15, 1892, with the latitude 37 47 28·517 giving a range in latitude of 0"·40. The curve shown in the lower part of the accompanying illustration l1as been computed for the longitude of San Francisco from Chandler's formula (48),· viz:
<p-<p 0 =-0"·l5cos fJ.+(t-1875,Nov.1)00·83527]-0"·rncos().+ 0-3200)

where t is the Julian date, November l, 1875 (heing tlie 2 406 194th day), 0 is the sun's longitmle. Computation was made for intervals of 20 days. Tile time of minimum is about November 9, 1891, and that of maximum about May 17, 1892, with a range of 0"·26+0"·21=0"·47. Uomparing the two curves, that giveu by observation and that given by computation, the latter as the result of an extended research of the phenomenon, we find a very close accord in their general run, sufficient to inspire much confidence in the results deduced so far. We find the observed minimum 18 days earliert and the observed maximum varia· tion 2 days earlier than the times given by formula (48), with au observed range of 0"·40 and a computed range of 0"·47. On the same diagram there are also shown parts uear the minima of the computed curves by formula (48) for Waikiki, near Honolulu, for Uockville, near Washington, D. C., and for Berlin, Germany. These curves exhibit the gradually decreasing minima as tho instantaneous pole of rotation is travei'ing eastward. The minima for these places occur about the time indicated by a short vertical bar.
·See Gould's Ast. Jour., Nos. 277, 284, u.nd Su7, of Nov. 14, 1893. t The uucertu.inty may amount to a week or more.

506

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

CbMPARISON OF 'l'HE RESULTS FOR VARIA'l'IOli'f OF LA'l'ITUDE AS. DEDUCED FRO)[ 'l'HE OBSERV.A.'l'IONS i\IADE BY '.l'HE CO.AST AND GEODE'i'IC SURVJ;:Y. A'l' THE THREE STATIONS, WAIKIKI, SAN FRANCISCO, AND IWCJCVILLE, 1891-92.

To bring tl1ese results under one view the observed values for latitude at lVa.ilciki have been represented by two periodic functions, one of 431, the other of 365t days, the same as was done for Sau Francisco. The data for Waikiki are taken from page 155, Appendix No. 2, Ueport for 1892. 'fhesc, together with the rmmlts, are as follows:
.

1.~l
2

I
Date.

No. of No. of pairs. nights. "P "P - - - - --· · · - · - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - II II II

Oh~~vcu Co~!J''<I
24·48
·50

l'-:~-1
·oo

3 4 5 6 7 8 9
IO
II

I891. June II 24 July I4
29 Aug. 9 2I

94 96
99 91
100

II

I62

8 8 9
9

175 I95
2IO

·32
'2I

221

·I4
'2I

Sept.

7

93
112

27
Oct. 18 Nov. 6 24 Dec. I7 30 I892. Jan. 16 28 Feb. 9
22

104

8 7
9

7

233
250

90
92
JOO

270 29I
3IO

·I8 ·09

24·48 ·43 ·34 ·27 ·23 ·I8 'I3
'IO

-·07
-l.:·02

+·06 +·09 -·03
·-·05

·15
'I2

·09
·11

+·oI --·06
-·OI ---·02

8
IO

I2

I I9

II

I3
14.

91
IOI 91
IOI

8
IO
6 6 9 8 8
IO

328 35I 364

·I8
·29 ·29
·26

·16 ·25 '3I

-·04

-!- ·02
+·I3 ·oo
+·09
-!- ·02

38I
393 405 418 428 441 458
478

15
I6

94

17 I8 19
20

Mar. Apr,
I

3 16
2

IOI 86 96 97 96 54
81 89

·45 ·42 ·55 ·73
·70

·39 ·45

·51

21 I 22 22. [ May 6
23 22

IO
I I

492
508 523

24 25

June

6 21

9 12 7
2I9

·76 ·67 ·61 ·65

·55

538

·56

·57 ·61 ·65 ·68 ·69 ·68 ·63 ·59 ·53

--· 'I2

-·05 -·08 +·02
+·07
-·02

+·04 -·03

2368

The eq uatiou
<p = 21° lG' 24"·372

+ 0"·109 sin (·83526 t + 870·4) + 0" ·23G sin (·98563 t + 3300.4) .. __ .. (b)

represents the observations and leaves the differencei.;, computed minus observed, as shown in the lust column of the table. It is plain that the two periodic terms are not fully separated, owing to the shortness of the series, so that we have to take the expression for nothing more than a representation of the observations.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

507'

The probable observing error of a single determination for latitucle at this station, Assistant Preston, observer, was found as follows: ·
Nos.

Group

I III

Prob. error.
11

VI
I

v

123 274 2 57 311 zp

±0 ·24} 0 11 ·21
· 011 20

011 , 21

Mean from 12o6 obser's e0 ±0"·21

=

0 11 ·19

In deducing this value the individual results by each pair were corrected for change in latitude. The discussion of the Roclcville, Jlfd., series apparently brought out some large deviations from a regular variation, and in particular toward the end of the observations there appeared a high value of the latitude about the close of April, 1892, followed by a rapid falling off. That this was not due to any real change in latitude could be taken for granted, but its origin had to be sought in the comparative shortness of the groups and especially in their loose connections. H.eturning to the table of the 14 normal values given 011 page 5\ of Appendix No. 1, Report for 1892, which aro now represented by a single periodic function of a length of 387 days, which has been taken for the rough interval at this time between two successive minima or·maxima. The formula
<p

= 390 0;)' 10"·4i:i ·+ 0"·1!) sin (o-!:)3i) t - 420.1)°..... - ... (~) .

represents the observations as shown by the residuals C-·O in-thelast column of the table of data below:
I I
I

:So.

()hscrn·d Comp'd No. of No. of nights. pairs. </>" </>' - - - - - -- -·-----·------· . ---· - - - - - - - - - - ·

Date.

C-V
--··-·----·-···
II

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
II

12 13 14

1891. Junt! 21 July 17 Aug. 12 Sept. 17 Oct. 17 Nov. 14 Dec. 15 1892. Jan. 20 Feb. 14 Mar. 20 Apr. 18 May 15 June 14 July 8
::!

II

II

90 126 288 171 190 117 91 39 95 !08 149 205 43

77

6 9 8 19 12 15 9 9 4
II

172 198 224 260 290 318 349 385 410 44.5 474 501 53 1 555

w·81 ·53 ·47 ·39 ·30 ·25 ·43 ·21 ·34 ·39 ·73 ·71

w·62 ·57 ·49 ·38 ·31 ·26 ·27 ·32 ·39

-·19 +·04 +·02 -·01 +·01 +·01 -·16 i +·11 ..:... ·05 +·11 -·15 -·08 +·08 +·17

12 13 16 3 146

·56
·45

·58 ·63 ·64 ·62

·so

=

1789

The probaule observing error e0 of a single determination for latitude wa::; found to be :::1:0"·17, using 1789 values, which is equivalent to the mean error as found by tho observer, Assistant B.'Smith (footnote, p. GO of Appencli.x: ~o.1, Heport for 18!)~).

508

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The three curves e~hibiting the variation of th.e latitudes at the Coast Survey stations are given on Diagram No. 21, the ordinates or time scale being the same for all The dots about the Waikiki curve represent observed (mean) values. The local minima and maxima are indicated by short vertical s_trokes. These phases compare as follows:
Minimum.
-·-·

Maximum.

Interval. Range in lat.

--Days. 189 206 193·5
196
II

At Waikiki* San Francisc'.) Rockville

Oct. 12, 18cj1 Oct. 22, 1891 Nov. 30, 1891

Apr. 18,1892 May 15, 1892 June IO, 1892 Average

---

0·61 0·40 0·38

"According to Ass_istant Preston's computation (App. 2, Rep. for 1892), using three terms of a Fourier series, the dates of tho extreme values are September 14, 1891, and April 2, 1892.

We have also the time required for the minimum to shift from the longitude of Waikiki to that of lfockville, 49 days, and the corresponding time for the maximum phase is 53 days, or a mean value of 51 days for a change of longitude of 800 40'. This motion of the phase is at a rate much too fast to be depended upon, since the uncertainty in the time of any one of the minima may be estimated at half a month or more. The observations made at Berlin* show that the minimum was reached there about Ma.y 5, 1892; i. e .. 196 days after tile same was noted at San Francisco, or 206 days after it occurred at Waikiki, which for the last place is at the rate of 00·830 per day. It is, however, preferable, in cases where the length of the series of observations ndmits of it, to deal with the two periodic terms separately, especially since the annual period is suspected to be very unstable as regards amplitude and epoch.
"Report of the International Geodetic Association, Brussels meeting, 1892.

U.S. Co a.st wui Geodet:i..c Surve-y N..epoT't- tor· 1893. Part fl
~---·---~

:No.Zl
~-

-

t-

·r-

-- - -

.

t--· ,_______
J...-"
I

I

. 70
.65

.60

.55

.50

1----A--t------+~"r-...
I

" 24.40

.. 45
.35
.30

--~--r~ -1~-~-=---r-=----,vO~lDaTlS·Dn 0 mrrl~~,.:o':1~ ___ _J_ ___ ~-· / .Y~iliof!.~,_l_!l_J~tude a1 thrrn st:A.Q_Qn~I ___ --~~~-- .'i.. -·-------- ---~·---l89l-=-1es2._ __ l /~-- -

v

e

---............

-_j__-+----1----'.

- I

W.Al~ll~l

--~---1----1---·-·_ - _ __ _l_.__ - __- - - - 1 .... 1"--...~ __i____ _,___ _.

-

.25 .20 .15

50 .45 .40

-~T "'~""- .
e

---e-----~-----1·--r-/- --+-- ~--1-- _,__. ---+---~----·--,/

,__+_
____

A-· 157° 50. 0 IW: oflC'rr.

-->---·-+·---t--·-t----- --+

------1-·1

.10
.05

28~3s ----1--~;:,.~.30

"-

--~

.25 -- ~~ .20

I

"""I
----

__:_ ~-- '- __ -·
I

' .

~

/;,e_:--· v +--+--

--

J---=bv
I

1/ .
/

=t=
I
I/

I

SAN

"-12:~

0

FRA~CIS!;O
25'.7

---~~-~-

---+---

-+---+----!

w.orGrr· . .-.. . . .
--

~~~----<

.15
.JO

c-_:~--r:::~:'___ ::-"C~
;,- . _,.

-~J_~

I

--::-+--r--_
---~

_....-~_:11--= =~:----I /" V"~ t;,KoKVll
--

I / " __ ---I
I

_,__=:J;;;;o--1t~~t---1---r---i
LE-,__.

.!'-..--

'--........... t--.._
'·,
-

'

'

__.--

'

/"
_/

i\ ,.,. 27° 10~' R ""-' of IGr

~

,_ -

IJ{) , ~ ~-·~'-'

--- -----1--

·--1-----l----l---+--~--+---t--t------I
I

,__~r--·

--r-- -

i.-·

1---~1-----:"n-I+---- - - - - - - t - - - - 4 -

·-

·n~I
~

r--...

_~~

' :

. -............. ~._
-

'

.l_

i

-........,.......___
Nov.
2 22

·

___......-IJec.
12

__.....V

_/

· -- - - ---if--_L_--i-----+----i

f--·-+---+---+- --l----l---+---+----!--+----+----1

Mey June July
26 15 5 . 25

Aug. Sep.
14 3 23

Oct.,.
L1

Jan.-.
1 21

Feb.
10

Mar.
l 21

Apr.
10 30

May June
20 9 29

July 19

A~.

8

18

1891

1892

----- -

--------·-·-.:..::..::--:-:--=-=-.--::-------=----~-=-

.-::::=::::=:....---··

GEODESY.
DE1'ERMINA'l'IONS Ol~ LA'l'ITUDE, GRAVITY, AND 'fHE MAG· N" E'l'IC ELEMENTS AT STA'l'lONS IN THE HAW AII AN ISLANDS, INCLUDING A RESUL11 FOR THE ~lEAN DENSI'l'Y OF 'l'HE EARTH.
1891, 1892.
A report hy E. D. PH.F;STON, Assistant.
tiuhtuitteil for JHI hlicitt ion .Juno 30, 1894.

APPENDIX No. 12-REPORT FOR 1893.

Blank page retained for pagination

TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Poge.

Introductory statenrnnt ......... _... ____ .. ____ .. _. ___ . ___ .......... __ ... _. __ . Preliminary and concluding observations at 'Vashington .. ___ ...... _... ____ . Scheme for the publication of the gravity work at all of the stations ____ .... Gravity observations at "'aikiki.. ____ .. ___ .. __ ..... ___ .... _ ·-- .... _. ___ ... _ Clock rates all(l instrumental cons tun ts at ""aiki kL. __ . _ ...... _... _. _... ___ . Pendulum observations and reductions at 'VaikikL .. _. _... ___ ... __ .. __ . _. __ High nn<l low water at Honolulu from ,June 17, 1891, to Jnnn 30, 18\.!2 ____ ·--Relative heights of mean sea Jeyol nt Honolulu from June, 1891, to .June, 1892. l\Iagnetic, gravity, and latitude observations in connection with the oxpeclition to Urn 1111mmit of Manna Kea und at somo subsequent stations .... ··--Descript10n of magnetic instruments .... ·-----·----···----------·-·-·--· ___ , Magnotic observations at 'Vaikiki, with sketch of magnetic station .... ·----Magnetic ohsef\'ations at Kahukn, Oahu, with sketch of station .. ____ ... ___ . ObHorvations at Honolulu for gravity, with description of station ...... ·----Magnetic observations nt Honolulu, with sketch of station .. __ .... ___ .. __ .. _ Kn waihae, with sketch showing loc:ttion of stations with reference to the shore line. --- __ .. __ --- .. - ___ . __ --- -·---- ... __ . ------ ___ --· ___ --- ___ ... ____ Sketch showing location of stations occupied at Kawaihne with reference to "south Buse ... --- -·-- .. ___ ... _·--. __ --- ·-- ___ .. ---- ___ -·- ·-- ..... _--·. _. ___ Plan of Heiau of Pun Kohol(L at Kawaihae ...... ------ ·----- ----·· ·----· ---· Results of latitude observations at Kawaihae .. _____ .. ___________ . ____ .. ____ . Manna Ken, as seen from \Vnimea .... ·---·· ---- ·---·· ____ ·----- ·----· .... -·-Wnimea, with sketch of magnotio station.------·----···--·-·-----·----··--· Illustration showing localities whore lava specimens were ohtnine1L. __ .. ____ Manna Kea, as seen from Kalaielrn. ·--- ·--- ------ ---- ---- ·----- ·----- .... ---Kalaieha, with sketch showing gcocletic position of latitude station. - - - . _. _- . 'VJLiau Lake, near summit of J\lauu:i Kea ...... ____ . ___ ..... __ ... - --· ...... -'Vaian ......... --· ·--- -·-- ... ·--- ---- .... ··---· ____ ---- .......... ---- ---· Summitplatea11 of Manna Koa ______ ···--· ·----· ··---- ·----· ·---·· -·-· ·----· Viow from K11-ka-han-n!it, the Rummit of Illauna Kea, looking southwest .... . Geodetic aml astronomical positions of the three stations on H11waii ... - - ... . From ·waiuu to Hilo.-·-. ___ ._._ .. ________ ··------_·--._.--· ... _-·-. - . .. . . .. . Hilo, station on Cocoanut Islnrnl, with sketch .. - .. _... - . - - - - .... - - ... - - .. - - Kealakeknn .. - -- ... __ --- ... - .. ·-- -- . ----·· · - - --- · · · - - · ·- - - -- · · · -· · · - - - - · · · · Napoopoo, Hawaii_ _____ ···---·---···---·- .... --·----- .... ·-----·----------Kealakealrna Bay, looking northwest.---···-- ----· --·- --·- ---· -··· --·- ---· Lahaina, with Rketch of i;tation ..... ·--- ........ -··- ---- ----·· --·--· ---· ---'Vaimea "A," with sketch of i;tat.ion .. - - - -·. - - -- .. -- - -- - - - . -- - - -- --- .. -- . -- -\Vaimea "Il," wit.h sketch of station ...... -·-·--··---· .... ···-···-·-··-----· Nonopapa ... ___ . _.. ___ . __ --·. _...... __ ... _- --- . - - ......... --- - -- . - - . - .. - - - . . Mount Hamilton, Lick Observatory, California .. - - - .. - - - - ... - - ... - ..... - - - - . Barometric determination of the heights of \Vaimea, Kalaiehn, ancl \Yaiau .. - . Abstracts of magnetic results .. _- .... ___ .. - __ ... - . - ... - - - - .. - ... - - - . -.. ___ - . 511

513 514 516 524 526 534 u65 574

576 576 579 580 583 586 587
588 589 594 592 595 5!J6 596 595 601 601 602

607 608 609
610 612 613 614 IH5

ms
620

512

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Page. 624 625

Localities, geographical positions, ancl elev atious of the gravity stations. - - Summary of results for relative and absolute force of gravity. - - - _.. - . __ . - . __ Tho density of Mauua Kea, and the )lean Density of tho Earth . ____ . ___ - . . . . List of stations occupied in the Hawaiian Islands, with results obtained. ___ . ILLUSTHATIONS.

525 636

~Gravity, latitude, antlmaguotic station at 'Vaiuu (frontispiece) ... ·-·-----518 "Outline map of tho lluwaii:rn lslandH ... __ .. ___ ........ - - . - . ________ - _.. _. 514. "Half-second pendulum apparatus. Side view (right) of rocoiver, flaah apparatus, otc. - .. _.. - . - ... - - - ... ____ - - . - - - - .. - . - - . - . - . - . -... -- . - - - - . - .. 524 Variations of gravity at 'Vaikiki ·-----. ---- ............. ------ ------ -----· 561 Variation of mean sea level at 'Vaikiki ... __ .. __ ..... _... - --· ·- _____ .... - _. 575 Sketch of magnetic ~tation at Waikiki.. _____ . ___ .... ___ ... ___ .. _.--· .. ____ 581 Sketch of Kahnku magnetic station .... - .. - ... _. ____ . __ - - - . - -- ... _..... - __ . 582 Stations at Honolulu .................. ----·--·-·---··----·---·-·--···----586 Kawaihae Bay, Hawaii------ ............. ··---····--···-·-----·----···.... 587 Statious at Kawuihae ___ - - ... __ .... __ .. -- - --- . - - ..... ---- ... -- . -- . - --- . - . - . 588 Positiou of latitude station at Kawailwe ........ _. __ ... - . - .. - - - _.. ___ .... __ 588 Plan of Heiau of Pun Koho!U at Kawaihan .. _____ ·-- __ .... - -- ..... _..... _. _ 589 *l\launaKea, as seen from 'Vaimea .... ··--····----····-·····-···--·······-592 'Vaimea magnetic station. --- - -- -- -- ... - - . ·-- --- .. - - -- .. - - --· --- - - ..... - - - . 595 ~ lslnnd of Hawaii, reduced from Government surveys . _- - .... __ ...... _.... __ 596 "lllauna Kea, as seen from Kalaicha ... __ ..... _. - __ . _.. - - - - . - . - - - - ...... - - - _. 596 Geodetic position of Kalaieha latitude station ... __ .... - . - . - - ........ __ ... __ 5!.'6 "\Vaiau Lake, near the summit of Manna Kea ..... _.... _____ .. _..... _.... ___ 601 "Summit plateau of .Mauna Kea. ______ --- -----· ... __ .... - -- .......... _... --602 "View fro·m Ku-ka-han-ula, the summit of Mauna Kea ______ ·--···........... 603 · Sketch of Mokuola (Cocoanut IH!aml) ... _..... - ..... __ - ... - - - - ........ - .. _. 608 Kealakekuu Bay ____ . ______ . _.. ____ ...... _ ... _... _. _ . ____ ... __ ........ _. ___ (jO!J Napoopoo, Hawaii. ___ . ____ . __ --· .. _... _-- .. ____ . ___ ... - . -- - -- ..... _... ·--609 "Kealakeakna Bay, looking northwest._---------·-._ .. _ ... _---- --- ..... _. __ 609 Lahaina. Magnetic station of 1892 and latitude and gr1wity station of 1883. 610 \Vnimea "A," at Kauai···---·-·- .... ·---------·------··---------·-··----·612 'Vaimea "B" .. ·----· -----· -··- ---· ··-- ------ ------ ··-- ---· -----· --·· ·----· 613 Diagram to illustrate discussion of tl1e density of the Clarth ... ·--· ·----·. 626 --·-··--·- · · - - - - - - - · · · - · - · · - - - - - - - - - - - · From negatives in archives.

U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Re port for 1893. Part II.

No. 22.

GRAVITY, LATITUDE , AND MAGNETIC STATION AT WAIAU , LO OK ING NORTHEAST.

Elcvn.tion 13,000 feet \3,9S1 meters).

APPENDIX No. 12-1893.

DETERMINATIONS OF LATITUDE, GRAVITY, AND THE MAGNETIC ELEMENTS AT STATIONS IN THI<~ HAWAIIAN ISLANDS, INCLUDING A RESULT FOR 'l'HE MEAN DENSITY OF THE EARTH. 1891, 1892.

A report by E. D. PRESTON, Assistant. Submittod for publication June 30, 189,l.

While engaged in astronomical observations iu the Hawaiian Islands iu 1891-92, in cooperation with the work of the International Geodetic Association, occasion was taken to make a continuous study for one year of the force of gravity at \Vaikiki. After the work had been completed at this place an expedition was undertaken to the summit of l\Iauna'Kea, an extinct crater, having an elevation of 13 825 feet. The object of this trip was the determination of the force of gravity at the base and summit, from which the density of the mountain and the mean density of the earth might be deduced. Availing ourselves of the occupation of this unique station, magnetic, latitude, aud hypsometrical observatio11s were curried on, besides making a trigonometric and topographic SUl'vey of the great plateau at an elevation of about 12 500 feet. \Vhen this was done, some magnetic observations were made at other points of the group, notably at Napoopoo, Kealakeakua Bay, on the lee side of Hawaii, where Captain Cook made similar observations in 1779, and at J,abaiua, Maui, where De Freycinet had an observatory in 1819. For an account of other work done in the Hawaiian Islands in 1891-92 the reader is referred to Appendix No. 12, Ooast and Geodetic Survey Report~ 1891 (Transit of Mercury); Appendix No. 13, Coast and Geodetic Survey Report, 1891 (Preliminary note on the occupation of stations iu the Hawaiian Islands); Appendix No. 2, Heport for 1892 (On the variation of latitude at Waikiki, near Uonolulu, from observations made in connection with the International Geodetic Association), and Bulletin No. 28, on the Oonstant of Aberration.
S. Ex. 19, I>t. 2-33
513

514

U.S. COAST kND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The following report bas to deal with!. Gravity observations at 'Vaikiki. II. Gravity observations iit Honolulu, Kawaihae, Kalaieha, and Waiau (summit of !\fauna Kea). III. Latitude-observations at Kawuihae, Kalaiehn., Waiau, and Lahaina. IV. Magnetic observations at Kahuku, Waikiki, and Honolulu, on Ouhu; at Kawaihae, 'Vaimea, Kalaieha, Waiau, Hilo, and Napoopoo, on Hawaii; at Lahaina, on Maui; at 'Vaimea, on Kauai, and at Nonopapa, on Niihau. V. Hypsometrical observations at Honolulu, Hilo, Kawaihae, Waimea, Kalaieha, and Waiau. · The location of these stations is shown in Illustration No. 23.

The gravity observations at Waikiki were made in connection with the International Geodetic Association work. The subsequent determinations were carried on with the cooperation of the Hawaiian Government Survey. The greater part of the expense was borne by this Bureau, and the personnel of the party was largely composed of members of the staff. Prof. W. D. Alexander, the accomplished surv~yor general of the islands, accompanied the expedition to the island of Hawaii and remained with us at all statigns except Hilo. During the occupation of the ·Summit of Mauna Kea he assumed tbe difficult task of making a trigonometrical survey of the plateau. The .peaks have an altitude of nearly 14 000 feet and are composed largely of scoria and red volcanic sand, which makes the ascent one requiring extraordiuary endurance. In this work he was assisted by Mr. J. M. Muir, who voluntarily accompanied the expedition without compensation and whose services were of great value. The other members of the party were Mr. W. E. Wall, Mr. E. D. Baldwin, and Mr. ,V, W. Chamberlain, of the Government Survey staff: Mr. Louis Koch performed the duties of steward, a service of some difficulty and of great importance to a party encamped above the clouds, and Kauwe, an intelligent Kanaka, acted as guide both during tlle ascent and on the return. In the computations I had the help of Mr. C. C. Yates during the latter part of the work.
PRELIMINARY AND CONCLUDING ODSERVATIONS AT WASHINGTON.

The gravity work of 1891-92 was entirely of a differential character. Tlle continuous determinations at Waikiki simply required that the pendulums sllould r~ceive no accident during the year of occupation, while the observations for the density of Mamrn Kea only made it necessary to guard against accident between the times of swinging at the base and summit of the mom;itain. It is evident, however, that if the periods of oscillation of tlle three pendulums are deter:mined in Washington before leaviug on the expedition and again on the return an agreement of these two determinations will give increased confidence in all the work executed during the trip. In April 1891, the following values were found for the periods of oscillation of pendulums B1, B2, and BJ at the Smithsonian Institution. Tlley are reduced to

U. S Coast ar;d Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II.
·~~-.,
·jb"

No. 23.

=i
I
ll

·

"""P"P~

w I w~~ ·····

-

-

'1I
I

~anm
-K U ,

·s11

·1·1 --- -

-~,)~\-

-

-1
"

-

-·-

-·

--·--

··-

I-----!

--

"--'

I

IL_

---

~ 19 "*"
-$'

OUTLINE MAP
Of THE

llJ\WAIIAN ISLANDS - Showing the lor.at10n of stations.
Class of Observat1011s

-

- - - - - - - -----

·-----------

+
O

~atnelO<
Latitude
and Gravity

I\
Magnetic.

H

-<?-

·

+

,Gravity t.ind t.tagoetic.

~
-

1ho'; _ _ ----

*

. Magnetic and Meteorologic.al - · - _--1.li_ - - - - · - y~&.

____

r
-

__ _. ,,..,,.,,f111 .... , ,. - r ..
-

...

__

_ __ _
1'.JJ. .L

·a
-

,,

--

-.-. J

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

515

a temperature of 150 C., a pressure of 500mm at oo O., to a.n infinitely small arc and sidereal time.
Bi= 0·500 782 8"} Bz = 0·500 G9G 2 l\Iean = 0·500 703 8· B 3 = 0·500 Q32 5

Before the return of the expedition, in October, 1892, the base station at Washington had been transferred from the Smithsonian Institution to the Coast and Geodetic Survey Office. The periods were therefore determined at the latter place. The following is the result:
B 1 = 0·500 779 4"} Bz = 0·500 695 O Mean B 3 = 0·500 631 3

= 0·500 701 9·

A comparison of the above values gives a diminished period for all three pendulums. We have the excess of the time of oscillation in April, 1891, at the Smithsonian Institution, over that in December, 1892, at the Ooast and Geodetic Survey Office, as follows: For Bi =
B2 = B3 =

+ 0·000 003 4"} + 0·000 001 ~ + 0·000 001 9· + 0·000 001 2

These two stations were connected by simultaneous determinations of gravity by l\fr, Putnam and Mr. Von der Treuck. The result gave an excess of the period at the Uoast and Geodetic Survey Office over that at the Smithsonian Institution of 0·000 000 5·. So that we llave a mean decrease in the period of oscillation of the B pendulums consequent upon the work outsid~ of the United States of 0·000 002 4·. This is about 1 part in 400 000. ·when we consider that these pendulums were in continual service for more tllan a year at Waikiki, that they were transported on mule uack to an elevation of over 13 000 feet, where· the observations were made under difficult and adverse circumstances, and that numerous other stations were occupied in the Hawaiian Islands and in this country, this close agreemeut between the periods of oscillation before and after the expedition must be rngarded as highly satisfactory. In regard to the accuracy attainable in the general method of optical coincidences as practiced in this work, it appears to be far beyond what is necessary. If c = the interval iu seconds between two coin· cidenees, and if in that time the pendulum has gained or lost one beat on the timepiece, tlle time (t) of one oscillation is

516

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The accuracy with which t is determined depends both on the length of the interval and the rate of the pendulum on the timepiece, but principally on the former. Differentiating the above expression gives approximately

Where the pendulum period is nearly an aliquot part of that of the timepiece and the interval between two coincidences is 15 minutes, or say l 000 seconds, ai1 observation of c to the 1;earest second will only produce au error in the lc11gth of the period of one part in eight million. Tlle following are the observations at Washington before and after the expedition. 'l'he computations, as well as the observations, were made by Mr. G. R. Putnam, Assistant Coast and Geodetic Survey. The arc correctionR were computed by Borda's formula. The temperature coefficient was determined empirically uy observations at high and low temperatures in April,1891. 'fhe increase in period for l °C. increase in temperature was found to be: For pendulum B 1 B2

o·ooo 004 rn·
422 408

BJ

'fhe mean of these, which is 0·000 00415·, was used in the reductions. From the coefficient of expansion of the pendulum alloy, as determined by the Oflice of Standard 'Veights and Measures, we get 0·000 004 14·. The pressure coellicient was determined in April, 1891. The mean for the three pendulums was found to be 0·000 000 078 9·, representing the increase in period for au increase of 1 m 111 in pressure at oo C. 'fhe correction to the period is therefore.
-K [

p 000 r+o.oo3mt-

J

where Pis the difference between the readings of the barometer and manometer and t is the temperature. 'fhis reduces the period to that at a pressure of 500m 111 at oo 0. · The chronometer rates were.determined in April, 1891, from United States Naval Observatory signals, and in D ~cember, 1892, by time observations, by 1\Ir. Putnam. Tlie gravity work for all the Rtatious is published 1wcording to the following scheme: Column I indicates the pendulum. Uolnmn II, the positio11 (direct or reverse. Column III, the number of the swing. Oolmnn IV, the date.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

517

Column V, the number of seconds between the first and eleventh coincidence. Columns VI and VII indicate the arc through which the pendulum was swinging at the first and eleventh coincidence. Column VIII indicates the corrected temperature. Column IX, the manometer reading. Column X, indicates the barometer reading. Column XI, the pressure in the receiver at a telliperature of oo c .. The uncorrected periods, the different corrections, and finally the corrected period ill sidereal time are given in the following table:

518

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
l'endulmn obser1·ati011s, 1Vaslii.ngto11, D. C. (S111itllsonia11 Inslif.ution).

-I

~:-·----j--1

Pen du- Pusi· S . I D·it. ~ lum. lion. wmg:. I ' c.
;

-.I-Time
f

of

-1-

Semi-arc.

1

·

ten 'oinclITemper· Manom- ' Barom- Pressure dcncc intcr- 1 I cter. 1 . ctcr. at o° C. 1 nture. . vals. 11 nitial. Final. I I '

-n.---1-~,--1-- ~~~?: 5 ~;~;~· 1 ~~~'s I ~~~'5 , 2:~3 - ;~~':2 - ;~~':1 ~~'::·6
2 13 19
R
i

16 16 15 1 15 I 16 16 I

15

3266·0 3271 ·o 326o·o 3252·5 3257·0 3260'0 3261·8 3645·0 3653·0 3600·0 3662·0

5'25 I 3·85 5 ·85 I 4·10 5·30 [ 3·80 5·20 5·35 5'70 5·25 5·30 5·40 5·30 5·30 5·20 5·30 5·25 5·25 5·20 3·70 3·75 3·75 3·50 3·25 3·75 3·20 3·20 3·6o 3·70 3·25 3·20 3·80 3·80 3'90 3·20

20'98 223'0 20·93 228·6 21·081228·4 21·08 21·18 20'93 21·10 21·28 21·36 20·98 21·08 21·40 21·40 21·06 20·57 21·40 20·74 21·08 21'10 20·81 20·88 21 'IO 20·59 226·5 225·5 229'0 226·2 203·7 227·2 229·4 231·0 226·7 224·8 229·4 215·4 224·6 227·7 228·2 230·0 227·2 230·0 228·1 234·8

765·3 768·7 766·9

501'9 499·9 498·3

i
I

3 4 I 14 ! 22
6 15 20

765·3 I 498·4 765·3 499·1 768·3 499'2 767·8 501·0 765·0 764·6 76n 765'5 764·4 764·3 767·2 770·2 764·4 769·2 766·9 767·8 769·1 769·0 766·8 770·1 519·0 496·71 498·2 496·3 496·9 498·6 497·6 514·2 498·8 501 ·5 498·4 497·5 501 ·8 498·9 498·4 495·9

!) l

5 :

R

8 16 23
Ba
D
IO

7

15 15 16 17 15 16 16 16 16 16 16 17

3666·5 3670·0 3681·0 3708·0 4042·5 4044·5 4054·5 4047'0 4054·5 4053·5 4050·5 4099·5

9 17 21

5'35 5·00 5·00
5·30 5·30 4·85 4·80

R

II

12 18 24

REPORT :POR 1893-PART II.

519

Red11clion of pe11d11111m obBerl'ations, Wasliingto11, D. C. (Smit11so11ian J11stitutio11).
[Periods reduced to temperature, 15° C; prll8sUr<', 5oo~m nt 0° C.; llrc luflnitcly s111all; ·idereal time.]

Penclu- S vi ,
lum.

I

' ng.

I , I Period uncor- 1·
rcctc<l.

Corrections (in se\'enth clcclmal place). .~ re.

'

_
I

_\ ____ I
Seconds.
2

, Tempera· 1, ressurc. ture.
1

I

R ntc.

I IPeriod corrected.
1

j --- -

- - - ,· - - - - -

--.S-ec_o_11-ds-.--:

13 19

0·500 7664 7666 7655 7680

-74 -73 -86 -73
1

-246 -248 -246 ! -252 I

0

:

~
I

I
Direct

0·500 7830 7830 7780 . 7824

1~oo7s1_6_'
0·500 7862 7845 7822 7828

B,

14
22

3 4

0·500 7698 7688 7680 7676

-71 -74 -81 -62

-252 -256 -246 - 2 53

+1 +1 +1
-

Reve1se Mean

0·500 7839 0·500 7828 0·500 7010 6974 6980 6983

6 15 20

5

0·500

6868 6853 6829 6836

-68 -75 -70 -72

-261 -264 -248 -252

-15
I

+3

+3
Direct

+1

--;5oo6;8-;-\

23

16

8

7

0·500 6828 6821 6801 6751

-266 -266 -251 -231

+2 +1
-II

+2

0·500 6951 6941 6949 6910 Reverse Mean 0·500 6938 0·500 6962 0·500 6322 6334 6332 6343
Direct

9
IO

17 21

0·500 6192· 6189 6174 6185

-62 -73 -59 -59

-266 -238 -252 -253

-

+1 I +1 +2

'0·500 6333 0·500 6320 6318 6339 6289

II

12 18 24

0·500 6174 6175 6180 6106

-69 -71 -57

-241

-244
·-253 -232

-56

+1 +1

-

I

+3
Reverse Mean

0·500 6316 0·500 6324

520

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Pendulmn oburvationB, WaBhinyto11, D. C. ( CoaBt and Geodetic Surt·ey Office).
[Observer: G. R l'ntnnm.]

lum. tton.

~~~-IP_osi-) Swing.
J

I

I
II

1'

Date.

Cd~~~~intervals .

N'!.

~f I Time of I
te,n coin. c1dcncc rntcrvais.

Semiarc. T i J : Ir ?tfanom· i I lure. I etcr. I !1 . Ia1.I F'ma I. ' · mt i

I

I

~rr::: ~

Barom-1 Prcs~a~re ctcr. at o C.
mm.
J '""'·

'

-----1! I892.
B,

l__
Seconds . . mm.

,_·-,---·1- -i mm.
0

i
!

C. . mm.

,

D

I3 I4 15
lb

3I 32
B1 R

Dec. 14 · I4 15 IO · I5 IO I5 IO 17 16 I8 IO 10 15 15 I 10 15 i 10 18 I 6 18 I 12 10 10 10
IO

3295·4 5·35 I 3·50 3297·0 5·35. 4'00 3296·5 5·30 3'95 3295·5 5·25 3·80 3292·2 5·40 3·25 3294·5 [ 5·30 3 '95 3281·5 3287·5 3283·5 32967 3297·9

12·00 11·88 11·93 11'97 12·40 II "95

232·9 239·6.,1 239·3 237'6 237·7 240·0 216·4 246·8 244·2 239·4 237·5 241 ·5 243·I 240·4 242·8 240·0 239·2

764·6 767·4 767·4 766·8 762·4 763·8 765·8 765'5 765·4 761 ·5 76I ·5 762·6 762·8 762·5 761·9 761·6 761·0

508·3 504·8 505·0 505·9 500·9 500·9 525·0 495·3 497·5 499·4 50I'2 499·6 498·2 500·2 496·4 498·8 498·9

17 18 19 33 34

5·15. 3·85 12·17 5·25 ! 3·80 12·35 5·30' 3·80 12·45 5·20 4·35 II ·83 5·3013·70 II ·83
J

B,

i

D'

7 8 9 26 27 28

IO
IO

3729·0 5·40 3·80 3725·0 5·40. 4·00 3723·0 5·40 I 3·90 3706·0 5·35 3·80 3705·0 ; 5·30 3·80 3704·5 '5·30 3·80

11·20 11·30 11·40 11·93 11 ·95 12'00

I

I

I

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

521

Reduction of pendulum obBl'Tvatio11B, WaBlringto11, D. C. ( CoaBt a11d Geocletio S1m'IJ!f Office).
[Periods re<luci~I to tompemturo 15° C.; pressure, 500mm nt 00 C.; aro infinitely small; shlereal time.]

\___ \____
i Pcndu- Swing
Period uncorlum_._· \ _ -··- ·-··· rccted.

I
______ _

Corrections (in seventh decimal place). ,
J

I
1

Arc.

.1_

I

Period corrected.

Tempera- 1, tt:r_~· _ ressure. __Rn~.
---~~~,

I

B,

St'ronds.

! _
68 -77 -75 -72 -65 -75 +124 ,129 +127 +126 -j-108 -j-126 6 4 4 5
I I

13 14 15 16 31 32

0·500 7598 7594 7595 7598

76o6 76oo

-j-152 f-142 -j-142 +142 -j-144 -i-145
Direct

Seconds. 0·5007800 784 785 789 792 795

0·500 7791 0·500 7798 8oo 802 792 797 0·500 7798 0·500 7794 0·500 6959 959 959 954 954 953

17 18 19 33 34

0·500 7630 7616 7625 7595 7592

-71 -72. -73 -80 -71

I I

-j-117 +110 +106 -j-132 -j-132

-20

+
-

-t-4
2

0
I

-j-142 -j-142 -j-142 -j-145 +145
Reverse

Mean

8 9 26 27 28

7

0·500 6713 6720 6724 6755 6757 6758

-74 -78 -76 -74 -73 -73

+158 +154 -j-149 +127 +126 +124
.

0

+1
0

+3 +1 +1
.

-j-162 -j-162 -j-162 -j-143 +143 -j-143
Direct

.-----.I

----·~-~------~---~-

I

0·500695_6_

522

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC

SURV.f~Y.

Pendulum observations, Washington, D. C. (Coast and Geodetic Survey Office).
[Obsen·or: G. R; l'utnnm.]
-- -------

Pen-Ip ·I du- _osi-1 Swl ng.
lum. t10n.··--·;

Date.

No. of Time of Semi-arc. coioci- ten Maoom- Barom- PressurJ coindeoce cidence ato 0 c. ctcr. eter. inter- intervals. . . · ture. lmtiat F Ina\. _ _ va\s.

I

I -:::~=

I

1

B,

R

0 I 2 29 30 I 2 3 20 2I 22
4

I892. Dec. I4 14 I4 I7 I7 I2 I3 I3 JS I6 I6 J3 J3 J3 J6 J6 16
I

Seconds. mm.

IO 10 IO IO 10 I2 JO JO I4 IO J2 IO JO JO JO JO JO

mm. oc. 3·65 11 3730·5 3726·0 5·25 3'75 I I ·67 3723·5 5·20 3·80 11·77 3713·0 5·30 3·90 I2'13 3709·5 5·30 3·8o 12·27

i

ns

'""z. ·so 243·6

24I'7 244·0 244·0 24I'I 235·2 24I'S 252·4 240·0 244·8 24I'6 239·6 254·9 246·7 243·5 24J·4 239·6

mm. 762·2 762·4 762·7 760·0 760·0
774·9 772·6 77J·9 766·6 767'9 767'8 770·7 769·8 769·2 766·8 766·5 766·4
·-

mm. 496·7 498·4 496·3 493·0 495·6

133

D

4I22'I 4J43·5 4I45·5 4092·9 4096·5 4096·2 4J25·0 4J29·0 4J25·0 4083·5 408J ·o 408o·o

5·90 5·25 5·20 S'IO 4·85 4'90 4·85 4·85 4·85 4·85 4·85 4·85

3·6o 3·40 3·45 3'JO 3·30 3'J5 3'30 3·30 3·30 3·30 3·30 3·30

11·45 J0'90 I0'97 J2'55 I2'23 J2'27 JJ'J3 JJ'25 u·33 12·40 J2'45 12'45

5J7'0 509·7 498·4 502·4 499·7 502·5
509·2 493·6 500·7 499·6 50J'2 502·8

133

R

6 23 24 25

5

REPORT FOH 1893-PAHT II.

523

Rcd11ction of pe11dulmn obBcl'rationB, 1faBliin9to11, D. C. ( CoaBt and Geodetio Sm·vey Office).
[Poriods roduood to tomperBturo 15° C.; prossuro,
:;oo~m

nt 0° C.; nro lnfiulwly smnll; shlorNll time.]

I
Pendu!um. Swing. Period uncorrected.

Corrections (in se,·enth cleclmal place). Tempera· Pressure. tu re. ·--·-·

--Seconds.

I

Arc.

I

Period corrected. Rate.

1-.
+162 +162 +162' +143 +·43 I
Reverse Mean

Bz

IO
II

12 29 30

0·500 6710 6719 6723 6742 6748

-71 --71 -71 -74 -73

+145 +138 +134 +119 +113

+

s,·(oflds.

3 +· +3 +6 +3

I

0·500 6949 949 951 936 934

I 0·500 6944
0·500 6950 0·500 6290 300 3°3 300 310 0·500 6302 0·500 6326 327 323 323 3 24 324 0·500 6324 0·500 6313

Il3

I

2 3 20 21 22

0·500 6072 6o41 6o38 6II6 6110 61II

-78 --65 -65 -58 -58 -56

+147 +170 +167 +102 +us +u3

-13 -8 +· -2 0 -2

+162 +162 +162 -t-142 +143 +143
Direct

I

1---3~

B3

4 s 6 23 24 25

0·500 6068 . 6062 6068 6130 6134 6135

-58 -58 -58 -58 -58 -58

+161 +156 +152 +108 +106 +106

-7 + 5
I

0
I

-2

+16:.! +162 +162 +143 -t-143 +143
Reverse

I

Mean

i24

U. S. COAST AND GEODE'!'IC SURVEY.
GRAVITY OilSBRVATJONS .A.'.1.' WAIKIKI.

For a description of this station it will be sufficient to refer to Appendix No. 2, Iieport of Coast and Geodetic Survey for 18!)2. The pendulum apparatus has been described by Mr. G. It Putman in a special report by the Superintendent on the "Determination of gravit.y," Appendix No. 15, Heport of Coast and Geodetic Survey for 1891. This paper may be consulted for all details of construction a11d manipulation. A general view of the apparatus is shown in illustration No. 24. The observations for the force of gravity at \Vaikiki were begun on June 9, 1891, and continued until June 11, 1892. During this time Hl!J nights' work were obtainc<l. The determinations were limited to those nights 011 which satisfactory star observations could be made, aud the pendulum was swung during the time that the regular international latitude investigations were carried on. This made the duration of the swings somewhat variable, but the pendulum in nearly every case was allowed to oscillate for several consecutive hours. The plan generally followed was this: In the early evening, after one or two pairs of stars had been obtained for latitude, one circumpolar and several time stars were observed with the instrument in the position "clamp west." The pendulum was then started, after which the meridian telescope was reverse<l to the positiou "clamp east" and a few more stars taken. A circumpolar was obtained in the second position when possible, but this was not considered essential. The advantage of the foregoing scheme is that the pendulum apparatus llas time to take the evening temperature before beginning the swing, and that the beginning of the swing is referred to the epoch of the reversal of the instrument. The telescope was allowed to remain with "clamp cast" until the close of the night's work, when anotllcr half set was obscrvert. Inasmuch as we desire only differential rates for the chronometer, we have here the corrections determined before and after the swing almost entirely independent of the instrumental constants. The effect of azimuth was entirely eliminated by 01Jservi11g l'!tar8 north and south of the zenith. The level was directly observed, but since the instrument was not reversed during the swing, the change was inappreciable, and whatever the collimation, as there was no reversal, its effect on the difference of the clock corrections is insignificant. The instrumental constants were quite small during the entire year. Moreover, since the same stars -\verc observed from night to night the chronometer rates are independent of any errors in the right ascensions. It is believed that this work reaches all the accuracy attainable with this set of instruments. Tl10 arrangement of the time observa· tions, the method employeu of interchanging the pendulums, and the precautions taken in the temperature arnl pressure conclitiOns seem to exhaust the precision of mauipnlation, so that any discrepancies must be attributed either to the construction of the instruments or to real

U. S. Coast anrl Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II.

Nn. 24.

HALF-SECOND PENDULUM APPARATU S.

Side view (right) of receh·er. nash

apparat n ~,

etc.

REPORT l'OR 1893-PART II.

525

differences in the force of g1·avity. 'fhe principal defect in the apparatus was in the means of reading the amplitude of oscillation. At the beginning of the swing the half amplitude was usually about 1°, or a distance of 5mm 011 the scale at the pendulum point, whi~h is 297'" 111 below the kuifo edge. Aftm· an hour and a half this half amplitude had decreased. to about <P·.':i or to 3 111111 , aucl the conection to reduce the time of oue oscillation to what it would have been in an infinitely small arc is 0·000 005 G·. Now: an error of one-tenth of a millimetre in estimating· the amplitude would produce an error of rathei· more than one ten-millionth of a second iu the correction for arc, so that we may assume that thri uncertainties arising from the scale readings do not materially affect the deduced period as much as t)w milliouth part of a second. 'l'he change of gravity for a small change in the latitude of the place may be obtained by differentiating t.lrn equation
g= 0

+D

sin 2 <p

where 0 is the force of gravity at the equator, and D is the increase iu this force in passing from the eq aator to the pole, the unit being taken i11 metres. For a value of <p = 21 o 16' we get
dg = ()-0338 d qJ

A change, therefore, of 1" in the latitude would give a clmnge of

~~~~0~ 1 or <3-:fff~-OO(l of a metre in tlle \'alue of D sin

2

1 qJ or about GO 00 0 000

of the total force of grnvity. 'l'he change of' latitude at 'Vaikiki during the entire year heing sixtenths of a second, the force of gravity would not be disturbed from this cause more than 1 part in 100 000 000. 'l'he following table contains the chrouometer corrections and instrumeutal coustauts from June 4, 1891, to .Tune 11, 1892. 'fhe value of the collimation is given with its appropriate sign for the position of tile telescope with the clamp on the west side. 'l'he azimuths are given for those positions in which a <leterminatiou was made. When no stars of sufliciently high declination could l>e obtained to bring out this conRtaut, that of a preceding or following day was used and the correspondiug tabular space is left vacant.

526

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Clock rates and illstru111e11tal cu11sta11tB, Waikiki, Haicaiian Islands.
[Negus siclcreal chronomowr No. 1825. Observer: E. D. l'ruston.]
· - - · · ---------. I I. . . I A'imuth. Daily rate. I Loll'{V~uon ' - -E-.--i-----\~

Date.

Epoch (sidereal time). I
·------·-

I I

I

·
Correction.
..

I· · - · - - - - · - - s. 9·92 23·82 44·90 52·24 59·57 6·94 +3 13·54 26·02 32·37 39·14 45 ·81 52·78 +4 12·58 -26·21 32·62 38·93 45 ·53 52·42 4·89 +5
111.

----

-------- .- - - - - '- - - - - ·-·
Saol/(ls. +0·06 ·09 + ·07 ·09 ·18 .5ecrmds. +0·19 Scco11ds.

1891.
June

h.
4 6 9 13 16 15 15 15 15 14 14 13 14 14 14 14 15 16 15 14 15 14 16 18 17 18 17 18 17 17 18 18 17 17 19 17

Ill.

30
00

+2

IO
II

12 13 15 16 17 18 19 22 24 25 26 27 28 30
July

40 45 30 30 30 30 15 30 30 30 30 30 30 25 30 30 30 10
00

Seco11t!s. 6·60 7·06 7·34 7·40 7·37 6·88 6·24 6·67 6·43 6·67 6·97 6·60 6·68 6·16 6·58 6·89 6·61 6·36

-0·22 ·42

"+

·62 ·62 ·15 ·07 ·59 ·71 ·58 ·12 ·05

·25

·55
·oo ·23 ·09 i ·16 + ·12 + ·18 + ·16 ·17 + ·05 + ·10

+ ·05 ·80
+ +
·13 ·42 ·01 ·16 ·33 ·28 ·oo

+ +
+

+
+

+
+ +

+ ·06

+
+ +

·37 ·30 ·04 ·14 ·26 ·41 ·05 + ·04 ·22

4 7 8 17 18 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30 31 2 3 4 5 6 7
IO II

50 30 50 30 45 45 30
00

45 45 00 45

29·29 8·87 2·56 -0 59·20 52·26 23 ·26 16·86 10·10 2·99 4·62 +o 11·80 26·18 33·16 39·60 52·71 58·96 5·40 12·26 19·38 26·40 48·07 55·28 9·91 17·02 24·04 31·00 58·04 10·42 16·55 29·52 35·07 53·20 54·06 6·26

-2

6·64 6·36 7·04 7·15
7·20

6·59 6·16 6·90 n6 7·25 7·19 6·63 6·79 6·50 6·25 6·57 6·93 6·97 7·o9 7·24 7·14 7·34 7·1 I 7·02 6·96 6·76 6·19 6·13 6·16 6·34 6·04 6·53

·10 ·21 ·22 -I ·27 + ·27 ·15

+

-

·60

+ + +

'II

·03 ·08 ·03 ·10 ·oo ·07 ·21
·II

·03 ·21 · 12 + ·13 . 12 ·01 '22 ·23 + ·25 ·21 + ·34 *- ·57 '49 ·42 ·31 ·23 ·14 ·37 ·oo ·15 ·37 ·18 + +

·oo
+ ·13 ·19 + ·33 + ·33 ·06 + ·32 ·36 ·40 ·32 ·oo ·31 ·38 ·22 ·19 ·38

Aug.

13 14 15 16 20 22 23 25 26 29 31

18 15 18 15 17 45 17 30 18 00 17 45 17 JO 17 45 17 30 17 30 17 30 17 30 19 30 19 30 19 30 22 00 19 00 19 00 22 30 19 00

+ +

+1

·+

+

+z

+3

·14 + ·04 + ·05 ·04 ·05 ·04 + ·05 + ·05 ·03 + ·10 + ·05 + ·07 ·07 ·06 ·08 ·07

+

+ +

'II

'12 ·07

+4

-

·45

·On August 8 telescope mo\'cd eastward.

REPORT FOH 1893-PART II.

527

Clook rates and instl'umental oonslants, Waikiki, Hawaiia1i Islands-Continued.
[Nob'll8 si1leronl chronometer :Xo. 1825. Obsef\·er: E. D. l'ro·ton.]
-------

Azimuth.

Dato.

Epoch (sidereal time).
---·------

Correction

----1-IJl.

Daily rate. Col\'\.~tion ----~--I w. E.

I-

1891. Sept. 2 6 9 12 15 17 18 19 23 26 27 28 Oct. 4

h. 19 19 20 19 19 19 20 19 19 21 19 20 19

111.

00 00 00 00 00 00 30
00

-2
-I

-0

00

00 00 00
00

-0

+o

s 40· 30 14·43 14· 03 55· 59 37· 02 18· 18 4· 83 58· 63 52· 28 26· 17 6· 84 o· 06 6· 28

Stconds.I SffoJUls.

St·concls.

Seconds.

6·47 6·15 6·19 6·28 6·48 6·61 6·35 6·40 6·61 6·51 6·61

-

·12 .00

·07 ·42 ·33 ·30 ·36 ·47 ·41 ·37 ·32 ·20

·17 ·22 ·28 ·22 ·33 ·22 '22 ·26 ·29 ·42 ·60 ·60 ·60

·05 ·07 ·06 ·03 ·02 ·12 ·05 ·09 ·09 ·20 ·20 ·10

5
8
IO

14 16 22 28 30 31

22 22 2 22 22 2 22 22 2 22 22 0 22 22 22 2 22 22
I

30 34 13 30 34 13 30 34 15 30 34
00

+1

30 30 33 15 30 55
00

i
'
i i
I

+2

I I

22 22 2 22 22 2 22 22 2 22 22 2 22 22 2 22 22 2 22 23 23
I

30 54 04 30 31 15 30 32

+·3

15

46· 65 46· 58 47· 46 53' 08 53. 00 53' 88 12' 75 12·7 9 13·8 0 25'5 7 25·5 6 26· 07 51 ·9 7 4·9 9 4·9 8 5·9 9 44·6 0 44·6 I 45·2 0 23·8 0 23·8 0 24·5 3 37·2 6 37·2 6 38·2 4 43·8 0 43·8 I 44 '7 8 9·8 2 9·8 2 8·8 4 50·8 2 50·8 2 49·8 4 38·1 6 38·1 6 37·06 31·6 7 25'5 0 25·4 9 24· 90

6·43 6·56 6·41 6·60 6·51 6·60
'
,I

'43 ·08
·JI

+

·70
·JI

+ +

·13 ·09 ·04

+ + +

·09 ·13 ·20

+ +

·13 ·10 ·31

6·53 673

+
6·54 6·38

· 12 ·12

+

·15

+ +

·10 ·10

NoY.

I

I
4 6 7 8

30 38 15 30 38 15 30 37 15 30 00 02 30

-3 -2

·04 6·33 ·04 6·33

+ ·07 ·06

+

·08

6·49 6'C>5 6·29
----·

·04

-

·22

-

·32

-

·10

-

·25

-

·28

528

U. S. COAS'.r AND GEODETIC l:!URVEY.

Clock rates and insil'ume11tal consta11fs, Waikiki, Hawaiian Islands-Continued.
[Negus sidereal chronometer No. 1825. Oheonor: E. D. Preston.]

Date.

Epoch (sidereal time).

Co1rcction.

IDailyrate. l con~r,~tion
j

I

I

I
I
' -

Azimuth.

E.

w.
Seronds. ·35 ·oo

h. I 22
22 2

--111-. 111.

---s-.-l-s-··c-co-11~-:1·--~-·ec-01-zd.-s.-/-S-.e-co_n_d._s.-1'59·86 5 4·14 54·13 6. 38 '
,,1 -

22
22
2

17

22
22 2

0 21
22

0 0
I

5 5

5
23 28 30
I
I

0
0

5
Lice.
1

000 30 37 15 30 37 15 30 36 15 30 30 44 30 35 30 30 00 00 30 36 30
30

-I

-

·oo ·12
·10

I +
+

·oo ·30
·22 ·01

+

I

4778 46·74 27·86 27·86 26·75 -I

ff;~ .
1·

6·40 6·62

+

·05
·12

-

·03 ·13

+

;r;~
12·08

1·

6·52

+ + + + [-

+1·97

+1·75

I
I
i
'

00·40 00·45
-0

+
6·61 6·48 6·59 6·70 6·42
·20

·42 ·47 ·27 ·21]
·21

59·oo 53·5 1 i 47·16 I 14 '22 . 00·96
00·85
00'1 I

·14
·12

+

·18 ·67

·oo

I

·04 ·04

.FromNov.30 1

+

+ + +
+

i

+o

I

0
0

5
5
6
I

36 30 00
30

05·46 05·45 06·36 31 ·32

:

+
+
6·43

'22

·55

5 30 5 32
0
I

I 32·55

7
9
IO
I I

0
0

5
0

00 30 35 30
30

32·55 37·63 44·36
57·26

+
-

·15 ·15 ·05
·08
From Dcc.5

+
+ +
I
i

·41 ·44 ·33 ·25
·11

6·60
6·51

+

t

·57 ·06 ·26 ·36

57 ·28

I
I 0

00
00

12

5
I
l

33
30

00 34
30
30

5
17 19
20

58·52 03·71 10·17 16·78 16·78 17·99 35·84 35 ·83 37·10
48·38

6·45
6·34 6·61

-

+
-

-7- · 15
·06 ·24

+
-

·oo

I

-

·20

-

·40

-

i

I

0 0
0

30

+2
I

34
30

0
0
0

5

30
30 30

21
22

00·68 00·77 02'00 06·61 12·96 18·96
25·22 25·21

+'II
5·93
6·35
6·00

·oo

+

·53
·11

·09

23

0
0

30 33
30

6·26

+ +

·20

·31 ·15

·30
·15 ·06

0
0 0

5

30
30 38 30

5

26·74 31·89 38·47 38·48 39·82

·08

+

+

HEl'OR'l' FOR 1893-PART II.

529

Clock rate~ a11<1 -i118tl'1t111ental co11BlanlH1 Waikiki, llnwaiian JBla11dH-Co11f.inuou.
[Xng-11.~

Aitlcrcal t·1iro110111ctl·r No. 18:!5.

llhscn·cr: R )). l'ruston.]

Date.

I I I Epoch I ~ (sidc1cal tuuc).

c:c,rrcction.

Daily

rnk.1· Cotl~~!~tton ; _ - ---· I ! St·(o1zds. E.

Azimuth.

----1891.

--1-·-- --- -' h.
111.

--- - - - - - - 111.

··----~)(·tonds.

"'· ··---,---·--!
StcoJl(/s:

s.

Stt'OlldS.

Vee. 26

27 28 29 30 1892. I 2 3 5 6 10 II I:? 16 18 19
20

5 30 5 40 0 30 0 30 0 31 5 30 0 30 0 31 30 0 30 0 33 . 30 0 0 0 5 5 5 5 5 7 30 30 30 00 38 30 00 00 30 46 30 30 46 00 30 00 00

·'

'O

-f-2

45·17 46·46 46·48 51 ·52 58·00 58·00 59· 24 -i 3 04·42 04·42 05·62
w·30

·oo
6·62 6·4S 6·42
y88
·09

-: 0·17

-0·31 ·10 ·16
·32
·22

-i-

·04 ·05

·19

10·29 11 ·42 -3 21 ·94 32·31 26·30 14·64 14·64 1.1·66 08·12 46·04 40·34 40·36 39·85 34·63 34·62 3.roo 12·66 01·11 00·58 55"J:? 49·26 48·70 48·69·· 43·64 43·60 42·97 33·12 33·14 32·50 27·72 27·7 I 27·00 21·90 20·84
2o·s,~

+
-1-

·16

5·82

-·-

-I

·17

Jan.

(,·01

5'75
5"77
1·
'02

I ·13

·14

-1- ·17
·10

5·59 5 ·52 5·59 5·71
5·49
5·83

----2

·26 ·f- ·10

·oo

·I- ·10

5
5

'

·20

s

:?I
23

5 5 8 5 00 5 00 8 00 8 1.1 5 00 5 02 8 00 5 00 5 0:?
8
00

[ i · 1~J i- ·07

-1- ·15
-i·..;o

·26

-I

5·79 6·06
5·tj2

L-

[ - . 10]
· w]

[- ·w]
. !.;

·10

'·26

-- ·10
·10

I- ·08 ·--- ·25

5·.10
5·82
(1-.13

24 25 27

5 00 I\ 57 8 00 5 00 s 00 8 05 5 00 8 00 8 40
8 8 00 00 5 00 4 56
-o

·us

+

·.p

·14

09·04 08·33 08·30 33·12 3J'IJ 28·26 28·26

·21

5·87

'

'02

·21

Feh.

2

-- ·13
5 ·50

3
---------··-·

-

·10
I

··------------ _I

S. Ex. HI, pt. 2--3·t

530

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Clockrafes and i11Btr11mc11tal 1·011~funtH, 1V1tikiki, JJ11w1tiian ]Bl 11111/8--Coutiunc(l.
[Ne!!lllll Ridercnl chrono11wt()r Xo. 1825.

------ --i----

Ol>Horver: E. ]). Preston.]

Azimutl~.·-E.

Date.

(sidereal ti1:1c).

Epoch

I
I

Correction.

-·--1 ___l~ __
St.'co11ds .

___ I
j

h.

llt.

111.

8
Fel>. 4

8

00 41 5 00 8 00 8 41 5 00 8 00 8 41 8

5
8 8

00 00

-0

+o

I2
IJ

5 00 5 30
00

5 00 5 22
8 00 5 00

19 20 21

2J

8 00 7 30 5 00 5 00 4 55 8 00 5 00 5 00

4 55

-f- I

4 55
8 7 7

00 30 30

12 7 8
I I

7 37

7 7
II

00 30 IO 30 30 40 30
--3
-2

s. 27·63 22·51 2I ·72 21 ·72 I0°64 09·92 09·83 oI·o8 01 ·85 01·86 22·94 22·82 23·62 28·I8 28·24 28·84 33·31 33·32 34·11 58·5I 03 'Ol 08·02 c8·02 08·51 13·09 18·07 18·07 18·72 35·06 40·88 40·88 4I·89 46·89 46·89 47·80 52·91 52·90 53·8I
Ol

.\Cco11ds.

....,.(., (,11:1:...

5 ·75
5·93 5·86

·-·O'O->

·-·0'11 -- ·04
·oo

·02
·oo

·oo

5·47
5·24

-t

·16

·oo

·13 ·23

5·13
4''H

-

·03
-- 'IO

5·02 5·01

·oo ·oo
·oo

-1- ·06
·05 ---- ·46
·oo

·05 5·47 ·05 ·16 ·07 ·05 5·91 - - ·07

·oo

·os

-1- ·30
.... ·32

:llar.

7 30
2

7 9 7

4I
00

7
·I

5
8 9
IO

11 7 7 7 11 IO 7 7
II

7 7
I I

30 4I 30 30 30 41 30 30 30 41 30 30 40 30

'I8 ' 01 ·I9 00·84 55·44 55·44 54·55 43·45 37·38 37·38 36·41 19·00 13·82 13·81 12·84 07·65 07·64 06·68

5·74

+
·05 ·07

·23
·oo

5·88
5·9 1

·03 ·03 . -- ·03 ·05

·oo

+ +

·21 ·38

5·77

REPOHT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.
Clo1·k
1·11ft··

531

a.nrl inst1·u11w11tal co11stanl·, Wnikiki, Jlawaiian /xlamls-Continued.
{Nt·gnH Hidl'Tt'nl c11rou,11111itur
~o.

1H25.

01.iHcn·i"r: E. U. Prost011.]

Datt:.

I -E1wch-- -------~------c,--Correction. Dnilr rntc. ! . . o t\1\1~a. 11011 I I (sidereal time),
- · - - - - · - '-·--

·

E.

1892. Mar. 13 14 16 19 20 21
2.l

h.

Ill.

111.
--·I

s.

! .)~'(01/cls.

.~(·(ol/ds.

7 30 7 30
7 30 7 30 7 30 7 30 7 39 12 00 9 00 9 07
12 00

-0

7 30
7 39
II

30 30 30

7 39
II

7 3°

30 31
Apr. 6 9

7 30 7 38
11

7 JO 7 38
11
IO IO

14 14
IO

10 13 14 15 16

10 10 10
IO

30 15 15 45 58 15 30 30 30 45

5o·33 44·45 32 ·81 15·67 o9·97 04·06 04·07 02·93 52·05 52·05 51 ·52 46·66 46·65 45·7 6 17·73 17·72 16·88 11 ·96 I 1 ·98 11·06 o6·JO 06·11 05 ·28 29·39 46·73 47·74 47·73 52·58 I0'25 16·12 22·07
28·12

5·88 5 ·82 5 ·71 5·7o 5 ·91 5·82
i

-0'02

·05 ·oo ·06 ·04
·o~

i

Seconds. [-/-0·40] [ + ·40] ·oo ·25 ·25J

.\i·,.-onds.

r-i-

[ _j_

·25] -1-0·70

.
'12

·04 5·79

+

-!- ·50
·30

5·77

+
5 ·79

-1 ·

·2(,

·25
·oo

+
+

·54

·54
·20

5·78 5·85
5 ·86 5·87 5·95 6·05

+
[ _j_

[+

JO

i

k~~ t-1
-1-

·12 'JO] ·JO] ·JO] 'JO] ·10]
·oS

·40

·18 ·18 ·10 ·16

14 14
10
IO

57

18 19 20 21 23

12 I I JO

14 14 JO
11
IO

15 13 45 30 30 45

57

IO

14 14 JO 14 14 JO 14 14
JO

15 45 15 15 45 56 15 45 56 15 45 56 15 45

-I

2

29·14 29·17 33·98 33·98 34·58 40·23 45·80 46·<)0 47·90 51 ·66 52·08 57·74 09·71 I I ·04 11 ·09 15·79 16·90 16·89 21 ·56 22·73 22·80 44·57

5·9 1
5·95

-

·65

·- ·68

5·81
5·93
G·oS

L ;.

[ !-

·121

·16]

·30 ·43 ·60 ·18 ·33 ·30
·Go

-!- . 20

5·99 6·08

f- ' 1 5

5 ·77
5 ·75 5·86

··I-

·12

-1- ·20
·f- ·w

·35
'IO

May

JO

532
Clock nilcH
111111

u.
[);egu~

S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

i11strnmental conBla11tB,

Waikiki, lla1c1iiian lBllmds-Cont;inucd.
OhHcn·t·r·: E. D. Pn·Kton.]
·-·-·-· I .

Ki1ler,·al chro11onu·t('r :So. 182:;,
.

----·--·- -- - - -

----

---·

I
~

. I
Collimntillft I
\\".

Azimuth.

----1
""· ---1
!

Date.

i

Epoch ' (;iclcrcal lime).

C'orrccti1111.

'. fJ . 1 t ! a1 y ra c.

E. ---·-------

1892.
i\lay

It.

111.

Ill,

s.

.)·t'aJuds.

Se:cc>uds.

Seconds .

S.·rouds.

2 4 5 6 7 9 IO II I3 I4 I5 I8 2I 22 23 24 25 27 28 29

J4 45 14 52 JO J 5 IO I5 J4 45 I4 50 10 15 I4 45 I4 56 10 15 II 15 10 15 J4 45 J4 50 JO I5 I4 45 IO 17 IO 15 12 15 I4 45 I5 00 10 15 I4 45 I5 00 JO 15 J4 45 I5 00 10 I5 J4 45 I5 00 JI 45 q 45 J5 00 II 15 14 45 15 00 I4 45 14 45 Lt 00 J7 45 I7 57 I4 45 J4 00 17 45 17 58 14 45 14 14 J4 14 J4 17 18 14 I7 18 00
00

57'17 57'19 -2 58·21 46·80 45·70 45·69 2 40·90 39·9o 39·88 35·03 28·69 17·37 I6·22 16·23 11 ·39 !0"44 11 ·42 05·75 - I 53·74 53 ·1.5 53'I2 48·31 47'17 47"IO 42·64 41 ·45 41·43 25·I3 24·rn 24·10 07·37 06·53 06·45 m ·51 00·58 00·55 --0 54·87 49·00 43·46 .12·50 .p·5r 31·80 26·23 25·41 25·38 20·26

-1-2

5·48 5·(>6 5·90

+o·J6

--0·43

- -0·04 ·13

[+

'I5]

-1- 'I5
-1- ·07

!- ·06
·oo

+

·22

5 ·87
6·09 5"78 5·98 5·64 5·76 5·92 5 ·67 5·84 5·80 5·97 5·80 5·87 576 5'H 576 5·80 5·69 5·67 5·75 5·85 5·76 5·89

·- ·34
·20

\- ·07

-·-

·08

I- ·07

i· ·30

I- ·08

·32

+ + +
+

·08 ·06 ·07 ·16 ·07 ·15 ·JI ·23
·11

·oo
-

+

-i- ·07
·25
·22

·20 ·I6 "10 ·07 ·27

I

+
+

·30

·20 ·50

+
+
·j-

---

·J6 ·51 ·09 ·12 ·13 ·16 'J3

-!- ·12

--!- ·09
·13

\- ·08

+

·20 ·10

I··

·IQ

--!- ·04
[ -!'IO]

.,,
·06 ·oo ·oo ·33

June

3 4 5 6 7

-·t-o 07·97
13·64 19·39 25·24 31 ·oo 31 ·99 31·98 54·57 55·45 55·44

00 00
00

·r ·10

I
II

I
j

I -----------··

45 02 00 45 02

--!- ·J8
-\- 'JI

+
-\-

·07
'II

--- ·3J

Blank page retained for pagination

534

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

'fhe following table co11tai11s the Pendulum Results for 19!) nights at \Vaikiki between ,Tune 9, 18!Jl, and June 11, 1892:
l'e11d11/urn obsc1"1:alio11s, /f'aikiki, Ho110/ulii.
{Oli1'en·or: E. D. Preston. J

Datt~.

·----.. -- ---·,. -81 i-1
-5 o
0~ t:
"<3

ITime-of \
T11nc in s~·eonc 1 s.

Semi ari.

w 1r:·- I Sc) I.

c..

1,0

c E

OJ

I

tc.n Ct< 1 cncc , iutcr\'als lnitt.d I· rnal.

coi11-1

_

~S1~1~~.

Tcm- :\lanom- Barnm-! etcr. ctcr. js~~C·~l
1

Prc~11l1Jl.

I

June 9

10 10 11
II

j)

12 13 15 16 17 18 19 22 24 25 25 26 26

1;.-1 14·0 15·7 13'9 15·7 14·2 14·6 14·3 147 14·9 14·9 15·6 15·4 15·2 14.2 16·3 14·8 17·0

-24 20 20 20
20

I

62~6·0. -~6~-~-31 '~'.~- '~'.~·
5256·0 5280·0 5282·0 5303·5 8440·0 11588'0 8416·5 5244·5 7895·5 7901·0 13248·0 10564·0 10543·0 5257·5 5274·5

.------'-I __
0

1

c.

111111.

111111.

32 44 3Z 20 30 30 50 40 40 20 20 30 30

26·33 2628·0 I 5·2 2·5 25·98 2640·0 I ,5'2 2·5 24·92 2641·0 5·2 3·0 25'43 265d: 5·2 2'7 24·62 2637·5 5·2 [2·1] 25·47 2633·(, 5·2 1·2 25·42 2630·21 5·1 2'0 25·73 2(,22·2 5·2 2·5 26.J3 2631 '8; [5·1] 2·0 26·13 2<>33 7 5·2 2·2 26·18 2649·6 .5'2 1·2 25·68 2641·0 5·2 1·2 25·83 2635·8 5·2 1·2 25·68 2628·8 5·2 2·5 25'7:~ 2637'2 5·2 2·6 24·82 5·2 5·2 5·2 5·0 2.5 2·3 2 ·7 2·0

206·0 206·0 200·0 212·5 205·0 211 ·o 208·0 217·0 214·0 219·0 218·0 215·0 215·0 213·0 217'0 218·0

767·2 767·4 767·4 768·0 767·6 767·4 766'4 766·8 767·6 767·5 766·4 765·5 7(17· 1 767·1 766·5 766·9

510

511
519 5°7 515 508

I

5!0
501 5°3 499 499 502 5°3

5°5

501 502 501 501 497

B,

J)
){

7399·012466·3 7455·0 2485·0 6832·5 9140·5 2277'5 2285·1

26·28 214·0 765·4 25·12 217·0 765·6 26·43 218·0 765 ·2 25·32 21,~·o 765·6

n,
Il3

JJ
]{

50'

D

28 14·7 30 28 17·0 30 ____ 3_0--'-1-4~-~~-

7883·0 2627·7 5·1 2·5 7923·0 2641·0 5·1 12·4 7896:___2632·0 _[5·1J _ 2·4
1

26·48 212.r>;766·G 504 25·42 219·017(,6·6 499 26·03 2r,i·o. 765·~--5_0_2_

I

·'

!

REPOR'l' FOit 189B-PAR1' II.
Reduclio11 ofpcnd1iluin o/JservaliunH, ll"aikil.:i, liono/11111.
[Parlodtt roducutl to tompornturo, 15° C.; 11rui-1s11re, 50Qm 111 at
(JJ

535

C.; nro iutlttikly Hlllull; sidort·ul t.ituc.]

------------Corrections (in
~cvcnlh

clt·cim:il place).

Position.

J>erio1l un<.·orr~l·tcd. Arc.

-----·

- - - --

Period con cctecl.

Tempera.
lure.

!'r.,ssmc.

I__R:·lc. [
I

- --1
St"Comls. 0·500 9436
I

D

s,·,-nntls. 0·500 9548 531

488 '484
445 497

48 50 --50

--470 - 456

- 58
- 53
44 -31 ---42 - 50 --42 --31 ---31 --JI

511

-.p2 ---433 -399 - 435 -4J2

8 -- 9 -15
- 6
·- 12

I
I

+414 +426

442
440 416

-i-429
-- 429 -j-427 -!-427

408
439 420 410 403

(,

8
--- 211

523
55 2 517 511

-445
--470 -462
_,l(J.j

I
I
I
I

I 380
+375 i-373 -j-380

--Ali

453
484 503

- 443 -449

+~
2

+

394
397 370 387 397 389
I

528
]l

498

- - 52

-so

--143
- -408

-- 4

445

1-395 !-393 I 385 -j-372 --1-35 7 -\-370
Jnnc 17

,-----~
0·501
0020

I

.ot06

D
]{

0·501 0157 081

---50
- 47
-I

-\-382

--! 397
Jnne 26

010
015
CJ'<;Ol

D R

--53
---41

---474
-- 428

2 -- 2

+

-i-390 i 383

!___--~~
I
0·500 9380

0866

June 27 l
])

0·500 9532 48.1 517

-476 - 4.12 -458

--- 3
I

-f-376

1-369

374
386

-2

! 377

fi36

U. S. COAST AND GEODE'l'IC SURVEY.
Pendulum observations, Waikiki, Honolulu.
[Observer: E. D. l're·ton. J

"S -c ""'

~

----~~i---1--s-.Il3 D

~ ~

ci ._2 ;;:;

I
Date.
I

~

..C (.) o

- ~ ~ Time in o.·u '"C C ! seconds.

S~.!!!
0

z.5.5

interval~ ;1niti.1l.I F~~-1~ -n-otucr~~
s. 111111.,111111.1 ·. 2651·2 5·1 . 1'9 24·72 2643·7 5·1 2·2 125·12 2630·9 5·1 2·1 . 25·43 2648·9 5·1 3·0 25·33 2638·1 4·5 [1·7J 25·33 2644·7 5·0 2'0 I 26·03 2641·715·0 2·2 26·03 2650·2 5·0 2·0 25·73 2648·4 I 5·0 2·0 26·44 2653·8 5·0 1·8 26·13 2659·3 5·0 l '8 25·7,1 2644·0 5·0 2'1 26·28 2637·7 5·0 2·1 26·44 2643·1 4·3 1'7 26·08

Time of I Scmi·arc. ten comcidcnce \ - - - I- - -

I Tcm· IManom· Barom- p res· I JlCr I sure at
f [

-

cter.

ct:...r. !
:

00

---

c.

I

I

])

July 4 7 8 17 18 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30 31
Au~. 2
2

18·2 17·8 17·6 17·2 17'7 17°6 17·4 17·6 17·6 17·(, 17·8 17·6 19·3 18·4 16·9 19·2

34 30 34 18 32 32 30 30 32 34 38 30 30 34 34 30

I

9014·0 7931·0 8945·0 4768·0 8442·0 8463·0 7925·0 7950·5 8475·0 9023·0 10105'5 7932·0 7913·0 8986·5 8383·0 7453·0 9996·0 8197·0

I

mm. 217·0 214·0 183'0 2;9·0 220·0 219·0 222'0 222·0 220'0 222·0 222·0 222·0 216·0 218·0

mm. mm.I 767·0 503 767·0 505 768·8 5.H 767·2 500 766·7 499 766·6 499 766·6 496 766·4 496 766·7 497 767·0 496 767·2 497 766·2 494 767·9 501 766·4 500 498 497 497 502 490 495 494
4<)6

B,

D
R

2465·6, 5·2 2484·3 5·1 2271 ·8 2277·0 2629·2 2629·5 2639·8 2645 ·7 2646·7 5 'l 5·1 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0

I 2·2

2'2 2·0 2·3 2·0 2'1
2·2 2'2

25·98. 218·0 764·7 24·72 I 221'0 765·1 26·94 218·0 765 ·8 25·93 21(i·o 766·4 27 ·So 27·45 26·59 26·33 26·33 226·0 766·6 222'0 768·0 224 ·o 767 ·5 221 ·o 76(1·8 218·0 766·9
1

B3

D

4 5 6

7
IO

17'4 17·5 17·5 17'5 17·7

30 30 30 30 32

j887'5 7888·5 79 1 9'5 7937·0 8469·5

2·0

499

I

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Reduction of 11endulmn obstm,ations, Waikiki, Ho11olullt.

537

[PcriodH re1lt1cctl to t-0mpera.turo, 15° U.; pressure, 500"11n n.t 0° C.; arc iutiuitoly Kmull; Hitler elll time.]

Position.

1 . . . .... ,

~

. :. .

~ ,[-;:,;1,"'·:·_~~-;;;..~~m:,i"'"~
... : . .

,
- - · - - ··--

.-\re.

rc~~! ~.rn- 1

1

-

I Period corrected.

Pressure,

---------

i

,

I
-- 2

I----------- i-·--··
.~"e·t°oiuls.

:

Rate.

.~i·co11ds.

D

0·500 9448 474 520 456 495 471 482 451 457 438 418 473 496 477

-Si

=ll =m
I
1
1·

-4 . -27
0
-r-1 -i-1

-32 ---41 --44 -41 -41 -38 -38 -42 -42 --30

I

--429 -429 -458 --458 --445 ---475 --462 --445 -468

-\-385 ;-377 i-389 +412 +416
\-400

3

-\-387
-f-39(>

+

f- 3
2

!- 3 -i- 2
0

-f- 5

475
4(>0

+425 -f-435 -\-419 +401 -1-390 +386 July 17

0·500 9388 382 406 382 451 373 370 364 368 376 356 369 368 373

D
]{

0·501 0160 0083

+

t-

2

2

+3(12
--\-362 +381
Aug. 3

-1-317

I
I

0 ·501 0037 o 99!.!9

Aug. 21·_! _____
I!

1_00---;sI

J{

0·501 1029 1004

+

2 2

1--0S69
1

I

0·501 0855 0883

J)

0·500 9526 488 467 464

52 5

-41 --42

--44 -44 --41

-531 --517 -481 --470 -470

--;- s
+4

+5
\- 3 +1

+39 1 +403 -j-408 +415 -j-418

I
!

i

0·500 9353 373 376 37 1 372

538

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC 8URVEY.
J>endulwn obscr1~atfo11a, Waikiki, lfonolul11.
[Obeen·ot: E. D. Preston.]

--------------·------------·------------

·~ I
~I

Dntc.

~

$
h. 17·5 17·5 17·3 17·8 17·5 17·5

- v ~~ ~ c

6" o g~. ,
C:

t

~

Time in seconds.

! Time of ten coin1·

·1

Sc111i-a.rc.

1
.

Tern ..
Manom. Ba.romctcr. etcr.

B,

I
I

1891. If Aug. I I 12 13 14 15 16

·- -- . --s:···-··-s-.- -mm. I ,:: ~~·~ -=~"~30 7936·0 2645·3 5·0 2·0 26·59 219·0 30 ! 7916·0 2638·7 5·0 2·2 27·14 216·0 30 I 7914·0 2638·0 5·0 2·1 27·04 215·0 36 9523·5 2645·4 5·0 [1·9] 26·44 217·0 30 7925·0 2641·7. 5·0 2·1 26·59 219·0 30 7933·5 2644·5 I 5·0 2·1 1 26·33 219·0 40 110562·5 2640·6 5·0 1·7125·53 217·0 20 5270·0 2635·0 5·0 3·0 25·88 226·0 40 10548·5 2637·1 5·0 [1·7). 26·03 218·0 22 5780·5 2630·2 5·0 I 3·0126·<1+ 222·0 30 7907·0. 2635·7 5·0 2·3 26 ..lJ 220·0 38 10o:i1·012639·7 [4·8] 1 [1'7]126·031218·0 20 5287·0 2643·5 5·0 3·0 25·83 224·0

"·-·-

ddcncc ·- - - ·:--- ; ul>~~~ Iintervals. Initial. Final.'. ·

I

I

~~::~t.tl'
0

I

o

C.

·

I

-;:,-:: :::~
I 766·6 497 767·0 500 767·8 501 767·6 501 766·5 497 766·4 497 765·1 500 767·0 493 766·0 499 766·1 494 766·6 496 765·9 499 765·8 494

I

I

I

~~ ~HI
II])

I I

~~ :g:~
2'122·3

29 20·4 31 19·6
Sept. 2 : 19·5

I I
: I

ll,

IR
I ]{

I

n
D

32 32 32 32 20 40 40 20 40 42

7891·5. 2467·0 7962·0 2488·1
7273·0 7289·5

I

5·2 5·2 5·1 5·1

2·2 I 26·89 I 215·0 765·8 500 2·2125·47 I 223·0 766·0 \ 495 [2·8] 26·6:, 219·0 766·5 497 2·8125·68 214·0 766·5' 503 766·7 496 765·6 501 766·4 498 766·5 496 765·0 499 765·6 501

B, B. 1

6. 19·6 6 22 ·2 9 12 15 18 19 23

2272·8 2278·0

Il I

I

'

19·6 20·4 20·4 IC) 6 20·4 21 ·9
0

5240·5 2620·2 10536·0 2634·0 10540·0 2635 ·o 5253·0 2626·5 10562·0. 2640·5 11120·512647·7

5·0 ~3'0~ 27·19 220'0 5·0 1·7 / 2674 215·0 5 ·o 1 ·7 · 26·89 218·0 5·0 3·0 127·09 219·0 5·0 [1·7] 26·44 216·0 5·0 1·5 j 25·931216·0

"REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.
Jlcc111ctfo11 of peridulu1n ubserrntions, Waikiki, Honolulu.
[Periods reduoecl to tompornture, 15° C.;
prO:iSlll'O, nvon·u

539

n.t

o° C.;

nrc iuJiuitl'ly small; sitloren.l time.]

])

R

0·501 0154 0068

0

·t-4

+377 +375
Sept. 2

.

I"---~
979 0·500 9359 347 349 356 346 349

0·500 9992

D l{

0·501 1024 0999

---54 -·54

+2
-2

-J-366 -1-357
Sept. 6

0·501 0855 857 1---ss-6-

I i

D

0·500 9560 506 536 486 460

509

--506 -487 -493 -502 --475 --454

+3
·-I

+2 +3 +1
-I

+358 +362 +370 +375 -1-370

l .~~~--- --·· ·

,540

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Pend11/m1~

observatio11s, Waikiki, Ho11ol11/u,
[Observer: E. D. 1'rc8ton.]

~ 0
~

0

d

Date.

..d
u
0

;.:i

c..

-0 " :, ~ 8 0. "c: -c:

R~ .. vi -

~-

~-·=-·
40 40 40

_ ----- ~:~crvals l.~~i~i~l. Fina~_::
..

Time in seconds.

Iten Tt"mc of s"~ni -" ·r·· i Tcm'· ; coin-1· _ _ _ _ _ ; ) · _
1'

,

cidcncc

I

I ·t11rc I er.
: __
0

~-

Aanom- Bnrom- sure at ctcr. ctcr. oo C ______·__
111111.
11/1/Z,

Pres-

I

B3

D

h. 1891. Sept. 26 20·4 ;,.7 21 ·1 28 20·4
4

s. w598·0 10612·0 w598·0
l

s. 2649·5 2653 ·o 2649·5

'""'· 5·0
5·2 5·2

1/llJl.

222·0 766·0 495 5·0 [1 ·7 ' 25 ·43 219·0 764 ·5 497 5·0 [ q 125 ·98 222 ·o 764·9 494

[q~ 25·98

I

c.

11/IJI.

B,

D 'Oct.

B, Di
R

RI I

4

23·0 1 ·5

I

30 34

2481 ·3 2496·2 6871 ·0 8265 ·o
I

I 2· 5 . 24·97 I 224·0
2·4 2 ·8 2·3

765 ·31495 24·14 226·0 764·6 493 496 496 496 491 491 492 497 496 196 494 497 482 495

5 22·8 5 1·1
8 22·6 22·6 14 22·6 16 22·6 22 23·2 28 23·3 30 23·3
IO

2290"3 2295 ·8 2650·5 2632 ·5 2651·5 266o·o 2670·8 2667 ·8 2672·5 2476·6 2492·5 2289·8 2294·8

5 ·2
5·2

24 ·97 221 ·o 764 ·5 24·09 223·0 764-.·

20 20 20 20 38 40 40

5301 ·o 5265 ·o 5303·0 5320·0 10149·0 1067 I ·o 10690·0

i

'

5·0 [3·0] 24·92 222·0 765·(1 5·0 3·0 26·84 226·0 766·6 5·0 J"O 25·12 229·0 767·2 5·0 ~3·01 25·17 227·0 765·9 5 ·o 1 24 ·53 222 ·o 765 ·4 5·0 1 ·7 24·63 224·0 766<i 5 ·o : 1 ·7 24 ·04 225 ·o 766·5

·Sj

I

B~

D R

31 31 Nov.
I

22·9 22·6

32 7925 ·o 28 ·1 6979·0
34 7785·5

I
5 ·2
5·2

2·3 : 25·63 · 225·0 767·4 [2·4)124·48 224·0 I 767'-3 2·8 2·5 25·37 238·0 766·4 24·24 225·0 766·,J

B1 ,l> __

l~~----1-~-~2 : ~-~3~5-

!

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Reduotion of JJOndiilu.m observations, Waikiki, Honoliilu ..
[Pc· iollB rec.lucod to tompornturo, 15°
----- ---

541

u. i

prPRSnro,

uoomm nt oo c.; nrc iafiuitoly small i eitl.ercnl timl\.]

---!

-----·----------------Corrections (in seventh decimal place).

Posi. lion.

Period uncorrected.

i--------------1.----

--··--· ______ J_
.'et'o11ds.

-~~~-- _

Tet::f:.ra-

Pre~s_u:~_,_::·-/------+
+ 4
2
1

Period corrected.

D

0·500 9454 441 454

'

+ 5

+380 --j-380 +378 Srpt.19

I o·soo 9346 354 I- - - - 345 -!
t'

I

Seconds .

D R

0·501 0095 035

-414 -379

+4 + 6

+373 +373
O~t. I

0·501 0008 0 9986
0

9997

D R

0·501 0940 913

-55 --47

-414 -377

+ +

3 3

-f-376 --f-380
Oct. 5

0·501 0850 872 861
v500 9361

D

0·500 9450 416 378 389 372

446

51 5

-56 -56 -56 -56 -38 -36 -36

-412 -491 -420 --422 --395 -400 -375

+3 +7 +7 +6 +2 +3 +3 +
+
5
2

-f-376 -1-377 --l-379 +380 +381 +384 -t-384
(Jct.

352 356 324 328 340 348 344

19

D R

0·501

OII5

050

-47 -49

-441 -393

-f-375 -1-370
Oct. 31

I

o 9994

D

R

-50

-55

. --f-14 +4
:\ov.
I

I
l
I

1--~6

0·501 0837 856

542

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
l'endulmn observations, Waikiki, Ho11olul11.
[ObserYer: E. D. Prest-0n.]

:;

~ I .o d
~

't:7

.E

Date,

..C

8
c.

,~!__.=_ ·---.
1

E ;

1 ' ..... IL!!l of Semi - arc · ~ Time in I Time ten coin~ Tern- Manom· Barom- Prcs°:9 u seconds. ciclence j perctcr. eter. su!eat 0 g CJ tntervals. Initial. Final.I ature. ° C.

S i: I'

I

I

;,:i

z·- - i

I

B3

I>

189I. Nov. 4
6

h.
22·7 23·6 22·6 0·3 22'7 22·7 22·7 22'7 22'3
O'l

7 8
IO

I2 I3 I4 I5 I7 I9 2I 23 30
B. D D R

3'I 2·0 2'0 1·9 2'I 4·9

s. s. 20 5309·5, 2654·8 38 I wo68·o 2649·5 20 I 5274·0 2637·0 30 7988·5 2662·8 20 5323·0 266I 5 20 5308·5 2654·2 20 5292·0 2646·0 20 5269·0 2634·5 IO 2648·5 2648·5 40 I0724·0 2681·0 32 8605·0 2689·0 20 5326·5 2663·2 20 5320·0 266o·o 20 5330·0 2665·0
0

I

---J--- --··-,----! --111111.1111111.
5·0 27 [4·8], [I'8] 5·0 3·0 5·0 2'1 5'0 3·0 5·0 3·0 5·0 3·0 5·0 3·0 5·0 3'9 5·0 [1·9] 3·9 [I'I] 5 ·o 3·0 5·0 3·0 5·0 3·0 2·4 2·5

° C.
24·87 25·73 26·23 24·33 23·99 24·43 25·68 26'68 25·17 24·43 23·05 24·43 24·72 24·18

' mm.
229·0 223·0 224·0 222'0 229·0 226·0 226·0 229·0 227·0 220'0 230·0 231 ·o 230·0 226·0:

mm. 766·0 766·I 766·0 763·2 76I'2 764·4 765·2 766'4 765·6 765·0 766'2 767 'o 767'0 767'6

mm. 490 495 492 496 487 492 49I 488 49I 499 493 490 491 496

Dec.
5 5 6

32 30 22 32 20 20 20 20 IO

7956·0 2486·2 5·2 7498·0 2499·3 '[5'I] 5043·5 2292·5 5·2 7343·0 2294·7 i 5·2 53I2'0 5275·5 5340·0 5337·0 2703·0 2656·0 2637·8 2670·0 2668·5 2703·0

I'9 3·9 2'0 I'9
I

!

·

I

[3'2]i 25·02 225·0 76]'4 2·7 124·48 224·0 767·2 228·0 768·0 120·0 768·S 22ro 766·9 228·0 764·2 236·0 764·4

I

24·53 224·01765·6 23·44 226·01765·4

496 495 495 497 494 592 496 491 489

B,.

p

7
9 IO II

'9

1·9 I'8

5·0 3·0 I 24·77 5·0 3·0124·67 5 ·o 3 ·o 23 ·49 5·0 3·0 23·84 5·0 I [3·9Ji 20·63

·~-----~----''--------~--

REPOH'l' FOR 1893-PART II.
Reduction of penduliim oliBCl"llations, Waikiki, Honolulll.
[ Podo1lH roduce1l to temporaturo, 15° C.; pmRsnre, 500mm nt

543

o° C.;

nrc infinitely smnll; sidereal time.]

~~~~~

I ----i--·~orrcctions (in seventh dccimnl place). IPeriod uncorrected. i. ··-·-· -·--1-T:rupera - ·----]

Arc.

lure. -

-------1
1

Pcriocl corrected.

Pressure.

Rate,

-------;·· ---------------------1---·--·- --- ----·- - !----------1------1------1

;

1

I

Saonds.
])

l

Seconds.

0·500 9435 454 498 406 411 437 466 508 457 342 3 14 405 416 398

I -51 -36 -56 -42 -56 --56 -56 -56 -70 -39 -20 -56 -56 -56

-410 -445 -446 -387 -373 -391 -443 -485 -422 -391
~334

-391 -403 -381

+ 8 + 4 + 6 3 +10 + 6 +7 +9 + 7 -1- I _J_ 6 ~- 8 + 7 + 3

+

+367 +37' ·I 363 +358 +358 +308 +370 +377 + 384 +389 + 378 +383 +379 +372
Nov. 17

0·500 9349 348 365 338 350 364 344 353 356 302 344 349 343 336

])

R

0·501 0075 023

-49 -49

-;-395 -350

+
+
+

3 +4

+37' +370
Dec.
1

0·501 0005 0 9998
I

0002

D R

-61 -53

-416 -393

4
2

+373 +373
Dec. S

D

0·500 9430
495

381 386 266

-56 -56 -56 -56 -70

-405 -401 -35 2 --367 -234

+

+
+

--73 3 +7 9

5

+378 +380 +376 +368 -j-375

0·500 9352 345 352 338 346

----------

[>44

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
l'cnduluni observations, Waikiki, Honolulu.
[Ohsorvl'r: E. ll. Preston.]

I
I

~

,----1-1·--1~ -~.-;~=j-~-1 -~~- ·~11::r,:~,~O

-c~ ~ ~

~

1
1

·,

I~

!=1 ··=::-

·

1

I
Date.

1

..d
<-> 0

,.

I

c..

Bg~ I 1~ I Time in "I seconds. I o-o .·v 'o
11)

ITime of I ten coin-·
1

~C

Semi-arc. J , I Tcm- i>Ianom· Barom- Prcs1>cr l 1 surcut cidcncc I atur~. etcr. ctcr. ·· 0 0 C. intervals. Initial. Final.

I

I

1.

0

c. i

Ill/I/.

mm.
767,-6 769·0 766·8 768·5 765·8 71i6·8 769·8 110·8 771·1 770·4 768·8 7687 768·3 768·3

I
I

1

13~ : D

:::-J

!

'I

Dec. 12 15 I 17

I I

I I

I I
I 1! 1
:

I I

~ 2·7 2:: 1·4 23 1·9 24 1·9 25 1·9 26 1·9 27 1·9 28 1·9 2'): 1·9 3011 ·9

?i

1 ·9 2·7 1·9
:?·.)

2o 1 5428·0 2714·0 40 110753·0 I 2688·2 20 5330·5 I 2665·2 22 5858·0 2662·7 42 11193·0 2665·0 10 I 2644·0 2644·0 20 5316·0 2658·0 20 5327·0 2663·5 20 5339·0 2669·5 20 5347·0 2673·5 20 5330·0 2665·0 20 5326·0 2663·0 20 5315·0 2657·5 20 5316·0 2658·0 12 22 18 24 22 34 2749·0 5528·0

5·0 ·[yo] 20·00 5·0 [1·8] 22·55 5·0 3·0 2y84 5·0 [2·8] 24·09 5·0 1·8 '24·53 5·0 3·9 ! 25·12 5·0' 3·0124·72 5·0 3·0 24·33 5·0 [3·0] 2J"99 5·0 [3·o]I'. 2y50 5·0 3·0 24·24 5·0 3·0 24·43 5·0 3·0 23·cj9 5·0 [3·0] 23·94

I

I

23yo 228·0 229·0 227·0 222·0 226·5 231·0 231·0 231"0 231·0 231·0 228·0 230·51' 231 '0

494 ' 498 I 494 496 497 493 492 494 495 495 492 494 493 492 490 493 493 550 499

1892. I D Jan. I : 1·6 2 1·9

2290·8 , 5 ·2 25127 5·1 5·0 5·0 5·2 5·2

4 ·o '123·70 232·0 767 ·3 3·1 3·1 2"4 21·5 7 234 ·5 76rs

n.

ID
. l{
])

B:i D

5 1·9 51 5·2 61 5·4 61 1·3

4822·0 ! 2678·9 6461·0 2692·1 5121 ·o 7946·0 2327·7 2337·1

21·77 232·0 764·7 20·05 172·0 764·8

R

I 2·2 i 18·42 204·0 761 ·8 520
'-------'--

3·2 ~ 19·70 226·0 I 762·4

i

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -------------------

REPORT

l~OR

1803-PAR'f II.

545

Red11clion nf pcndulmn obscw1,atio11s, Waikiki, 1lo11olul11.
[ PoriudH rctluccd to tomporaturc, 15::> C. i pressnru, 500·nln nt 0° C.; aru iniinitoly Hmn.11; aidnrcal tlmo.]

--1-----:-~_i
Seconds.

Corr ---·-----cctions {in seventh decimal place). J> >Si · - - - - - - --· ·-· ------- - - - - .t · ! Period uncorrcctccl.\. I Temperat1on. I · Pressure. Rate. turc.

·- __I___
D

I

Period corrected.

Seconds.

0·500 9228 317 398 407 398 473 423 404 383 369 398 406 425 4 23

I

-56 -38 --56 -52 -:;8-70 -56 -56 --56 -56 ---56 ·---56 -56 -56

--208 -3 13 -367 -377 -395 -420 --403 --387 -373 ---·353 -383 -391 -373 -371

'

' 5 + 2 -t-5 + 3 2 6 -1- 6 ' 5 "j" -1-4 4 6 +5 +6 +6

+ + + +

+368 +368 -t-363 -l-344 -+-348 -j-363 -j-387 -t382 -1-373 ·\-384 +376 -j-372 -t-341 -j-338 Dec. 18

I ·--------

0·500 9337 336 343 325 3 15 352 357 348 331 341! 341 336 343 340 341

D
])

0·501 0937 0·500 9969 0·500 9350 304

-75 -58 - 57 -46

-361 --273 -281 -210

+ 8 + 6 6 -39

-\-333 -/-349 -/-324 -j-324

0·501 0842 0·500 9993 0·500 9342 333 338

D R

+
+

Jan.
D R

5
I

-----I

0·501 0763 720

---61 -46

-195 -142

I

-16

-/-J20 +320

I
6

Jan.
-- -------- - - - ----·

s. Ex. rn,

-

-----832 !

0·501 0828 836

pt. 2--35

54G

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
l'e111lul11111 obsen·atio11s, Waikilci, Jlonol11lit.
[ObHorvor: K D. l'reeton.]
-

-E-.---

"5 " .., c

.: .g
·;r.
0
~

Date.

_,;
0

n.!!J. , 0. " .
._ 4> :.-

u

u c" o-,, ~

--

~

"

·-·-

"" jz.5.5 ------- - - - - - 1 - ~

0 ·-" u-

Time In seconds.

ITime of [ Semi-arc. I ten coin-\---· _ cidcnce
1

, intervals. Initial.I Fin~

PresTcm- klnnorn Barom- ;...,urc n.t per· cter · ctcr. 0 c C. aturc.

I

B,
Bo

])

1892. Jan. 10
II
I

h. 5·4

8 36 30 18 20 26 8 30 36 36 28 30 30 40 24 24 22 28

s. 1981 ·o

s. mm. I 111111. 0 2476·2 [5·0] [P] 20·54

---- ---- - c. 111111. 111111. 11/lll.
55·0 763·4 658 5°3 481 491 493 495 470 496 20·45 222'0 764·4 19·90 246·0 762·8 22·51 229·0 762·6

lJ

2

6·5 6·3 5·2

9722·0 8145·0 4156·0 5034·0 6574·0 2678·8 ·8056·0 9612·0 9621 ·o 7531 ·o 8085 ·o 8080·0

2700·6 2715 ·o 2308·9 2517·0 2528·5 2678·8 2685·31 2670·0 2672·5 2689·6 2695 ·o 2693·3 268o·o 2302·9 2302·3 2490·9 2507·3

5·0 4·5 5·0 4·8 4·5 4·2 4·2 4·8 [4·8] 4·2 4·2 4'3 4·3 4·8 4·8 4·4 4·4

1 ·9 2·0 3·2 2·9 2'2 3·3 2'0

B,
Ho Ba

D

16 18 18 19 20 21 23 24 25 27 Feb. 2 3 3 4 4

D
R

6·4 8·3
5·4 6·2 6·4 6·4 6·1 6·2 6·2 6·1 5·3 7·0 5·3 7·1

21 ·23 230·0 762·6 21 ·03 228·5 762·4 22·85 253·0 763.0 22·65 227·0 765·0 226·0 227·0 227 ·o 227·0 222'0 766·2 768·8 I 769 ·8 766·7 766·8

I>

. i ·8 23·15 227·0 766·4 496
[1 ·8] 2·0 [2·0] 2'0 1·2 2·8 2·8 2·8 2·1 22·95 22·02 21·92 22·46 22·70 23·25 22·85

w720·0
5527·0 5525 ·o 5480·0 7020·5

497 500 501 498 501 495 496

B1

D R
D R

~~~:~I ~~~:~

B,

23·85 226·0 767·0 497 23·w 222·0 767·2 501

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Rcd11clio11 of pe11rlul111n oliscr1,atio11s, TVaikiki, Ifo110/itl11.
[Pol'iml~

f>47

n:tluct.ul to tumpernt.uro, 15° C. i 1u·eHHUrn 1 5QOri1m nt ov C. i arc intlnitoly Kmnll i Hidorcal t.imo.]

I l'osiI 1
· 1. ion

I

IPcttod uncurrcctcd.
0·501 0117
"

i____corrcctions ~'.'.' sc,·c~~~-~:~1-~~~~ -~ 1----~---1

,

.\re,

'

I TcmJil·raturc. 1 I

1

Prc~~urc.

I

Rule.

1

l,l·riocl corrected,'

---i---.\-{·,--o-,,-d-s.-,---'-ll
D

-- ------230
-125

I
!

-----s,.:,:-;:,h.
0·501 0009

---75

-j-322

s= ':::

::il
-59

::;::
--312

+ ';
I-j_1

j i:;
Jan.
12

I__o. 500

91~~

D
I)

7
6 ·I

0·501 0815 +336 -1-336

R

0·500 9952 9°7

·--52 --38

Jan,
D 0·500 9350 327 381 372 312 294 299 346 ... 50

18

972 0·500 9349 306 315 321 326 346 297 331

-33
-36 --36 --33 --33 --34 -·34

--326 --317 -338 ---33o -291 --287

-t-

+ +
+

24 3 3
2
0

--3IO -320

2

-j-326 -t-305 -f-313 +338 -l-373 -j-340 -j-340

-·-1 + .>J

Jan.
D R

25 0·501 0810 828

0·501 0879 882

~-

-50 50

---342 -326

+

I-

4 3

Feb. 3
.J)

R

0·501 0057 9991

--45 -36

I-

2

-j-344 -i-344

_____________________l__:b~ 41----;:;;-

548

U. 8. COAS'f AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Pendulum obBcrvati011B, Waikiki, Honolulu._
[Observer: E. D. Preston.]·
··-------

.d -3 Date. ·.i " ~{g~ . ""' "' p.. r:i:1 :l< " - -· -- -·~

Ei

0 0

d

0.

0

8~~ c:~ e;

Z·~·~

Semi-arc. Ti me of Tem- Manom· Barom- PresTime in ten coinat percter. eter. sure seconds. cidence o 0 c. ature . inte rvals. Initial. Final.

- - - - - - - - ---- s. !0714,'0 8587·0 3198·0 7504·5 7521 ·o IOI 10'0 mm. 1nni. 0 c: mm. mm. s. 26 78·5 4·4 23·40 227·0 766·6 I '4 26 83·4 [4·0] I ·5 23·15 229·0 767·8 26 65·0 4·4 3·1 23·00 233·0 766·2 26 80·2 4·4 2'0 22·42 229·0 765·4 26 86·1 4·4 2·0 21 ·59 231 ·o 763·6 26 60·5 4·4 I ·6 23·54 220·0 761·3
111111.

Ba D

1892. Feb. 6 8
II

h.

12 13 14

6·6 6·8 5·5 6·r 6·1 6·5 8·7 7·0 9·2 6·6 9·3 6·4 6·7 8·6 9·7 9·4 9·4 7·6 8·8

40 32 12 28 28 38 16 32 32 46 26 36 44
IO

495 496 490 494 493 497 494 496 496 500 497 497 498 494 501 498. 498 494 493

B, ir I )

I
B,
Ba
D R D

19 20 20 21 21 22 23 26 27 28 29
Mar.
J I

3704·0 7375 ·o 7388·5 u43r·o 6505·0 9519·0 rr655 ·5 2667·0 w717·0 8034·0 8044·5 4146·0 3687·5

23 15'0 23 04·7
2308·9 24 85·0 25 Ol '9 26 44·2 2649·0 26 67·0 26 79·2 26 78·0 26 81·5 23 03·3 23 04·7

4·8 4·8 4·8 4·7 4·4

3'3 2·2 2·2
l ·6 2·2

20·98 230·0 763·2 22·31 226·0 764·5 21 ·47 229·0 764·8 23·69 221 ·o 765·9 22·31 227·0 766·1 223·0 2.23·0 229·0 222·0 227·0 228·0 767·6 767·4 767·7 767·4 768·6 769·0

40 30 30 18 16

24·92 l '7 4·4 l ·4 24·38 4·4 4·2 3·1 23·44 4·2 l ·5 23·05 4·2 [2·1j 23·05 4·2 [2·1 23·05

B,

D R

4·7 3·0 23·40 230·0 768·0 4·5 [3 ·1] 22·95 232·0 768·0

REPOH'l' POR 1893-PAR'I' II.
Reilu.ction of penduliirn obBc1·vations, Waikiki, Honolulu.
[Period· reduced to temperature, 15° C.; pressure, 500mm at

549

oo C.;

arc infinitely small; sidereal time.]
I

Corrections (in sev cnth decimal place).

Posi- Period uncorrected. tion.

i
I I I

I

I
Pressure.

Period corrected.

Arc.
-------·-----·

Tempera-1
tu re.

Rate.

Seconds. D

I
-27 -25 -49 -35 ·-35 -2·9 -349 -338 --33 2 --308 -373 -354 +4 +3 +8 +5 +6 +2 +340 +317 +317 +304 +298 +292 Feb. +291 +291 +291 Feb. 20
10

Seconds.

0·500 9351 334 398 345 325 414

0·500 9319 291 342

I

.

I

-------302 0·501 0812 821 836 823

3II 221 325

D

0·501 0822 871 851

-58 -41 -41

--248 --303 -268

+5 -1-3 +3

--------

D
R

0·501 00§1 012

-32 -37

-361 -3o3

0 +2

+294 +294 Feb. 21

-------975
0·500 9320 358 338 335 336 318

0·500 9982 968

D

0·500 9472 455 392 348 353 341

-31 -27 -47 -27 -34 -34

·-412 -389 -350 -334 -334 -334

+2 +2 -1-5
-I

+2 +2

+289 +317 +338 -l-349 -l-349 -l-343 Feb. 26

-------334
-------0·501 0815 829 822

D R

0·501 0878 871

-52 -51

-349 -330

+5 +6

+333 333
Mar.
I

550

U. S. COAS'r AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Pe11dul111n obHcr·vations, Waikiki, Ho1wl1du.

"g ~

'a

~
-

d
·~

.9

I
1

Date.

I I

~

II

~

$
-1-89-2-. 21 9·2 2 , I I ·o 4 5 8 9
IO

o

~.E ~

o~ t .·u v

g~~I
j

second~.

Time in I ten coinc1<lcncc

--- ---,--;:,~ :-1-~:,~;-~:c: I~cm I
I [
- --

[ Obsorvcr: R D. l'rc.·to11.]

j 'Pres per-- ).in.nom·1Barom-surc;t t 1uc ctcr. ctcr. 0o C · · ! intervals.[ Initial.I Final.I u

B,
B3

DIi Mar. DI
R

-i-~ -- ---s.--[
30 16 14 40 16 32 30 30 38 18 14 16 7512·0 4022·0 8·8 9·8 11·4 9·5 9"4 9·4 9·7 8·3 9·6 8·4

s. 2504·0 2513·8

-,,~,=I 11.111~ -° C. -1 nu:,~-1111111.
4·7 4·3 4·2 4·2 4·2 4·2 4·21· 4·2 4·2' 4·2 4·2 4·0 2·1 3·0 3·0 1·5 2·9 1·8 [2·0]: [2·o]l 1·5 2·9 3·1 22·80 225·0, 767·6 22·22 230·01767·4 23·30 22·56 19·65 18·71 19·30 21·38 21·92 231·0 I 766·5 221·01765·0 236·0 764·9 231·0 765·3 230·0 765·8 225·0 767·7 222·0 767·5

=
499 495 492 501 492 498 500 502 503 488 488 489 489 493 498 497 477 500

13 14

3750·0 1 2678·6 w741·012685·2 4346·0 2716·2 8748·0 2733·8 1 8179·0 2726·3 I 8087·0 26957 10241·0 2695·0 4149·01· 2305·0 3229·5 23o6·8 3996 ·o 3012·0 4830·0 9141·0 8058·0 8039·0 8058·0 2497 ·5 2510·0 2683·3 2688·5 2686·0 2679·7 2686·0

I

B,
B,

D R
D
R

16 16

23·30 236·0 768·0 22·80 238·0 768·4

9·5

. 12
18 34 30 30 30

2·9 23·40 235·0 768·1 3·9 [2·9] 22·95 237·0 768·3 2·0 1·3 [1·5] 1·4 1·5 23·15 23·10 22·85 2y89 23·15 ·233·0 228·0 229·0 249·0 225·0 768·8 769·5 769·3 769·2 769·3

n" n I
i

__I_ -·-}-~_t_ n___~~_I g~~~::_ ~~~~:~.!-~ :1_1__:_:5_3~1-~-~-:~-~~~-~_t_:~~~-~-~_:i_~-~-:~

20 21 23 24 29

I

8·9 9·5 10·5 9·4 9·4

3·2 3·4 3·6 3·51 3·45

_

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.
Reduotiv1i of pe11dulu11l obMervatio11.s, Waikiki, Honolulu.

551

[Poriodtt rNlucod to tomporuture, 15° O. i prmht11ro, 500 111111 t\t 00 C.; arc infinitely snu\ll; sidereal timo.]

---1-- c
Position.
Period uncorrected. Arc:.

.

· ___ ···- _ l:r.ectwns

(1: ~~-v_c_:_~ l dec1m:l~~~·-I
Pressure ·

.

I

.

I

I

-----Period corrected.

I-----·· --· --------- ------ -Sapnds.
])

Tempernturc.

I

Rate.

R

0·501 0004 0 9965

-39 -47

I

Saonds.

I

-324 -300

+4 +
I

+347 +347 Mar.
2

1----979

0·500 9989 969

])

0·500 9351 327 221 162 186 291 294

-46 -27

-44
-30 -33 -33 -27

-344 -314 - 193 --154 -178 -265 -287

+ 6
l

+ 6 + 2 0 2 -2

+35 2 +341 +343 +358 +335 -!-341 -j-338 Mar. 9

-------3 25

0·500 9319 326 333 338 310 332 316

n
R

0·501 0870 861

-44 -47

-344 -324

+9
+9 +9

+ 9

+331 -t-331 Mar. 16

-------826

0·501 0822 830

D R

0·501 0030 0 9980

-42 -41

-349 -33o

+33 1 +33 1 Mar. 19

i
I

0·500 9979

1_ _

~9-'
964

])

0·500 9334 316 325 346 3 25 352 344

-24 -18 -22 -20 -20 -18 --20

I

-338 -336 -326 -369 -338 --361 -- 356

+2 +2
+18 0 0 0

+6

+343 +338 -t334 +336 +335 +340 -j-336 Mar. ::z6

0·500 9321 302 313 3II. 302 313

I-------304
309

- - - - - - - - - - - - - ----

-·-

552

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Pc11dulm1t obseruatio11s, Waikiki, Ho11olul1t.
[Observer:
J~. J).

l're·ton.]

.E

-- B,

e "' " :~ "" " p.. " p..
0 0

Time of\ Semi-arc. Ten I . Pres-. Time in ten coinper~- [Manom· Barom- sure at seconds. cidence I t ctcr. cter. 0oC " 0 c= g, ________ intervals. 1ni~=-I Final. ~~I ____ , _ _ _ _ _ · z·-·~ 1 ---·--Date.

,,,;

'". o u.!:!2 -1.1:..

"""'

O't> .. .·u~

I

I

I

1

D R
1J

1892. Apr. 6 6 9 9

11 ·3 12·3
11

"·

18 8 18 42 20 16 12 20 28 16 8 26 38 18 16 16 14 14 6 32

s. 4148·5 1841 ·o 4465·0 10532·0 5319·0 4247·0 3181 ·o 4584·5 6434·5 3961 ·o 1989·0 6932·0 10129·0 4788·5 4262·0 4243·0 3724·5 3722·5 1590·0 8478·0

s. "'"'· 2304·7 5·0 2301 ·2 5 ·o 2480·6 2507·6 2659·5 2654·4 2650·8 2292·2 2298·0

0

! """·

3·2 4 ·1 3·5
2:0

22·90 231:0 768·0 22·75 235 ·o 768·0 24'49 228·0 766·2 23·05 224·0 765·8 24·28 229·0 766·5 24·82 226·0 766·1 24·22 228.0 766.4 24·77 227·0 766·8 23·94 227·0 766·8 25·07 227·0 767·0 24·53 229·0 767·0 225·0 222'0 229·0 226·0 226·0 227·0 227·0 228·0 224·0 767·6 767·4 766·8 766·7 765·4 765 ·7 766·4 765·4 767·0

c.

I

1!ltll.

'llllll.

11l11l.

494 491 492 498 491 493 492 493 495 493 492 496 499 491 494 492 494 493 491 495

n.
Il3

R
D

·4 13·6

s·o
5·0 4·5 4·6 4·6 5 ·o 4·9 5 ·o 4 ·9

13 11 ·6 14 11 ·4 15 ,11 ·1 16 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 23 24 25 29
I 11 ·3 12·9

2·9 3·0 3·4 3·1 2·7 3·2 3·1

B,

D R

n.
B:i

In
R
D

11 ·3 12·3 12·5 12'2 11 ·5 11·4 11·4 11 ·3 11 ·3 11'0 12·4

I 24 7 5 ·6
2486·2 2666·1 2665·5 2660·3 2663·8 2651·9 2660·4 2658·9 2650·0 2649·4

__ J

May

2·0 24·04 4·6 1 ·8 24'33 4·6 2·8 24·77 4·6 4·6 3·0 2 4·33 4·6 3·0 25·17 4·5 [2·9] 24·33 4·6 3·0 24·53 4·6 4·1 24·58 4·5 [1 ·8] 25·63

I

---- ----·--··------·

-----

REPORT FOR 1893-P.AR'l' JI.
Reductiu11 uf pc11clulu111 observations, Waikiki, llu11ulul1l.
[Poriocls roduced to tumperntur<l, 15° C.; 11r68sure 1 fiOOmn· nt
- - - - 1- - - · .. ···------- - - - · - .
!

553

o° C.;

m·o influitoly small; sidoron.l timo.]

----·-··------------·---------

i

Corrections (in seventh dccimul place).
i -

' Period uncorrcctc1l. :>osi· :
1011 ·

I
Seconds.

I I____
1

Arc.

Tcmpcratur.:.

i

1

-

-

,

Period corrected. Rate.

Pressure. i

---- -----1------------·-· --.--,------------- ---Seconds.
J)

R

0·501 0871 888

-S9

-73

·---328 -322

+5 -17

-1335 t-335
Apr. 6

0·501 0824 835 830

J)

R

0·501 0099 0 9990

-394 --334

-i-339 -t-339
Apr.

i

o·soo 9987 \_ _ _ _9_S_6__ 972

91

J)

0·500 9418 436 449

-+-7

-t 340

-j-6

-t-6

+34S -t-35 1
Apr. 14

I

0·500 9332 l 329 1 _____3_6_7343 '

j)

R

0·501 0930 903

-·57 -so

+6 14

+343 +343
Apr. 16

I_ _ _ ~
823 o·5oo 9993 975

o·so1 0817

0·501 0119
·H.

})

"" I ·-,, Q·500 9395 I --34 --37 397
415 403 445 41s 420 4S2

--59

·-418 -39S

t6 +6

-1-34S -l-34S
Apr. 17

I -48

I
I

-

- - .. -

454

J~''_ -~·:

-so -so -48 -so -67

-375 --387 ---405 -387 --422 -387 -395 --398

-!·I t1
+5 16

+3

1·337

~-344

l-3S3

I 347
l·3S.l +33S -t-334 +34° +318
Apr. 25

+s

+6 +7

o·soo 9323 321 ' 322 318 I 332 320 31s 334 302 I_ _ _ _ _
. 1

--H

i
I

I

321

554

U. S. COA8T AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Pendulmn obsi.,·vatio11s, 1Vaikiki, .lfo11olu/11.
[Observer: E. D. Preston.]

:g

~

Ig
l :~
Date.

.d

__::_ -=-- ---· __ r.l _ ~~~=ll 1 D
R

El~

g
o.

ts g~ Time in ten coin-: _ _ _ _ re. I Tem_per0~ ~ seconds. cidence inal. Rturc. ogc _, _ _ linter:~:InitiaL ~
Time of Semi-a

I

I I

Munom· eter.

llarom-1 Presctcr.

1s~!c~t

----

1892. h. May 2 j 11 ·2 2 12·9
4 4
II·4

14 26 16 22 14 14 38 16 14 ::?6 16 18 26

s. 3186·0 5940·0
3992·0 5518·0 3744 ·o 3762·0 10164·0 4249·0 3722·0 6900·0 4222·0 4099·0 5937·0
I
I

0 c. s. 1 mm. 11llJl. mm. 2275 ·7 5 ·o 3·6 26·28 225·0 767·0 492 2284·6 4·8 ' 2·8 24·97 221 ·o 766·71498

,,,,,J-::;:·
I
496 498

n,
Ba

D

12·8
\ II

2495·0 2508·2 2674·3 2687·1 2674·7 2655·6 2658·6 2653·8 2638·8 2277·2 2283·5 2468·8 2486·2
,,.,.,

5·0 4·9 4·6 4·6 4·5 4·6 4·5 4·6 4·6 5·0 4·9 4·9 4·9 4·6 4·6 4·6 4·6

3 ·3 2·9

23·20 225·0 763·8 22·46 223·0 763·8 225·0 227·0 226·0 231·0 231 ·o 231 ·o 227·0

I RD

5
6 9
IO II

·4 II ·4 12·4

II
11
!

·5 I

13 14

·7 13.. 3 11 ·5 II ·2 12·8 u·4 13 ·1 13·0 13·0 13·6 14·4

3·1 23·10 3-'1 22·16 1 ·5 23·94 3 ·1 24·68 2·9 24·72 2·2 I 25·17 2·9 126·33 3 ·1 2 ·8
2

764·7 497 764·8 496 768·1 496 768·0 490 767·2 490 768·4 490 768·4 493 493 496 494 514 498 501 502 499

B1

D
R
])

15 15 18 18 21 22 23 24

26·13 226·0 768·5 25·17 226·0 769·0 25·42 225·0 766·1 24·67 205 ·o 766·4 221·01766·9 219·0 767·9 219·01768·3 224·0 770·2

B, B,

R D

16 I 3950· 0 32 I 7956·0 f
i

3·1 ·1

. _______l___ I _____

32 I 36 9554 ·o 42 ! II154·0 20 I 5305 ·o 1

"'''·o

2653 ·9 2655·7 2652·5

1·9125·63 1·9 25·32 I ·5 25·27 3·0 24·67

I

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'r II.
Bed1wtion of 1w11dulu11i obBervationB, Waikiki, lionolttlu.
[Poruuls ro<lucod to tempm·u.turo, 15°

555
Hitlol·t~nl

c. j proesuru,

5{)(.)lllln

nt o0

e.; nrc iniluitoly Hlllllll;

t.imo.]

i;osi-1
ion.
f

I

Correcti·nrn (in sc\·cnth decimal place).
Period corrected.

Period uncorrccterl.1- - - - __I____ - -i - --------·---·, Tempera- I , , Arc. : lure. 1 rcs~urc. Re.le.
I ---- -

-----1·----

_I _ _ _ _

I ..... 1 - - - · - - - - - . - - - - - · - - -

Seconds.

.

D R

o·so1 1010 I 0967

-65 --So

--468 -414

I i

+

Seconds.

6 + 2
~lay 2

o·so1 o8II 833 822

])

R

-6o -S3

+
-336 --297 -371 -402 -403 -422 -470

+3
2

+342 +342 May 4

I-------968
!
976 o·soo 9319 328 314 313 312 32 9 308 318

o·soo 9985

D

o·soo 936S 321 364 432 421 439 492

-S2 -S2 -29 -s2 -48 -39 -49

+3 +3 +8
+

--i-

2

+

8 +8 6

+34° +3S3 +347 +3 2 7 -l-334 +343 -l-3 29 May 10

]) j{

0·501 1002 I 0972

-S7 -SI

+

+

6 3

-l-339 -l-339 May 15

]) ]{

0·501 0147 07s

-s6 -41

-II

+s
May 18

0·501 0000 0 9958 0 9979 0·500 9326 310 310 333

I>

o·soo 9454 438 432 443

---3S --3S ·--30 --so

-441

--428 --426 -401

+

2

I
2

+1

556

U. 8. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Ptmclu/11111 ol1Bei'Vatio11B, Waikiki, Ho11olulu.
[ OuRon·cr: K D. l'restou.]

~

-g

~

--1_----------

I ·g i
:E
·~

Date.

8
h.

~ l~-~.S:
--,--

1~ ~~ i ~~",,;~,~ ! -~~~i-urc. l T~cnr'." ~:E ~ct..:onds. l
"·
Time in \
. -----1- --

_ ciclcw.:c : , I re , ctcr. linter\'l\ls.:Imtial. Final.I u u ·

i
I
,

!Munom·ll Barom· l·~~~d etcr. C
0

o

· 1

I 1892. B3 ID May 25 26 28

15·7 42 11175·0 \ 2660·7 14·41 20 5300·0 2650·0 15'7 I 42 . II167·0 2658·8

I

I

.
·1

s.

·

------

-; ··---- - - - ; · - - - - - - . - - - · - -..

s.

.

111111. :

mm.

° C.

111111.

111m.

mm.

I
!

4·7 · 1'4 4·7 2·9 4·7 1·5 4·9 5·0 3·5 3·3 3·0 3 ·o 2·1

24·62 \ 217·0 768·5 505 24·92 224·0 768·9 498 24·68 214·0 766·2 i 505

I

ll, ll,
B"

n
D :
D
1·

June

3 4

i 14·7
14'7

16 16

3655·0

2284·4

25·02

I 225·0

766·4

i 495
495

3953·0: 2470·6
4243·0 4235·0 7421 ·o

25·12 226·0 767·6

___ J _____ _:L_
1_1 _

5 14·7 16 7 1471 16

I 265 '9 I 2646·9
l
1

I

4·7 4·6 2650·4 I [4'4)

25·12 244·0 767·6 477 25 ·48 227 ·o 767 ·9 · 493 25·48 225·0 767·8 495

I

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Rednction ofpondul1111i obBervatio11B, Waikiki, llo11olul11.
[l'orio!lH roduco<l to tompornture, 15° C.; prossure, 5QQmm nt o° C.; nrc
lnflnltol~·

5fl7

small; si<lcronl time.]

Corrections (in seventh decimal place).

Position.

Period uncorrected.
j

----·-------------------A re.

! 'l'cmpcraturc.

) i I rcssurc. I

R

Period corrected.
1

ntc.

D

Seco11.ls. 0·500 9414 452 421

--,~~2~ -so --31

---399 -412 -402

----4--i,--~333 !--0~;~~1:;·15
+2
4 -l-333 -;-336

I l\lay 2s
))

------;o-I
j I

325 320

-62

+ 4·
-420 +4

+329
Jn11c 3

o·so1 0823

l~ol 0823-0·500 9998

0·501 0140

---60

-i-334
June

I

.~ 1--0·500 9;g0·500 9330 326 325

0·500 9445 463 450

--52 -so -36

--420 --435 -435

-i-18 -j-6 +4

+339 /-342 -j-342
June 8

,----;-7

558

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Pendulum No. 3 was invariably swung in the direct position. No. 1 aud No. 2 were used both in the direct aucl reverse, when possible. In order to reduce the resul~s to the same conditions, a correction is applied when only one position was obtained. 'rhis correction is deduced from all the reversals during the year, as shown in the following table:
Di.(fe1·ences bctw.,en f.lte 11criuds of 11e1ullll11m8 JJ, a11d JI" for tlte dil·ccl a11cl
1·e1Jl1·sc

posilio118.

1--==---1-.- D~R
1·- -- 1891-1892. June 26 Aug. 2
1·

Sept.

4

s. To·ooo 0010 -f38 -f26

s.

---o·ooo

0010
28 02 22 19 18 08 18 14

;,;;. :
Yeh.
Mar.

!11
3

~ :!
+ +
+

21 I 16 3 16

I

Apr. J\lny

I~

I

+ +
-t

29 14 20

I +

18 17 42

~~

~~
l:Z
22

13
j

~·~1ns /+o·~~----=;;·0000015

----·-·-· - - - - - - - ------ ----- - -----------1

The signs remain the same throughout the year, aud we have a mean value of
8.

for B 1 (D-R)=-0·000 0015 B 2 (D-R)=+O·OOO 0024 The correction, therefore, to reduce those observations made in the direct position to the ml-an of those made in both is
8.

I

+O·OOO 0008 for B 1 and -0·000 0012 " B 2

REPORT FOR 189!'!-PAR'l' II.

559

These corrections being applied, we have the following table. Mean values are taken for those periods during which continuons observations were made with each pendulum:
----·-~

-·-- ----------

--------

B1
·-

-

-________ T______
Pate.
Period.
·--

lh

-r
I

N~I

i

Dale.

Period.
. -··----- ...

of I No.I

11891-'92. Jn11e 27 Aug. 3 ~ept. 6 Oct. 5 Nov. I Dec. 5 Jan. I 6 16 Feb. 3
Mar.
20 I

.\{·(·01uls.

0·501 0871 869 856 861 846 838 850 832 823 819 831 822
~26

I I:~:·. l~~~.-92~1
2

_____[ ________
B,
Date.

of
(JhS,

Period.
·-

-----

I _____ ,
I .,

No. of ohs.
------

-16 17 18 9 14 19 2 2 8 6 6

.~i.·,·,111ds .

2
2
2

2

2 2
2

June 26 Ang. 2 Sept. 2 Oct. 4 31 lkc. I 2 Jan.
IO

2
2

18 Feb. 4 21
:\far.
2

16 Api:.

2
2

6

16 May 2 15 June 3

!
;

830 823 822 834 831

2 2 2
I

19 Apr. 9 17 :\fay 4 18 June 4

0·501 0015 I 0018 0 9979 0 9997 0 9994 I 0002 0 9981 0 9997 72 76 75 79 64
72

i2
2

2 2 2 2 2 2 2
2 2

84 76 79 86
------·--·--.

2
2

2

---· ___!___ _________ ·-·

--· ·---·- ___i__________

..\(yo11ds. 1891-'92.1 Jn11e 17 J 0·500 9410 July q 380 Ang. 17 364 Sept. 19 350 Oct. 19 344 Nov. 17 346 Dec. 18 341 Jan. 5 338 12 329 26 324 Feb. 10 302 25 334 :\1ar. 9 3 25 25 309 Apr. 14 343 321 241 May 9 318 320 24 Jn11c 8 , 3 27

7

7 7
3 9

7 7
3

Uomparing the preceding values with the respective mean values for ench pendulum, we get the following differences. 'rI1e column headed (t) gives the exce8S (minus) or defect (plus) of the observed period of the pendulum over the mean value for the year in units of the seventh decimal place of sidereal seconds. The following column, headed (g), gives the excess or detect of the force of gravity, the unit being one ten-millionth part of gravity. The sign plus indicates in this column that the observed force of gravity at the given date is less than the mean value for the yea!'. The fourth column gives mean values and dates for successive groups of three:

560
1

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

--,--I

0-·50--: o8'--i\l-c-an-v-:l:l-, s-·. 3

--1--,.,~o "'"~··o·---./.
fi·

I
Mean

Date.

\_':__. _

-~ l~an~~i~ Date~
I June 26

/ Means. /

1891-·92. June 27 Aug. 3 Sept. 6 Oct. 5 Nov. I Dec. 5 Jan. I 6 I6 Feb. 3 20 Mar. I 16 Apr. 6 16 May 2 15 June 3

11891-·92 - - -- -

l ----,I~~:-~~~ --1---i---Date.

!_________

val~~
I.
f

0·500

9338'.

I

Ii·

:\leans. [

-33 +132 A 2 -31 +124 ..lug. -18 + 72 -,-·I09 -23 + 92 Nov -08 + 32 · 3 oo -f-4 1 -12 --f- 48 Jan 8 +o 6 - 24 _·12 +rs- 60 +I9- 76 1 Feb. Jo -l--07 - 28· +I6- 64 -S 6 -j-12-- 48 A .., +08- 32 pr. -t-IS- 60 -47 -t-16 - 64 M 7 +04 - J6 ~z~ +07 - 28 .>

oo

-291+116 Jul I ' Aug. 2 -321+128 -l~~ Sept.· 2 + 71- 28 ' Oct. 4 -II+ 44 No'" 1 3I ----08 + 32 I Der. I 1 -161+ 64 + 4 7 ! Jan. 2 :+ 51- 20! Jan. 10 J JO -11 + 44 I 1 56' -Io 18 +14--1Feb. 4 +10!-- 401 1 21 1+I1 -- 44,. Feb. 9 !\lar. 2 -t-07 - 28 ·-37 Ig -t-22- 88 A S Apr. g -t-14- 56 pr. 17 +02-08 -Sr May 4 ++1071- 408 May 191 18 0 1- 2 __ .., June 4 oo -3

June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec. J an, Feh. Mar. Apr. M - ay June

I

ool

1

I

·

I

17 -721+2871 Jul J 2 J4 -42+I68i +~ 86 17 -26 +1041 19 -12 + 48i Oct. 19 19 -06 24· I7 ,-08 + 321 +35 181-03 + 121 J an. 1 oo oo 5 J2 +09 - 36 -o8 26 -t-J4 - 56 IO 1+36 -I44i' Feb. lo 25 -j-041- 16 -7 2 9-t-13 1 -- 52: M. 27 25 -f-291 -1161 at. 14 -05i-!-49 249 ++107i- 68801.May 16 2 --66 24 +18[-· 72 8 1+11'- 441

+

20\

I

f

Th() above variation:;; of grnvity are shown graphically in illustration No. 2!J. Tlw .o;;mallest square ill the diagra111 represents 011e millionth part of gravity, and fot· this arg-umeut the plotting is lloue to the uearest line in the <liagram. For the time argument the nearest day is plotted, four days representing tbe space between vertical lines. From the observations at \Vashiugton cited in the first part of this paper, it appears that the time of oscillation of the pendulums was decreased on accou11t of use between April, 1891, ancl December, 18921 by the following amou111s:
s.
0·000 003!)

17

17
It is assumed that this cha11go took place during tl1e time the pendulums were in actual use, that is from June !l, 1891, to October 1, 1892. The above decrease in the periods correspond to an increase in the force of gravity of
HHJ millionths of'

u for pendulum B
" "

1

6·8 6·8

" "

" " " " " "

B2 B3

Supposi11g that this effoct was proportional to tlw time, we have the following table, which gives the apparent increase in gravity aft~r cor-

z

0

!:! ·

\

I I

~
I

I*
I w
I I I

f .'*
I
"I

I

I
I

~

:::;
I

/

..
N

i

f

3~
I

.'>
~

*'

I
I

"
~

I

.....

~

>
4

~!"... t:J
..;_
o-

I!<.

.......
0

,.:·z

-

7'-~ /
\
'\

i~ ' 0 ~ I ~

~

. I
\

~ I <:::: r--.....of* I I

v.'~ ....... N!
~

*' \.. -.
I I

~

:E

'

--

<

~.~

..

I "' ' ~ i

I .;. !
! "..
en
I

~ ~
~
~
00 I ~I -

'---,-

\....... \
0

r-... '.

,\'*

z < ..,
I

.NIN

....

I

I

I

1~
J

\
~!

-~ ...... ~

\ I

-

~

a..

.

r-"'
0

~

..
~

~~ -·- --

~

~ 'I

'*
I I

'\

~
I
\
I

:]
~

"'

I.\

,,v
I
I

)

'I
I

\ ' I
I I
\ I

\.

\

\

"'<

~ :::>
-29

u

0

..

..,lil z ::> ..,

~~
~

1~
&;

\

I
I

<... ............
r .:
~

"'ik

~

"')..

... .........
I

! (') ~
~

\\

I

'

I
-H+!

r

~
'-~
\

i

...........

o:;

~

&;

"

........

-

ui

:::i

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PART II.

561

rectiug for wear of the knives. These· values are plotted in illustration No. 25 aud are indicated by the sign ~:

I PenduI
lum.

··-·-·--- - ··--·--·--·--

I
j

Date.

-- ·--· -··-- ------ - - Ii d;;. I D11ys frn1~T E~:~-.~-·! ~pparc1~=
,June 9, 1891.I wear.

l~lti;~·,,; I -:.°'
ra~~~I ~ i~ Feb. 18 ...... 56 Apr. I 47 ~fay 17 - 36
2

-__

5_4__ .__

:-·~-·-·-:126·+ +
+ + +
-

l crease of g.

1

I
B,

254 2 98 343 52

~i;

t i~ +
+

83 97 +111

+~?
79 68

27 50 + 75

! Jul; i Nov. Jan.
Feb. Apr. May

31 / 1
10

+ 72 + 47
10

215

145

19 5 19

-

37 51 23

2 55 301

345
33 132

Jan.

July Oct.
Feb. Mar. May

12 19
1
IO

+186

-

+

35

8

27 16

72 49 66

206 246
292

342

·········----- -·. _J _____ .

+ 21 7 + + 31 + 36 + 43 + 49 + 5 + 19 + 29 + 35 + 41 + 49

21
I

+

8 26

-f-191 -- 37

+ 21
-

I- 54 8

17

After -c;hus correcting for wear we then have au increase of gravity, between July, 1891, and May, 1892, of 5 millionth::; fo1· B 1 5 " " B2 21 " '' B 3 giving an average of 10 millionths for t.he three iwu1luln111s. 'l'his is .equivalent to a, decreaso of 41i 0 ·1u-oo of a sec01ul in the time of oscillation of a, half:seco111l pe11<lulum. When we consider that all three pendulums indicate a, ·slight increase of tho force of gravity, it is worth while to examine the conditions uwlor which the work was clone. 'l'he influences bearing 011 the result were in several respecti; such that their effect 011 differences of the force of gravity would be entirely eliminated when comparisons are made between ouservations made one year apart. Auy effect Oil the time of oscillation of the pendulum depeuding on the influence of climate i;houl<l be the same at the same season of the year. The influence of te111pernture on the rate of the chronometer and the effoct of erroneous indications of the tl.Jerlllometer consequent 111,011 the failure of the pe11duh1ms to take the temperature as soon as the mercury in the thel'Ilioweter, although varying- with the i;eason, should Le 11eurly tlw same for June, 18!11, aiul .Tune, 1892. These conditions, moreover, change but little throughout the year at Waikiki. The star places can not affect the character of the result, siuce the same stars weie observe1l for time lluriug several months, and the identical oues were used fdr the work of June, 1891, and ill the determinations
S. Ex. l!J, pt. 2-36

562

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

twelve months later. It is trne that the wear of the knives was per ceptible during the year, and that this effect on the time of oscillation of the pendulums il't the same as would be product>.d lly an increase of the force of gravity. But the effect of wear will not 11uito acco1111t for the observed decrease in the period or the pm1dulums. In fact, the oliserved decrease in H1 is more than three times that attributed to wear. Illorcov~r, we must 11ot lose sight of the fact that this effect was deter111i11ed by a comparison of the times of oscillation at Washington before and after the work at Waikiki, and that thi.'1 naturally assumes that the force of gravity at \VashingLon was constant during the year, or at least that it was the same at the time that the two determinatiorn; were mllfle. This may or may not be the case. Iudee1l, there is, a priori, no more reason to suppose a variation at 011e place than at the other, except the volcanic nature of tho ii;;la11ds, and the effct:t of wear would pl'Oliahly best be estimated. by co118ideri11g alone the Waikiki observations in which one of the pe11dulnms was swu11g so much rnore t.han the other two that the effoc·t of wear 011 these may he neglected i11 the comparison .. Pendulum No. 1 n.11d pe11dulum No. 2·were each used on 11:) nights, while pendulum Xo. 3 was used 011 lli3 nights, 01· iu the proportion of about !J to 1. 'fhe weight. of all the pernlulums being the same, the agate knives being of the snrne material, and. the support IJciug i1le11tical, we should expect equal effects for equal amounts of work, and a tolerable accurate estimate of the effed of use may be had independent of the vVashingtou comparisons. 1t h; well known t.lrnt the effect 011 the time ot' oscillation of the wearing off of the kuifo and of its blu11ting am in opposite directions. ln tl1e first case the pendnlum is virtually made longer and he11cc oscillates slowm·. Jn tlie latter tlie effect is to malrn it oscillate more rapidly, so t11at there is some compensation in the total effect. \Vhatever may have been the effect of m;e, as regards the amount to uo attributed to each of t.11ese causes, tbe pen<lulums do not seem to have tliverged from Pach otl1er more than a few million tbs of a second dmfog the year, a1ui there appear no progrmisive changes depending on the time, wl1iclr should he the case if these changes were a function of the we;u-. 'l'he following t.able gives a comparison of the JlC1Hl11lu1m; at thos~ times during the year wlrnn a change was made from one i1LHt.rnr11e11t to the other. ~ince U1 a.utl B2 were swung I.Jet ween the times of swingi 11g R: 1, tl1e mean value of 133 bPfore and after is com1i:tre<l with each of the other.<>. The unit is one ten-millionth of a r;idereal second.

.

HEPORT FOR 1893-PAH.'l' IL
Cu111pm·ison of po1r111/11111x,
lThn 1111il i:ot in I.ho
~o\·1·11th

563

th·cirnn1 pln1·0 of a t-1idt:renl Ht·1·01111.J

.
113

--·--·-·

Dute.

Mean.

--

l>~~~~.1'R.

n,

I:

1)~~~11{. ~

n,

.
I

H1-H 3

I

------'

1891-'92. June 26
Aug.
2,

9398 70
51

Sept.
Oct. Dec.

4
·I

50 40 42 38 29 14 25 27 24 08 48 18 18
22

31
J
2

44

Jan.
Fch.
Mar.

10 18
3

20
I

16
Apr.

16
2

9

9377 63 53 56 48 48 38 29 28 05 39 22 12 30
22

9388 66 52 53 46
44

!\lay June

18 4

24 18 28

40 34 28 10 32 24 18 19 35 21 18 25

10015 18 9979 97 94 10002 9981 97 72 76 75

;9

rn871 69 56 61 46 38 50 32 23 19 31
22

1483

1503 1504 1508 1500 1494 15 JO
1498

64

72 84 76 79 86

26 30 23
22

1495 1509 1499 1498 1508 1511 1488 1501
151(>

34 31
.

1506

--·-1502
I

·-- ·-·--·--

:'II cans
D(Oi:n·11ccH fl'Om 1111:1111 1"1/nc,
Date.
II - II
I

!

'

650

B -B
3

l>atc.
i

' '
-j-23

B 1-B 3

B 2 -B 3

Date.

I
I

B 1-B,

1891. June 26 Aug. 2
Sept.

-j-19
·-·-

Oct. Dec.

4

4 31

_________

3

2 +s +

---- 6

I 2

--

+23
2

2

-·-·
,._

+

\- 6
8

1892. Jan. 2 I ... s 10 I· 4 18 -f 7 Fch. 3 7 20 I 3 lllar. -1- 4

1892. 9 + ·-·IJ
(, + . ll>
,.

I

:'llar. 1\pr.

J{J

~

16 I

9 I
2

·-·

:\lay
June

__

7 +5

18

I
I

·1-14

6 9

-f-.i
- 3 -j-1

·~

-1- I ·- 14
4

-- 5
-11

I

-II

The fact that the pcmlulnms were 1iot swung at the same station in \Vashiugton before and after the work i11 the Ifawaii:rn ls]a))(ls can hardly thrnw any nucertainty on the 1:0111pariso11s l>eforn and after the cxpeditiou. The con11ectio11 was made by the tPIPg-raphic method, the penduhuns being swn11g si111nlta11eonsly a111l tlrn greatest discrepltltey of t.110 period of individual swings from the mean value was only one part in two and one-half millions. It does not seem that the corrections for amplitude~ trnnperatnre, atmo!;phcric pressme, 01· rate of chronometer could be in error 1mflicie11tly to aceon11t for the change of gravity uoticed at Waikiki. Even supposing- that the coeflicients were not strictly accurate, or that the amplitude scale was not true this Wonhl not intlucnce relative gravity, Hince the corrections wern <'alculated with. the same constants throughout. 'l'hc rate of the chrn11om-

564

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC

~URVEY.

eter was determined eaclt night from star observations aud also from observations before aud aft Pl' the gravity dPterminations, in order to detect any irregularity in the rate during the iutcrval from night to night. The result of this investigation was that greater irregularities were found in the corrections for rate, but it is doubtful whether these variations were really in the movement of "the chronometer or whether the pcriocl of two or three hours was uot so short that they came from uncertain tics in the co1-rcetio11s themscl ves. U uder either supposition, however, tlie result for the Yatiatio11 of gravity for the ,year is unchanged, because when we apply these corrections, dedtWl!d from determinations before and after the pendulum work, we get practiciilly the Hamc result for the periods of eontinuous work with each pendulum. For example, for those periods when i1:1 was swung continuously we have the following difforences i11 the rate eorrectious by the two methods:

1---·---· -·Oct. Nov. ])cc. 5 4

--! -··--·

-·--··-1

lo

9
20

Oct. 30 :'l:ov. 30 lJec. 30

II

·

+

\-o·~·o 0007 05
01 11

Jan.
Feb.
~!ar.

Jan. 27
Feb.

6
23
21

14 /
I
I [

·I-

::!<)

5 5
__

Mar.
~lay

1J

31

I I1-

08 06 08
07

Apr.

19
21

~Jay

28

141

IO

08

12

~1c~1 _·

I_

+o·o:io

o~\

lt appears, then, that w·c can uot ex.plain the progressive change' in period llm·iug t.hc yea1· by using clock corrections computed from 1>l10rt intervals extending over the pendulum work for each night, and that on the average the concctious for i,;hort intervals do uot differ materially from those adopted from tlw daily rates. It is now worth while to sec wlmt a. change of.~ 00i 0 ,10 or a second in tlie perio1l of the pendulums represents i11 the detcnniuation of the period and in the correct.iom; that arn applietl to it. In order to have a convenient stanllanl of reference, this effect was calculated for one· millionth of a second, and we have approxi111atelyA change of (HIOOOOl" in the deduced pel'iod i::-1 produced by au error of r; l'.leconds ill uotiug the coi1wille1;ce between the chronometer and pendulum (i;wi11g oue hour lo11g); of k mm. in estimutinJ.! both initial and final arcs (i;wiug from half amplitude, /;.('mm. to 3·0 rnm.); of 0°·~5 0. in notiug the temperatnrn of the pendulum; of 12 mm. in uotiug height of manometer; of 0·:!· pm· day in the rate of the chro110111eter. An c1-ro1· of 4 ,; 1-,-1000 of ii seeo11d iu the pendulum period wonld imply mag11itudes at leai:1t twice those gi veu above.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
HIGH AND

565

Low

WA'l'Eli AT HONOLULU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS, FRO::\l JUNE

17, 18!H,

'.l'O JUNE

30, 18\)2.

V ARIA'rION OF TIIE SEA LEVEL.

In connection with tl1e variations of gravity, if such variations really exist, it may not be out of place to show the Yariations of the sea level. No ordinary movement of the tides, l10wever, can i;:ensibly affect our results, l\.S has been shown both theoretically all(l practically by several eminent authorities. (See Ilelmert Theil, 11, pp. lH, mt;; Thomson and 'l'ait, Vol. I, Part II; vV001lwanl Bullet.in No. 48, IT. S. Geological Survey, etc.) Professor \Voodward's equation is
dg :lh · ·> · ;.;u = .odL...>

01·0,
0

<fJ ( H)

cos ~ (} <l f:J

.

where

g = aeeeforatiou of /!l'nVity. cl'= dc11sity of superposed mass. 6 =mean density of earth. r = ra11ins of earth. h <p ({})=thickness of snpmpose<l le11ticnln.r masR at angnlar distance fJ from center of mass lhq1(H) = h 1 for f:J=O]. 11 1 =Jim i ting angle of fi. If we take <fJ ( H) =cos 2 and fJ 1 = H0° we l1ave

<lq
fl

~ h o fiooo ·. = 2 .- ··· coP.20cos~Htlfl ro.o -

1 If .?:. is ta.ken equal to : "'ives . the above e11uation ~ 6 (j
d,<J
g

= }

IOr

h approximatdy

which showR that a wave of the above form 111m'lt he 21 feet hig·h in order to change gravity by its ten-milli011th pa.rt. 'fhe following table gives the times or ltigh and low water at Honolnln, together with tl1e reduced height. 'l'he local mean civil time is given, the hours counting from midnight. Interpolated Ya.Ines are given in bracketR. 'l'he heights refer to the 111em1 sea level for the period he tween ,June 17, 1891, and .June :30, 1892. 'l'his mean sea level ii-; derived from all the staff rea1li11gs for the period un<lcr consideration. 'l'he table has been fnrnishe1l by the Tidal Division in the Coast and Geodetic Survey Oflice from recordH sent by the Hawaiian Government Snrvey. l\ir. C. ,J. Lyons, in charge of the Government Survey Office at H<;nolulu, has called attention to the existence of a relation between the variations of latitude aud the change in the sea level.

566

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Jligh a111/ /ow water, 110110/u/11, llawaiia.ii Islands.
,..----,------------------------·-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - llighlwatcr.
Date.

_; ___

-~;'.;'~·___I _hc1ght.
1891. June 17
h.

r~~~~~l I R<.:t~uccd , r~c~~:I \ Rcl~ucetl
: time.

1.''..~. w~er~-

.

\ Date. i--High water.

I

Lu\\' water.

..:~t~ i
F.·d. ·-· 1 ·oo ·--0·50 ·-·I 'JO --o·s5 ··-1 '00 -0·60 --1·20 --o·So - 1·2s

I

I

I

r~;';,\~'.1.

Cor-

CorReduced r~ctetl height. I tune.

I Reduced
height.

i

111.1

h·d.

13 30 0 10 181 13 30 19 0 30 14 10 ~o o 50 15 oc1 21 1 2 3o
22

+

-1 23 ·1 4 20 -· 0·651 o 30 - 1·10 1715 1-1·20 9451--1·3511 24 ! 5 20 -·-O'SS I 0 30 - I 'IO 17 S5 -j-1·15 9 35 --1·30 2s 6 25 --0·55 1 30 -1·15 t [18 3S] [ 1-1·05][10 35]'.[---1·00} 2(i [ 7 30] [ -0·35].[ 1 55]1 L--1·20]

i :~ l~

+0·60 ---0·15 -j-o·Ss -0'20 +1·15 ... 0 .. 10 1 ·20 -o· 5o

;- ~~!~

1

h. 111. S 45 19 30 S 55 20 40 6 30 21 15 7 30 22 30 sis

~~ -~~ I --~:~~· 11--i7-:~;~ ~~:]! ~-:~~li[ :~-i~-~ --=~~~~l--I I 45~!f
18 [ o o·oo 1114001'[-t-1·45 19 ·[ I 35 [ 0'00 . 14 30 +1·65 20 2 25 o·oo I 15 00 1·1'70 21, 3 :w o·oo
'.
1

1891. h. 111. [ Fat. / h. July 12. 9 4S -0·05 I I I<) 50 -f-0·30 12 13 JO 00 -t-0·151 3 119 30 -j-o·zo 15 14 11 20 ·t-0·55 3 21 40 +0·20 I 16 15111 30 j :-o·So [ 3 [22 45)I [ i 0·05)L 18 16· , 3 oo +1·00 1r 4

111.

I

I

45 30 S5 20
00

40)'[-0·75~

so

I

Fed. -o·Ss -0·25 -0·75 , -o·rn -0. 7S --0·10

20J

50] [ -0·20 c--0.70 ,

1

. I

27 28 29 30 July,1
2

C ~ ;~)1' [~~:;~),/ _ I~-~~ ::::r:~~-11-1
20 30 9 30 21 40 IO so 22 oo 1230 22 S5 124S -f-0·70 ··1·(1'20 -1-0·45 +0·45 +0·30 +0·75 +0·05 ·i-1'00 12 30 3 20 '5 10 4 IS 17 10 44S 17 so ,5 10 -0·70 I --1·25 Ii -0·4s 1 -1·20 1J ---0·30 I, ---1·101: --0·30 II

22 23 24 2s 26

2 '! ~i-:1 +~-~: ! ~-~~. ~~:~~ 16 30 ·I 1·50.

'[ 6 35 f-0·65 [2200 [-0·401· [ 7 2'.J) [·-· 0'i5 . 22 30 -0·451 8 oo --o·8s I 23 00 ·--0·50 I . 8 30 --0·85 ·

5

IO

;~ !~ -:i:i::~ :~i~ ~~~:li_,1 ___ 27
I

--l'IOll

15 141s 4SI 2 00 14 SO 2 50 I is JS ___ 6Li 7 4 20 16 30 8 5 00
9i
IO

31

~~ ~--~:~~

-0·30 6 40 ··-1'20 -j-1·rn 2130 --0·95 -o·so [ 7 20) [---1'20) +1·35 22 45 -0·751 -0·40 8 00 -1·1s -1-1·30 23 oo - -0·70 :1 8 30
o 20

I

IE-- t~~1~_11:~-~~11-~~:~
II 30 +0·7s 3 00 21oo['+o·rn11645 12 20 -f-1'10, 4 IO 22 .JO --0'10 i 19 30 12 4S -1-1·30 I 4 JO 23 40 --0·15: 21 oo

17 45 6 IS 18 15 640 18 4S 800

--o:os I 40; +o·rn +1·2s 1 +0·20 +1·00 l-0·30

+'

0·15 10·10 0·1s rn·4s
)'JO

IO

45

2

IO

-0·55 ---0·80 --0·70 -o·Go -0·70 -0·40 -0'7S

I

28 29 30

._~'.~1-~_\1.

11

18 6 18 8 19

I& :~ :::.-~:~~ g ~~ =~:z~ :11 20 +1·00 I IO so --0·7s JO ' -0·20 I so --o·6s I 30 to·75 I 11 30 -0·7s
II

--o· 35 +1·40 --0·15

9 IS 0 00

31. 13 2s --o·6s 11 Aug. , I · 2--,5 T -o-·26 .-··-c00 --0·65 . -1'00 'ti I 14 10 I +1·45 :~21 4S [-0·45]1 ·--0·7s I 2 ~ 2 25] -0'25l' 6 40 [---o·6sJI 3 [14 4 [ 3 [IS 5 [ 4 15

~;_-,:3~ \ 2~ ~~ =~:~~

-0·75 -0·05 -0·70 ·-0'10 -o·6s -0·30

tlj ~~ii ~~:~~ .f 2; ~~ ~=~:g~llj
SS] 35)1 20JJ oo]'I 45 +1·35. 22 -O'IS . 8 +1 ·25J,L22 -0·15] 8 -f-!'15 23 30 [--0·55 00 I L-o·s5 25 [-o·ss 45 -0·50 20 -o·60

I

oo 50

-0·1s ·J-1·10

2 oo \ --0·85 II 00 --O'SO

I

I

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
lli!flt a11d low water, J/0110!11111, Ilawaiian l·l11nrlH-Co11tiuucd.

567

Low water.

Dale.

rcctctl : Retluced time. ~ height.

Cor·

i

Date.

Corrected time.

Reduced height.

1891. Aug 6

111. .l<t·d. /1. /II, 4 15 -o·w 9 30 16 40 +1·00 71 5 30 -0·05 o 30 17 15 -f-0·75 9 45 I 6 ?o] [+o·~s] o 3S 17 _,o . -f-u·So w 30 9 6 45 I +0·20 I 00 18 00 -f-I'OO 11 SO JO 9501-t o··o 1 50'

h.

hd,

--·o·(i5

II Aug.31

i

1891.

h.

Ill.

P,·,·t.

h.

11/,

.frd.

81[

1·

II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19

l~-jci --~~~:1~ 1;-~~ -~:~~~~ - --511~ ~~ :~~:~~14 I 17 3 18
20

-·o·6o -0·55 --o·ss ---o·zs -0·4s --0'20 -0·50

2
3

4

2 15 15 00 2 40 IS IO 3 w 15 so 3 45 16 10 4 z5
IO

I 0·40 +1·70 +0·55 i-1·70 1-0·60 -1 1 ·so j-0·70 t-1·60 f-1·00

6 45
21 40 7 50 22 10 8 30 22 30 9 00 22 50 9 30 IO 30 23 30 I I 15

---0·30 -0·15 --0·45 -0·15 ----0·40 ---0·20 --0·40 --0·25
-0·30

__:__: _ _s~ - --~'·!:() __
·-0'35 --0·55 --0·15

19 45 , +0·20 II 00 1-o·(io 19 oo i-o·w II 30 l-0·85 22 30 -0·10, 12 30 -j--1 ·15 23 20 -O'IO
1·

·15 50 00 15 15 40 oo 50 30
o6

4 20

1.1 I 14 2

+0·30 15 40 -1-1·75 20 4 20 -f-0·45 ----- _1_6 30_ - +I '7 5
:: 1

:~ E ::~:~
3 15

IO 00 IO 20

21 4 I-I ·30 - 21 -0'20 5 +1 ·45 21 -o·IO

17 30 +1·25 _____ ______ [15 oo] [-f-1'70][22 oo] (-0·50] 6 40 -f- I '00 0 20 ..--0·55 17 3 15 -j-0·70 9 JO -O'SO [18 1sJ.[-t-1·05][12 20][ o·ooJ 15 50 +1·60 22 30 -0·55 24 [ 7 3S]! [ i-l ·10J![ 0 SS]! L-0·50] 18 3 55 +0·95 9 20 ---0·35 19 00 +0·85 113 35 . +0·30 i 16 30 + 1 ·45 22 30 -0·70 25 8 30 +1·2s I 30 I -0·40' 19 4 40 +1·30 10 40 -0·30 19 :io -t-0·50 16 o:) : +0·25 j _______ 1_6_5()__±_~:IS- ~.?-_-::-()_!~~ ----2&-10-1·5 +-1·40- 2-·30i --0·4s' 20 +1·40 1140 -0·15 530 20 45 -t-0·40 17 30 I +0·25 17 30 +1·05 23 20 -0·50 27 11 40 -f-1'45 3 IO -0·35 21 6 30 -f-1·55 21 30 +0·20 18 50 +0·05 17 50 -t-0·80 12 45 -f-0'20 28 1200 +1'50 415 -0·30 22 730 -t-1·55 000 -0·30 20 20 --0·10 17 30 +0·45 15 00 -t-0·10 29 0 10 +0·20 4 30 - -0·40 23 9 00 + 1 ·50 0 50 -0·35 13 20 +1·65 ~o 30 f---0·10 I 20 20 +0·20 16 30 +0·15 23
·1

i !~

tr:~ ;~ ;~ ~nr ;·- --::1~; ~r-1r:~~T2 rn- =~~1r
..

8 23 9 _23

:i ~ -~n~ II
30 05 JO 30 -o·So . -0·50' --0·65 ·1 -0·55

-f-0·15 --o·so o·oo --0·60 --0·05 - 0·60 -O'JO - 0·65 ----=-0·40 .. ----0·75 ' -- 0·50 ! -075

6 7
8
9

1

17 17 6 17 6 17 7 18

5 30

JO II 12 13 14

~~ E ~n:H i :~: ~~:~~
i

30 30 0 10 50 12 30 40 0 30 45 12 30 00 0 00 oo 15 oo l·g-- 20--1 +i-:1.n- I JO +0·40 I 16 30 9 50 IO 00 -f-1'30 ! 2 30

-t-1 ·05 -1-0·80 -j-0·95 1-I'OO ;-o·So ·f·l '10 -j-0'$5 -j-- I ·05 -t-0·40

--0·40 +0·10 -0·30 -f-0'10 --0·40 _t()·I_5__ --O'J5 -t-0·20 ---0·30

1

1·

12 30 0 40 13 20

I

4 _,o +1·60 20 30 -f-l '20 5 IO +I ·6o I 20 40

-0·30 -0'10 --0·30 -0·35

___:_ .: ~~ £~- ~1 ~ _=:1~ :i J ::::: I +: i;_.i ~ ... =:::

568

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUlffEY.
lfiglt a11d low w11fc1-, llo110/111u, lfawaifrw 1Hla11tls-Coutinnecl.

High wntcr.

Low waler.

Datt·.

Reduced i Corheight. I rti~~~c.l.

I

·1

Reduced
height.

Ii. 11/_ .1891. Sept. 25, 10 30

I
I

--j-0·20 0 IO II 50 -1-1·40 27 o 45 -f-0·45 1230 +1·40 28 I 50 +0·45 13 w -t 1 ·45 29. 150 +0·55 ______ ._14_00 ,__ +!_.:i_o

2J

.he/. -1-1·30

"· "'·

3

Oct.

~ i ! ~~ Jr:J~ :-:~ ~ r~H~ - ::, I~ ~~ -rr:H I~ ~ --~:~~ I 15 05 1-+ 1·20 2I 20 -0·651 I 12 10 1-1·00 I~~ I -0·50 2 3° I +0·95 9 IO -0·50 1 27 ! 50 I 0·50 -0' IO 15 IO +1 ·05 21 45 -0·60 :! 12 45 ! 0·90 19 15 -0·70
1
1

2 45 18 40 4 IO 20 30 5 45 2030 6 45 20 30 7w 21 oo

1891. - -0·10 ·<let. 20 ----0·20 21 --0·20 --0·10 22 ·--0'20 --0·25 --0·30 23 o· '5 24 -o·so
Fed.

i

;,_

Ill.

-o.-!o'

10 50 6 45 18 JO '0 I ·' 2230 8 25 23 50 945
~

5 30

;__ I ·45 1-0'IO --j-1·45 -0·05 +1-.;o -0·10 -;--1 ·30 0·05 i1·10

; ..~·d.

I
·1'

-- -- I - - - Ii.
I::?
Ill,

I
I

_/<{·t'/.

05 i 22 55 14 00 23 30
I(>

--0·20
---d·70

--0·25
-0·30

.W

--0·20 --0·25 --0·25 --0·15

0 15 17 30 130 18 30

-:-_():_Ji_

1

1

·

1

1·

3

I

6

20

3 - 3 45 I '5 45

429 __ I 5' 5 oo I +1 ·35 11 40 -0·25 -30: 2 35 I 1-0·90 :> 15) 16 40 I +0·80 23 00 -0·50 :1 [14 05] [ +()'(>o] [20 25) 61' 540 +1·40 1230 --0·10131[305]L-11·15] 900 11 20 +0·65 23 20 - 0·50 I 14 50 +0·60 20 50 7· 6 30 -j-1·30 ___ _. __ ::I Nov. 1 3 30 -l-1·40 9 40 0 00 I 18 20 +0·30 14 15 \-0·45 21 00 5 00 8: 7 IO -f-1·35 0 00 -0·45 I 2 11 4 00 --1-1·40 II 00 18 45 +0·05 15 oo -0·20 16 30 -1-0·30 I 21 oo 9: 830 -t-1·20 OIO --0·40 3 420 -j-1·40;1230 I 20 30 -0"(),5_ :_1~_3<_?_ --0·15 I I 16 15 ::t?'_3_()_; 21 40 ---ioJ'IOoo · +1·20 1 oo _:_:_c,---;-3ci-, 11-1·50 12 50 4 -5 36 23001-0·05 17 50 ---0·45 , 16 40 -f-O'IO 21 50 1111030 +1·35 320 -0·3od 5 610 --1-1·40 1430 ----18 30 1-0·50 I 17 30 , +0·10 2I 3o 12 o 45 ! +o·w 4 45 -0·30 6 7 oo +1·45 16 40 11 50 I +1 ·35 19 30 - -0·70 I 19 15 - 0·10 22 20 13 0 20 ! +0·25 6 20 -0·45 I 7 8 00 +1·30 17 00 12 35 +1 ·45 19 45 -0·75 19 30 --0·15 22 40 14 I 30 -j-o·6o 7 IO -0·50 8 9 30 --j-I'20 ----_!3_ 20_ i_±!_·30 ___ 20 30 --0·75 I 22 45 ---0'10 17 .JO 15! 2 00 +0·75 - g-30---=-c;.45-.!------9,-1,-00"1·-+1·40 -2-45 i 14 05 +1·25 21 00 --0·80 11 ! ----18 00 161 3 IO + 1 ·00 8 45 --0·55 IO 0 00 : +0·30 3 IO I4 50 --t-I'20 21 20 -0·851 IO 30 I +1·30 18 30 17 3 45 --j-1·30 lO 10 -0·45 II 0 30 +0·50 5 30 ' I 15 20 -1-0·85 21 5o -0·95 11 so J +1·IO 118 50 18 '[ 4 IO] [+1·40] II 00 -0·50 1 12 2 00 -1-0·90 7 10 16 15 -t-0·50 22 oo --o· 9o I 12 oo -f-o· 9o 19 15 19 4 35 --j-1·55 II 551--0·35 ,. 13 I 30 II -f-1·15 'I 8 00 I6 40 +0·20 22 30 --0·75 13 00 +070 20 00
'11·

Ii,

1~ I_ _±~:~~ --~~J~ -=~:~~

+1 ·15 +0·90

IO 00 22 oo

-0·40 -0·55

II

281

i I~ )_~ _J~:[,~ '1[2~ ~~- - ~:~~--

2 00 13 20

+0·65 I 7 00 +0·80 _ 20 oo

--0·30 --o· 7o

I

i

I

1·

-

1,-0·3oj [ -0·70J -0·30 -0·10 -0·50 -070 -0·25 -0·60 --O'IO ·=0·70 -o·IO -0·55 --o·IO -o·5o -0·20 -0·30 -0·30 I --0·25

_:_·c;-:-i-5~
-0·25 -f-O'IO -0·30 -1-0·05 -0·55 -o·I5 --0·60 -0'20 -0·65

-0·45

l

'------~-------'----------- ---·~- ·---·---- ·----------'-----------'---~

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
High aud low watl'I', llo11olul11, 1lmrniia11 JHl<t11d·-Continuod.

569

~

lligh water.

I
].ow water. C

I
Date,

1

!_
, ('

IJigh

\\at~~-

Date.

Cor-

r~~~~~I

Rccluccd height.

----1-rc/~~c~l ~- i---J Rcc~ucccl
time.

I-_
;

~~o~:· =~tcr.

:. · : height. .

1--;~:~1~
Nov 14. 2 45 13 30 15: 3 50 I 15 30 1(11 3 50 I 16 20 17 5 50 ! 1700 18 6 IO

--Fed.

I
hd.

1-- --·,;-- ---- __
J.<·ct. -i- I ·oo
h.
11/.

I ~or-

rti~t~~:I

, I Reduced 1 height. '

r;i~,~~~t

Cor-

I

Reduced height.

!_ _ _
II

1-9 ;__!_~ ,:~-i-- ~~::~- --~: ~~- =~~~~-11-------14 F~-;::~ c$~;~] .c:~-~~J _l=~~~1 18 30 -0'20 2J 20 -0·55 14 50 -O'IO 20 30
--l'IO
·1

-f-I ·30 +0·40 +1 ·60 +0·30 +I'60 +0·05 +1·65 o·oo -f-1'70

h. 11/, 9 IO

. 1891.1 h. 111. --0·20 Dec, 9 IO 00

hd.

20 IO 21 II 2I 12 2I I3

oo 45 15 30 00 40 15 45

-0·90 -O'JO -0·90 --0·35 --I '00 --0·40 --0·65 -0·50 '

I

IO -0·05 20 I -0·60 IO i 0 30 i-0·75 00 +0·15 : 11 w +0·70 00 I ~-070 11 I I 45 ' -t-1·20 00 o·oo ; I I 30 -t-0·55 50 -0·75 12J I 50 +1·45 s oo \ -0·15 [1235]f-f-0·35~[I925][-0·85] 13 [ 2 30] -1-1·50 L 9 20]1[--0·35]

4 17 6 18 7 18

i

7 20 I +1·25 15 55 -0·45 ' 15 3 50 +1·65 20 IO --0'10 23 50 --0·30 II 15 50 -0·05 21 8 oo I +1·25 15 45 -0·45 16 4 30 +1·75 20 45 -0·05 23 10 --0·20 15 45 -0·05 22 8 45: +1·20 ------' 171 5 15 11·60 23 451 +0·05 t(J 40 i -0·50 i 17 20 -0·05 21 9 50 -i 1 ·co 3 oo I o·oo 18 · 5 30 ·/--1·60 _·_I_:_.::_:_:_ _:::_-:_-:___:: __!_L!~'- ---0·40_ _ ___ _I_! 7 30 1--~_?O 24 ! o oo I +0·25 5 oo ! +0·05 19 6- 30 -1 t- I ·40 II 00 +0·80 17 45 --0'45 18 30 -0'10 25 100 ·f-0·50 530: +0·05 201 730 +1·10 II 30 -f-0·70 18 00 -0·40 1[19 45] [-f-0·05] 26 I 20 -\-0°80 "00 +0·05 21 ( 8 oo] [ t-0·95] 11 20 +0·60 18 30 -0·50 20 55 +0·20 27 1 50 --j-1 ·oo 7 45 --0·10 22 8 30 +o·So 12 15 i +0·60 19 00 -0·40 22 40 +0·30 28 2 35 -f-I ·25 8 30 I -0·05 23 9 co +0·45 13 30 +0·30 19 45 -0·55 -~ 300· ·+1 ·30 ~-1----:--::_o-30. --24i ___ I 00 -t--0·25 I4 00 -f-0·05 20 15 -0·80 9 30 +0·30 JO 4 05 --j- I '30 IO 30 --0·30 25 I 15 -j-0·80 15 20 +0·15 20 30 I -0·65 II JO --t-0·15 1 Dec. 1 3 50 1 ·50 II 20 --0·35 26 1 40 I +0·90 15 20 +0·10 21 00 -0·60 12 15 t-0·10 2 5 IO -j-1.70 12 15 -0·35 27 I 50 -f-1'15 15 50 +0·05 21 30 -0·7511 l[13 I5] [-0·05) 3 515 +1·60 1245 -0·45 281245 +0·85 17 oo o·oo 22 15 -0·80 14 15 -0·15 29 4 --20
I'

+

I

!J ~~ - ~~:~~ -~~ ~~
+1·50 -0·05 --j-1·40 +0·05 +I ·30 +0·20 -f-1'20 -j-0·35 14 0 15 2 I6 30 50 30 20 40

5· 7 00 I 18 30 6 8 00 19 50 7 8 30 20 40 8 8 30 23 30

14 40 23 00

-0·55 ·1 30 [ 3 --0·50 1(15 -----31 4 -0·60 ' 16 -0·35 I: 1892. -0·50 Jan. 1 5 -O'IO' 16 -o·6o [, 2 5 I7

=~:~fii-- 1 I~ ~~ I-~~:;~ -~~ j~- --=~:~~ 45J'[t-1·50]:[11 15] [-0·45] I 30] [ +0·05] 21 00 -0·15
25 15 -j-1·55 +0·35
II

II 20 -0·55 20 50 - l '00 12 15 -0·60 21 25 -1 ·oo 12 30 -0·60 22 20 --0·90 13 10 -0·60 22 5~, --:-(,)_~~5_ 13-45 · -0·55 23 00 -0·50 1420 -070 [23 45] (--0·35) -----14 55 -0·55 o ~o -0·20 16 00 --0·65 3 50 o·oo 17 00 . -0·70 - 5-301 ---0'10 17 45 -0·80 6 30 --0'10 18 00 -0·95 7 40 -0·35 18 30 --1·05 ( 8 45) [-0·40) (18 55) ( -l'IO) 945 -0·50 19 20 -1·rn

50

21 30 12 30 22 IO 13 00 22 40

-0·25 -0·50

I

15 30 50 50

+2·10 -0·30 -f- I '40 -0·25

-0·90. ·-1'15 ---0·85 - I '00

-----'---- - - - - - - - - ' - - '- - - - ' - - - - - - ' - - - - - - - '

570

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
lliyh a11tl low water, JI011olulu, l/atvaiian /Hlamls-Continue<l .
. --------·--------·----------------II ig-h \\'atcr. Low water. lligh water.
Low water.
1 r~~ ~~: 1 I Rc1~ucccl time. hc1g-ht.
I

Date.

--·-· -I
Corrected
Rccluccd ·

Date.

time.

hoight. '

rti~i~~~l

Cor-

; Reduced ! height.

i
Feet.
I

·-- I892.
/1.
Ill.

-·---

1892.

Jan. 3
4

5
6

7
8

Ii. 111. 6 30 I8 45 7 00 20 00 7 50 21 30 8 30 23 20 8 30

/·£·,·/. +I"20 --0·20 +1·00 -O"IO -:-0·80 +o·IO f-0·65 f-0·60 0 ·55

Ii. 111. 13 50 23 40 I4 00
0 IO 15 IO 2 I5 15 50 4 30 16 00 (; 50 16 30 8 I5 17 20 9 45 18 40 10 00 18 40
II JO 20 00

I

F,·,·t.
+I·35 -o·z5 tI·50 --0·20 1-1·40 -t-o· IO 1-I·40 t-0·10 +1 ·30 +0·25 -t- · ·oo 1-0·50 +o·ho +0·60 +0·35 +0·65

·oo I Jan. 28

3 30
15 40 4 30 16 15 4 30 16 50 5 IO 17 50 5 50 18 JO 6-40 19 30 7 I5 20 30 7 50 22 00 9 30 23 30
9 00

- o·So --0·90 ·-0·50
0·80

30

+

-0·15 31 --0·75 1-0"IO _-Feb. I --0·65 ii

9
IO II 12

IJ
14 I5 16 17 18 I9 20 2I 22 23

20 ·1-:i:1·00 00 f··O".)O 30 i ·I- I ·35 20 l·0"05 30 f·l '35 15 . --0·15 IO i--I·40 I5 .. 0·30 2 55 iI·50 I5 00 . -0·25 345 +i.·70.I 15 45 1-0·10 4 IO -j- I ·60 I6 I5 +o·I5 4 40 +1·50 I7 30 o·oo 5 30 -j-I·30 18 30 -1-0·05 6 I5 +.1·IO

0 IO 0 II I I2 2 14

o·oo ,.
-0·70

2

Ii. 111. F.-d. II 00 --0·75 2045 -1·15 II 30 --0·80 2I 30 ---1 ·30 II 35 --0·80 22 00 .. 0·95 12 30 -0·85 23 00 -0·85 I2 55 --0·80 23__30 --0·75 I 3 20 - ....::.o~SS

~-=-~:~~ . -0·40

I
1

3

II

4

II 00 21 JO
12 00

-:!i-~-1 ±~~~ti
7 20 7 23 8 23 9 20 30 50 I5 IO I5 20 20 45 IO 45 30 00 I5 40 40 00 +0·85 ·t-0·20 +0·70 -t-0·25 ·f-0"20 f-0·55 +o·IO

21 I2 22 13 23 13 23 13

40 45 IO
00

·-0·95 . 0·65 . --- I ·05 0·70 I ·05 I -0·50 0·80 - -0·50 -o·So . -0·70

5

o·oo
+0·85 -0·15

0 30 13 30 2 00 J.j 10 6 IO 15 00

30 15

=-~~ :~~ I
I

55
40

-0·75 · --0·75 --0·40

- - - -- ---- --- . _ .. _I
24 25 26 27

I

0 9 I 11 I I3 2 I3 2 I5

0 00 ---o·6o 14 20 o·oo I 30 --0·65 15 00 -·O'I5 4 00 ---0·75 14 50 o·oo 6 00 --0·70 15 50 .-0·25 +0·65 ! 6 40' -0·80 -0·15 I 16 30 8 00 -f-0·80 --0·35 --o·95 --0·30 17 40 --0·55 +0·90 9 15 18 IO I --I"OO --0·45 IO 00 I --0·65 +I "IO -1 ·05 --0·40 I9 00 -0·75 +1·20 --I ·05 -0·35

=:::: -·~:1

.. -1i -

I~ j~ I

!

·00 7 I 0 20 I I I 30 -O"JO I 20 +1·25 8 I 13 00 -0·35 ·f-I ·20 9' I 50 I4 00 -0·25 2 15 -1-1·15 IO I 14 40 --0·25 330 -t-1·25 II 15 45 -0·20 3 50 +I" IO 15 50 -0·20 4 20 -t- I "00 I 16 4'0 --o·IO 14 4 45 -j-1·00 I7 30 -f-0·15 15 5 20 +0·90 18 00 +0·30 .J6 6 20 +0·65 19 00 +0·40 6 -00 +0·55 -0--1019 45 +0·40 I3 15 18 6 40 -j-0"20 I 30 20 50 +0·35114 00 19 6 30 o·oo 2 30 21 20 +0·50 14 00 20 8 50 --0·20 ' 5 40 23 00 +0·55 114 40 2I [ 9 40] [ -0·30] 6 40 [23 35) [ -t-0·65)[IS 35];

_.I

61

7

00

+1

I

15 30 8)0 I6 20 8 45 IS 30 9 I5 I9 20 IO IO 20 00 1040 20_50 I I 00 21 30 I I 30 21 30 II 50 22 IO i 12 151 23 30 13 20

-0·30 -0·90 o·oo --0·85 -0·05 -0·70 ---0°IO --0·75 --0·45 -0·75 -0·50 -0·85 --0·70
-·I

·oo

- 0·70
--!"JO

--0·90 -1_:1.s_ -0·90 ---I ·30 -0·95 --1·00
-0·85

--0·70 -0·70 --0·50
--075

!

I i I ------- ---- --------

----- I---~--

--0·40 --0·80 --0·30 -0·70 -0·20 --0·75 --0·20 -0·75 [ 0·30] [ -0·80]1

REPOHT FOR 1893-PART ll.
lligh a11d low walcl", Ho11oluln, Hawaiian lsla11ds-Cont.i1111ed.

571

---·-----------· · · - - - - · - · - - - - - - - - - · - - · - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - - - - 1

I
Date.

lligh water.

I

Low water.

High wntcr.

Low watct.

I~~~~~!
h.
111.

_______ · __ time:_

Hcc1u ccrl 1 1 _

10:~·-l. ~mc~-1

\-~~:~~~! I ;{1-cd1:1cc<l ·
1c1g it.
111.

Dale.

1~~~-<l -,~~=!~:;! -,~~~-d-,· Hcd~ccd
~!me. I hc.._g'.'.~-- ~i~~
111.

_ ---·· ..

_height.

Feb.::! '.~-~: -~--~~~~ le I~ 1~JI ~n~
1 I3 30 --0·60 24 I 20 \-0·95 13 45 --0·50 25 2 30 +I "IO 14 40 -0·30 26 2 45 +I ·2o __ I5__ }()_ --0·15 27 3 30 ,~-I-"JO I5 50 o·oo 28 4 30 -i-I"25 I6 30 +o·I5 29 4 45 -t 0·90 I7 30 -\-0·40 Mar. I 5 IO -\-0·65 I8 20 +0·55 2 5 10 ·j-0·40 I8 45 +0·60 -- --·3 5 40 1···+0·05 2045 --t-0·65 4 6 00 -0·.:5 2IOO -\-0·60 5 9 30 ·--0·40 22 50 +0·80 6 IO 30 -0·50 23 50 +0·85 7 ----------· I2 20 -0·50 9

1892.

]<~·ti. I h.

1 hd.

1892.

h.

I I

I

-8 :-I~ ~~ 1-~~~:-~r I~ ~~- -~:~r
I 14 2 I4

45 '. +0·90 9 35 00 --0·30 I9 I5 10 20 -j-0·85 I 9 40 50 -0·15 ' 20 20 II J JO -\-0·90 IO 20 15 30 --o·JO 21 oo 12 3 45 +0·70 IO 15 ______I_~_45 -0·05· ! 2I 15

1

I8 10 I 9 45 I8 30 IO 30 I9 45 Io 30 20 45 I j -CX,- ~ 2I 30 II 20 22 00 II 20 22 45 I2 oo 23 45 12 00 ----. I oo I230 3 30 1300. 7 oo I4 00 7 30 I 5 40 7 30 I7 00

I

(ar. :: -0·85 --0·85 Ii 20 -I·oo I ---0·85 2I ·-I ·oo --0·90 22 ···I·oo --0·85-· ·- - Z3. -I ·oo I --0·95 24 --0·95 . - I ·oo 25 -0·80 -1·05 26 -0·55 ·-I ·Io 27 -----~-45· ··· -2s --I·o5 -0·35 29 --1·00 -0·50 :I 30 --0·85 I -0·55 3I -0·80 -0·75 Apr. ~ --0·65 j ···--·

I?~~ I :f~:~~ I~~ ~:!~

I

Feet.

h. m.

.Ft!el.

lj

I

21 10 to·65 I2 30 -0·80 9 50 --0·55 I36 3100 I -0·60 22 I5 +-o·<i5 -0·70 IO IO -0·45 7 00 -0·60 23 30 t-0·75 I4 oo -0·65 I I 30 -0·40 8 oo -0·70 _____ ------I 17 oo ---o·(i5 0 IO -j_:-0··90-: 8 40- -°=-O·tlo12 oo -0·20 116 50 -0·70 0 40 -tI·I5 8 00 -0·70 13 40 --0·05 I8 25 -0·65 I 30 +I 0 8 30 -0·70 I4 I5 ·t-o-~o I9 50 -0·65 2 25 -j-1.;5 9 30 -0·70 15 00 -l 0·45 20 20 -0·60 2 40 -t-I ·10 9 45 -0·75 15 30 . -+:?·651' 2I 15 -0·60 -0·1s 3 I5 . +0·90 10 I5 1615 +0·8oj2245 -0·50 3 50 +0·50 JO 30 -0·85 1700 +o·cio 23I5 -0·50 S 10 t-o·4o I I oo -0·85 18 cio +I"IO ----- -----5 I5 o·oo 1 30 -0·40 19 00 -j-1. IO I I 30 -0·90 6 40 ---0·20 3 I5 -0·40 20 30 +_!~5 II 50 -0·90

I
1·

01

2

2-~-~~ +~:~~
50 50 45 15 20

if t~-- -=~:~~ ·
I5 -0·60 50 --0·55 00 -0·75 45 -0·60 30 -0·70 15 -0·55 00 -0·70 10 __ :::-:-0·50

I

20 30 10 I6 50 00 17 i 5 20 118 40 15

:: I~~ ·1~::r1 ;~ ~- --~r~~ 1 : 1 t ~~ -trff Ir;- ~:~1
17 5 18 5 18 +0·25 -f-0"20 +0·50 -t-0·10 +0·50 0.0::> I -j-0·55

-0·80 -0·90 -0·80 -0·90 -0·75 -0·95 -0·90 --0·85

9 2I 4 11 23 5 J2
I'

3

--0·45 +0·95 --0·40 +0·90 -0·30
------

_____

6

O J5 I3 IO

+0·80 --0"20

6 IJ 7 15 7 17 8 18

111

22 30 11 I 5 23 50 I I 20 ----0 30 45

-0·65 -0·80 -0·55 -0·80 ------0·40 -0·80

9 JO II

14 2 J5 3 15 3 16

30 IO 00 00 I5 30 00

+0·20 20 00 +0·65 9 ·00 +0·40 20 30 -j-0·55 9 30 +0·70 21 30 +0·50122 15 +0·75 22 J5

-0·60 --0·70 -0·45 -0·60 -0·50 -0·75 -0·50

572

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.
High und low walel', J/1molulu, 1Jawaiia11
Low water.
1Hla11d~-Contiu11otl.

i

I
Date.

High water.
1

Date.

Corrected time.

Rcc!uced

'· 3 16 13 4 I6 14 4 17 I5 5 18 16 6 _____ 19
17

,,,, Apr.12

18

20 21
.22

27

May

1 2

~~ :- ~~::~ ~~-1~ =~~~-1--2-7-J-~~-1~ - -r-~:~~ '--6--~5 1-~~:8~
I
+1·00 -0·25 --j- 1 ·05 +0·10 +0·85 -----+0·40 + 0·75 +0·50 14 30 6 15 14 30 7 00 17 20 7 15 2000 7 30 19 30 0·35 " l;i -0'20 -0·70 -0·25 -0·70 I -0·30! -0·80 II -0·25 II

"' hd. '· ,,, 1 hct. 30 +0·25 9 35 0·80 i May 7 o 50 +0·65 8 oo --0·70 25 +0·80 23 IO --0·45 14 20 +070 20 20 -0·251 -0·60 I5 +0·20 IO IO -0·75 8 11 15 +0·50 8 15 --0·30 50 +0·90 ---------I4 30 +0·80 20 40 -0·70: 30 ---0·05 0 40 -0·50 2 30 +0·40 8 35 9 -----0·40 25 +0·90 9 45 - -0·85 15 oo +1 ·oo 2I 45 20 -0·15 I 15 --0·45 I: IO 2 30 +0·20 8 40 ---0·85 ---0·45 40 +0·90 JO 20 --0·85 15 40 --t-1·15 23 15 ---0·80 00 ---0·40 2 50 --0·50 I I I 3 30 -j-o· I5 8 50 oo -~to·85 10 oo -0·85 ' _1'.> __ 1_0 ___ +_1·2_5__ ----Ci 30 -0·45 3 30 - --_:-_:_-o--:S.5_! __ 1_2_' 3 50 o·oo 0 00 ----0·50 9 20 --0·85 20 00 +0·75 II 00 I ---0·70 I 16 30 +1·25 --0·60 0 20 7 oo -0·60 4 30 I --0·65 13 4 45 -0·15 -0·90 21 40 +0·80 1 11 oo -0-<·5 17 30 -1-1 ·25 9 45 12 00 --0·40 6 30 --0·55 1 14 5 40 --0·30 ! I IO -0·60 -0·85 22 00 +0·80 14 30 --0·45 18 30 +1·20 IO 20 ---o·6o 13 00 -0·25 7 00 -0·60 15 6 00 -0·30 2 30 - 0·75 23 IO -j-0·95 16 00 --0·40 1 I8 50 -f-1·15 IO 35 ---0·60 ---------7 00 ---0·60 I 16 7 00 -0·30 3 30 -0·7~ 12 50 -0·10 17 15 -~~·-~o ______ 19 45 _+_1·00_ 11 I5 -0·70 o -I0- 1 --~-=-o-·857 30 -0·70 17 ---0·40 3 30 -0·55 13 451 +0·25 1.'l 00 ---0·50 20 45 -l-1'00 II 50 -0·75 1 00 --j-0·90 8 00 -- 0·70 18 IO 45 -0·40 5 00 -0·45 13 50 +0·45 19 40 -0·50 i 21 40 +0·85 13 00 -0·80 I 45 ! -j-0·85 8 40 -0'90 19 12 05 -0·15 5 45 -0·30 I4 30 +070 20 45 --0·55 i 22 20 +0·75 15 00 -0·80 2 40 i -1-0·65 8 50 --0·95 I 20 12 45 -1-0·15 6 00 15 JO + 1'15 21 50 -0·55 23 IO -j-0·65 I7 30 -0'20 3 30 +0·35 9 00 _ -0·95 ! 21 I3 00 +0·45 6 40 --0·90 I6 oo _ +I_i5_ '.:3_3o -~-0:5'! _ _ _ ~UL +o·6o _1_8_50 ---::_?_:3~ 3 55 +0·20 9 45 -1'IO 22 ---------7 00 ! -0·95 1; 15 +1·40 ---------- i 13 55 -j-0·75 20 15 i -0·35 5 00 -0'10 I 00 -0·50 : 23 O 40 +0·25 7 00 ' - I '00 17 50 --f-I'45 IO IO --I'OO ! 14 J.5 +1·15 21 00 -0·50 5 45 --0'20 1 15 -0·60 I 24 2 00 I +o·IO 8 00 -1 'IO I8 30 +1·40 IO 50 0·90 i I I~ 50 +1·40 22 25 -0·60 6 30 --0·30 I 2 30 ----Oo.·(:7,55 . 25 I~5 4305 I --0·05 I 8 30 -l'IO 19 30 +1·30 JI 40 +1·40 '[23 35) [-0·70] 7 00 -0·40 3 30 0·60 26 [ 3 3<;] [-:--0·20J1 9 IO j -1'20

I --

":"~> L,,,, ~;~::~1 ·: ,:·
'1

I

;

I r~c~~:I

I ----

!

Reduced

,:. ·: .

r~c~~:I

Reduced height.

I

I'

8-oo

I

I

11'

21 40 3 11 15 22 50 41 12 30 23 20 5 ----1330 6 o 15 13 45
1

~-=0·65

I

117 25 5 30 18 30 29 7 00 19 30 30 7 40 2000 31 9 20 21 00 28

+1·50 9 45 -0·50 1 45 --f--1 ·45 IO 30 J --0·40 2 30 . +I '20 11 10 I -0·40 3 30 l +1·00 1145· -0·30 j 4 15 I +0·85 112 30 I

I

-1·10 --0·85 -0·90 -0·70 -0·80 -0·85 -0·60 -o·So -0·50

REPOR'l' FOR 1893-PART II.
lli!lh a ml low water, llu11olul1i, Hawaiian lBlcmcls-Continuctl.

573
--,- --------

-- - ___ I_____ ----:High water. '
I'

I.ow \\.'nlcr.

!J1~h wnlcr.

Dute.

11~~~;~-d !i I\~~;~~: l-r~~;~-1 ~1~1l1~'h~.d II Date. r~~~-1 -l~~;;ucc<l-1-r~-.;-t~-~l-1-~-1~-,:-,~~l-,~--d-1 :, ~
tune.
1 ·

i

I.ow water.

lime:.

'

:

tune:

height.

time.

1:~~:·.·lr ~~.-'~~I !~'~s
2

1

[23 10]1 [ +o·ssJ [is 4 oJ 3 12 40 -1-0·40 L 6 10] I ---------17 35 4' 0201 f-0·40 700 '113 00 +0·55 18 40 5 0 30 +0·15 6 30
___ I\

Ir:~ ~~J 1 ~~~:;~] I~ ~~ :=:~:~~

r

1:

hs :;'.;

-~~:1is 1~~~~·61 ~~ ;5 ~~:~-s ! \ % -~:~o
I
·7
00

_-,~I_ +o"?_o_.~~-l----o_·io I

[---0·2sJ:I [-0·80]' -0·20 j -o·So -0·35 ---0·90 -1·05 Ii --0·45 JI --0·95 -0·60 I -1·05: --0·55 . --o- 95 I -0·60 I

i :~ ~~ :t~:~~ I 1l ~~ -=~:~ 22 oo , -1-0·60 i ·s 40 ---0·25 181 11 30 I +0·40 5 -1 ·oo
, 1

22 30. -to·30 19 .1240 -t-o·So 1 23 50 ·-·-0·05
20 -··---

____ _·_33~.-1 1

-'---·· 1

_:~~o- _2e>_~
o 21 7 22

17 40 ~ 15 18 50 6 00
_

-0·25 --1·10 -0·30 -1·10

-o·_~I

1 15. o·oo · 7 oo 14 oo 1 +0·80 21 15 7[ I 10 -0·05 7 30 ' 14 30 +0·95 22 00 8 I 45 -0·30 7 30 15 10 +1·10 -22 50 2 3o --o- 35 8 oo 9 ·5 30 -1-1·20 23 45 10 11 12' 13 I

61

I

i ~) [+;:;~) [ ~ !~). (=-~:;~) ;·i ;~ --~~:~~--1 ~ :~ -=~:~~-i!--z6-:. I-~~~-- --~~:ff I~ ~~ -:=-~~~~
I~ ~~ ~~:j~
8 30

21, o 30 · -0·15 I 14 oo I 1-1·30 I 22! .1 15 -0·30 14 40 ' 1-1 ·45 I 231 2 30 I -0·50 I 15 20 +··so. 24 4 oo --0·45 I [16 10] r-1-1·50]; 25 ( 1 27

40 -1·w 1 45 1 --0·50 30 I ---1·20 30 I --0·70 8 00 I --1·20 23 40, -0·70 s 40 1-1 ·2s _____ _____ _

~~:~~ i

5 30 I -0·50 i

tJ 45 18 30 14 7 00 19 OD ; 15 s oo 20 30

i 17 30' +1·05

--0·60 +1·10 ---0·45 -t I ·05 -0·35 +0·80

0 40 9 30 2 30 10 30 2 30 10 50 3· oo 12 oo

I

-0·80 --1·00 --0·80 --0·95 -0·75 -0·80 - 0·75 -o·6o

11

: :·1
·1

I

I'

_
·

6 18 28 6 ·119 29 7 ,[ 19 30 -c s 20 1
I

00

30 -'f-1·20 I I 45 --0·25 ; 2 ,)0 +0·95 \ 11 30 -0·25 3 45] [+0·80J1 12 1sJ\ [ --0·20J.c 3 oo +0·60 I 12

I

I

-0·35

I

·--0·65 15 -0·85 45 i --0·70 35 --0·70 00 --0·80 30 --0·55 4sl[--0·90J 40 I -0·30
IO

I
.

I

574

U. S. COA8T AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The means being taken for intervals of five <lays, and these means being again consoli<lated for each successive grnup of Ii ve, we have the following table:
Relative lwiglttH of mean s.:a le1,cl al JI011olulu, Ilawaii1rn /Hlancln, from J1111c, 1891, to Junl!, 189."!.

--·0·04

-··

·11

-

·24

Sept.

12

\- ·38
Apr.

20

25 JO
4
9

-·11

Oct.

7

'

·25

14
19

24
May

29 4
·08

21 26

Dec.

I

6
II

- ·17
-j
·20
·01

16 21

·i·

+

·05

I Jee.

21

I-

·04

;I

i

23

·12 ·20

-·---·---- ----------- _______ ____:1 _____ --·-

REPORT FOR 1893-PART 11.

575

'rhmie values are plotted in the accompanying illustration.
I
~

iJl

~

!:>

co ~ <..!)

oc... c:
z
NI"

i;,,

~\

R
\

R

0

'

oc... c:
0

w-<
_)>

r

~
CJ

\
I

U)C: Q

~
~

t J

co
(J)

ri

co

N'

.,,
-I

_o

000

~
~

~

~

_,

I
00

""
_o
...,jl"'l

N

z 0 :<

~ 8
t-...
("'-.

~

(")

C'

~

O"l

<.O
N

N

c... )> .z

CT>

I
J
I

J

U'l{XJ

.., -,..,
>

i
~:
~ ~
P:: ~

O'>

I I
O>

s::

N·

;;IJ

"'" ?'
-----

->

"' s::
N-(

)>

- - ---

,___

___

J

..-z l""I

"' _c
'-

576

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

l\fAGNETW, GRAVI'l'Y, AND LATI'l'UD1'~ 0IlSEltVA'l'IONS IN CONNEC· 'l'lON WITH 'l'HE EXPEDl'l'lON TO 'l'IIE SUl\Dll'l' OF }!A.UNA J(E.A.,
AND A'l' soJ\IE SunsEQlJENT STA'l'IONS.

In J nne, 18!J2, the latitude determinations were discontinued at Waikiki, arul Honolulu was occupied for magnetic and gm\·ity olJservationH. 'Che mag11etic work already done at \Vaikiki and Kahnku is, for con· venie11ce of reference, al:;o gfren in what follows.
DESCRil''l'lON OF lllA.GNE'l'IC INS'l'RUllJEN'l'S.

The theodolite magnetometer is tlte same as the one taken to Africa in 188fl-'90. It is designated as No. 11, United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, and waH remodeled and improved at the oflicc in ,July, 1887. The telescope ha:; au aperture of 2""'. 'l'he 11orizontal and vertical circles are each 10" 111 in diameter. The gmduation is from left to right, and angles may be read to single minutes uy means of two opposite verniers. The dimensions of the magnets are:
· N L 11 length = 7·1 ""', diameter = 0·8" 111 N .S11 " = 5·8 " = 0·8

'fhe ring used in determining the moment of mass of the i11te11sity magr.iet (N L 11 ) had the followiug dimensions (C. S. Schott, October :.H, 188U): r =inner radius= 1·474!) 0111 r1 = ou tcr " = 1 ·8U0u w =weight = 1U·48U40 grams from which N;, = ~ (r 2 + 1/) 10 = 5li·O!!Ul at rno.7 C. or 62°·0 F. Moment of mass at temperature t = 1lf1
Jf1

=

Jlf0

ll + 2 c (f
0

;_ t 0 )]

where e = coeflicient of expa11sio11 for "l log Jlf1 = 1·74841

0. = O·OOUOlU and

+ 0·0000l65 (t -

rno·7)

'l'he value of.1 division of scale ot' long magnet (N 11 1i) was determined Jive times 1luri11g the scm;o11, givi11g a mean resnlt.of 3'·68. 'l'his, co111bine1l with the African value, :.3'·72, gives a value of :~'·70, which is adopted in the reductiou of the observations. lllcreasi11g scale rcatli11gs correspo11d to decreasi11g circle reallingt>. The moment of mass of the long· magnet ( x· D11 ) <leter111i11e1l at Wm;hi11gto11 by Mr. Braid is91Vi48 ::!: 0·094 (C. G. S. units). 'I'his value, however, indudes the moment of the small hala11cing ring· ( K). (8ee Appendix No. 12, Heport 18!>0.) Deducting· this we have for the
· .N L 11 doBignatcH now long magnet of I'\ o. 11.

REPORT :FOR 1893-P.A.RT II.

577

moment of mass to be useu iu the work of 1891-'!}!:l a value of !)4·303 at a teu1perature of rn°·7 C. log 11[ at temperature t = 1·!)7453

+ 0·0000106 (t -

rno·7)

Temperature cocflicient (q) of N .L1 1 = 0·00108 for 1° F. aud. 0·00194 for1oc. lmluction factor (h) in C. (I-. S. units= 0·04ii7 ± 0·0006 (U.S. Schott, December 6, 18!}0). luduction coeflicicn t fl ( = 111h) (U. U. S. units) = 6·5,! :1 0·08 at 620 I~. To correct oscillutio11s for i))(luctio11 to log
to logadd log
'1.'~

add log (1

+ h H)

'l'o correct dc1lectious for i11d.uctio11
1ll

11

c· 1 + ~~)· = 0·00020 for '/' = 30·5.J.·:lll r
3

= 0·00006 for r = 45·78c"' Fin;t di,;trilmtiou cocllicicnt of N L 11 = P == - ·1 :l 4 (C. G. :::\. units).
For short dctleetiug- di:stance (r = 30<i·1"'") log ( 1- ri) = 0·00182
'' loug " " (r = 4;)·78""') '' '; = 0·00082 lfodnctiou of nrng-uetic moment (m) of iutcu:sity magnet (N Lu) to l(jo.7 C. = 11t w 7 = m [I + (t - 11;0.7) x O·OOUJ4]
0 ·

,

I'

log m 1,:1 ··-··log

Ill

~

modul""

>< o·~ol!.)4 (/- 16°·7) =log"'+ 0·00.:.84 (t- 16°.7)

H. 1':x. l!l, pt. :!-37

578
Values of 11ia1111l'lio

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
11wm1'11f

(111) at JU0 ·7 C. of long ma.ynct (N J,11), HhoWlll!I loBB of
'lllllf/llCfiBlll.

Station.

Date.

- - - - - · · --, I
Mnv,nctic
16°·7

-·

-

,

I
I'

mo111cnt 1.tl

C.

1. No. of
SClS,

"(C.<3.S. umts).i

\Vashington
Azores
!~lands

Cape Verde blands Africa: Sierra Leone Gold Coast Loancla Cabiri Cape Town St. Helena, Jamestown l.ongwood " Ascension Island, c;eorgetown Green :'>'lountain Barbados Bermuda Hawaiian lslancls, Polynesia: Waikiki Kahuku Honolulu Kawaihac \\'aimca

188cn3 ·83 ·86 ·88 ·91 ·96 ·97 1890·07 ·15 ·17 '22 ·33 ·33 ·39 1891 ·6~ ·90 1892·42
·so

143·3 140·4 140·7 134·3 128·9 129·4 135 ·o 134·2 133'9 133·7 133·8 1 33·7 133·3 131 ·9 129·6 128·8 127 ·9 128·5 128·0 128·8 128·3 123·6 127·1 124·7 125·0 125·0 124·0 125 '4

3 2
I

2 3 2

.

5
2 3 3 3 3 3

Kalaicha \Vaiau Hilo Napoopoo Lahaina Waimea A B
;\°onopapa

·52 ·53 ·54 ·56 ·58 ·(,4 ·65 ·67 ·68 ·70

3 3 3 3 2 2 2 3 3 3 2 3

------·-----

REPORT FOR 18!!3-PAR'l' II.
811111111111·11

579

of tim" aucl azi111nlh

1'C81tl!B
1

ill cu11111:cliun with 111t1f/l1t·fii: ohHcr1·11fiu11H.

Stati(1r.,

!late.

'1

c;;:::~:;1:i,~ 1 ·1 ·~~;1'~_c,;I :'ositi"n .,fmark~l Atlo~~~d--.~:;k~itio·~\
--------j------ - ---- ________ I
uo111dcr."' 1ate. t

I

11

111

'

.:

.

--

1891-'92.

h.

Ill.

Waikiki

Aug.10
II

8

23

I'·

Ill.

8 19

Kahuku
I !onolulu i

:\°ov. 25

13 15 15

8 12 8 oo a. m. 5 30 I'· Ill.
9 oo a. m.

111. s. - 8 10·9 8 27·6 - 9 2·2

I
-17

_,
!\. l\.

I

5"3"0 E.
51 ·4

I

1·:.

·'
6

:-.;

I

5 2 ·2 E.

25
27
June 10 30 July 3 9 9
II

J 00 p. Ill. --. I 54
9 30 a. ni.
--- 3 37
~-

S. (,5

s. 65 8·8
);.

w. ' (,·4 W. S.

-58
-~- 2
-·-10

I
1'

5 7·

6

' \\.
E.
E.

9 00

0 37

Ka\\':tihae \Vaimca Kalaicha Waiau IIilo ~

5 00 p. Ill.
5 9 4 9 8 8 8

--j- 4 OJ

14

15
15
21

21 30
31

Aug. Napoopuo Lahaina \VaimcaA \Vaimca ll Nonopapa Sept.

I
I

17 19 20
23

00 ~- 3 33 30 26 30 I'· Ill. --- 0 42 30 a. m. -- o 65 40 .L J 50 40 3 33 40 p. m. 3 25 IO 20 a. ll). 3 54 4 30 I'· m. -!- 3 47 7 50 a. m. \-18 28 9 40 .:.18 50 \-17 46 9 20 3 30 P· m.1 -1-17 45 4 30 ! -- 5 4~ 91oa.m.1--618 2 45 I'· Ill. - - 6 45

a. m.1-- o
+

s~·.

55

20·0

:5 -5
81

2
I

:7

-17
-18

40·2 E. S. 81 51·4 E. s. 81 58·3 E. :\. 63 N.63 N. 22 N.22 N. 72 N. 72 '.'\. 7Z N,72 N.78 N. 78 N. 78 S. o s. I

s.

1 .. s. 8 ~·

E.

X. 55

20·0

25

2·2

I S.

81 50·3 E.

N. 63 ·17'7 W. 54·6 W. 45·3\V.

N. 63 48·3 W.

--27

-!· 20 -56 - 1 __ 18 - 22
--24
--18

24

6 ~~a. m.1[-~ ~ ~~]
9 20 8 30 820

25
2

3 5
6

8 25·
8 25 8 IO s 50

I·, --

I+

: -- 0

38 o 09 .-009

7
9

I --

16 I 38 4 42

I I

02

-~;

--=--~~- 1 -~-~---' 1~~~ w~_I N.-~1 ·6 w.
The

I Is. 74 2(,·5 1;. s. s.
S. 74 35'.> F . .

S·o \\". :-;: W 3·2W . . . 22 5· 6 . 41·0 E. 43·1 E. . E. X. 72 37·6 E. 49 7 30·8E. 18·7W. 1.1·6 \\'. N. 78 22·7 W. 28·8 W. 51 ·4 E. 5 ·3 E. S. I 00·4 E. s. I 4·5 E. s. 39 37·2 w. S. 39 44 ·2 \\'. S. 39 40·7 W.
J

74 39«> 1~.

74 :n·8 E.

3

· Boml dnonomctcr No. 177. t +=losing; - = gnining-. ;: At Honolulu chro.nomctcr (;ow!a11tl, ]280, hclonging to the Go\·crnmcnt Sun·cr, was used. az~muth was nlso furmshcd hy Mr. C. J. Lyons, of that service. ~At Hilo W:ltr.h ).; o. 7583 wus 11scrl.

111AGNE'.l'IG OTISERYA'l'JON8 AT WAI KI KI.

These obsern1tio11s \\·ero made 011August11, l~, and 1:3, IS!H. As it was necessary to contiuue tlw time, latit1Hlc, and gravity 11eter111inatio11s throughout the yeal', an epoch was chosen for the magnetic work which woul<l least interfere with the regular observatio118. Acconlingly, about tlic middle of August, just befol'o changing- tlie groups of stars then being observe<l for latitude, the magnetic work was undertaken. 'l'hi& itnplied almost continual obsen·:ttion and computation from G.30 a. m. to 11 p. m., aud involved the dcterminat-iou of the magnetic declination, dip, and horizontal in1ensity, with thrne sets of obsenations for t.ime and azimuth with the tlwo1lolitc maf\·1wto11wter, besides tho rogu-

580

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODEUC SURVEY.

lar work with tlle pendulum appa.ratm;1 the >t,e11ith telesco1w, aud tbo meriuian i11strume11t iu the observatory. 'l'his was accomplished with: out auy assh;tauce either by a recorder or aid. The limit of :,;atisfaetory work was probably reached in this scheme, as a full day's magnetic work, followed by five hours1 uight observations, about exliausts an ordinary observer's capacity for good work. 'l'lte station was situated near the astl'o11omical observatory and 011 tlw property of l\fr. J. F. Brown. '.l'be sketc,:11 011 }>age 581 gives the ,location.
Aboirncl uf rco11llH, Waikiki, Hawaiian JsltrnclH.
1>11'.

!\' cc.:dk i\' o.

t,
-·I -

Pale.
~.

s.

~lean.

:\.

·1
1891. ,\ug. I I
12
I

I
0

:->.

)tca11.

I

40

oS q
20

39

29

39

IJ

2S 28

48 51 54

39 40 39

51 10 50

40

02 01
o(>

39 40 39

56

06

58

I I

I

IJEGLil\.l.'J·Jo:-;, Jill', AKll DITE!\Sl'J'\'.

-j

------~

Si..:.1k reading- of axis.

I : I

-··

-

·-~-·-··-

I>t:dination
(cast).

! .

~'

'I cant 1IJI.

d.
2!;·72

0

J))'lll'S.

JO

28·8o

05·3 04·9 05·3

39

52·0

58·5
56·0

0·2979 0·2971 0·2992

129·8 129·6 129·4

:llAUNB'l'/C t>HSBllVA'l'JONH, A1' l\AUIJl\11, OAlllJ.

'ra.ki11g all Yant.age of an iutcrval of 011e Wl'ek in .November, when my colleague on the iuteruatfoual latitude wod( waH necessarily al.mellt frolll Waikiki, a 1'Ct of magHetie <leter111i11atio111; wns made at the extreme. 1101th cml of Oalrn. AccompaniC>d by Prof'. -vv·. D. Alexaudcl', l left '\\raikiki 011 the morning of :N"uvcml.Jer '.!4, takiug the st.cam cars from llo11oluln to Ewa aud rilling frnm Ewa to Kahuku, a uistauce of 30 miles. \Ve arrived at Kahuku late iu the evening. Observations were begun t·arly 11ext morning and continued until about 1.30 p. m. on the 37th, when we istarted for J1011uluht lJy ll'ay of tbo Pali. 8topping O\'Cl' 11igl1t at l\.1wloa., \Vu.ikiki was reached the followiug at'tt~rnoon a1Hl the observatory work was immediately rmmmed. I~ess t.Jian five da;ys' aliscuce were 11ecessary for three full ua.yH' work at a. stittiou 40 miles f'r1Jm home, the distauce l>eiug matle both ways on horseback over a tliftkult road. 'l'he station occupied was situated in the front yard uf tho Kalrnku 1·auch cottage. 'fhe cottage is al>out

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

581

(Tl10 dingTnms horcnftor µivrn .llf(' not go11ernlly1lrnw11 fo Rr.nlo. heing inHort,(~tl Himply to :i.hl lnrco~· tnhlishing tho position of thn station in cnHo it iH (lt:Hir1tblo to repent tho ohKorvntiouH nt· Ronrn fnturo

thuo.J

·

I I

1' t
-:<

Sketch/

or Magnetic

I

Stcd.io~ at,
I I I

I

Wailciki,Hawai.ia.n., .Ids.
(!Wt

draw1'/., to sccde)
I I
I

~

~
r..
~

I

I
I

~
~
\:> \:>

.3

I I
I

(\')

....

I
I I I

4sJron,. Obsy

I

I
I
I

Magnetic Sta.,.

18 f'l.

582

U. S. COA8'1' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

three-fifths of a mile south and almut one-third of a mile west of the tl'igonometrical station on the extreme north point of the island. 1'he a~tronomical latitude of this station was determined in 1887. The followiug sketch gives the relative positions:

Sketch,

or Kalw.ku,, Ma.gt?.eli.c Sta.Lion,

Posit.ion., or Tr:i,gorwm.,. Sta.,. La.L,(Oeodctic)_ - __ .Zl'42'19."Z Long. ,, ----- _J57"58'59."8

Dip Circle

House

Al1slnwt o.frt'H11/t~, litt/111k11, 011/111.
JJI I'.
~ccdlc

Dute.

1--- ~-!----~· . /___ · _
I

I

No .. J.

__ I______
~'.lean.

--/-~--

.

Needle

~o. 2.

o

--~~--~ -r--;1cn1~-

/____ · _
I

i

.

I I

1891.

I
o

·- I--- ---- 41

I
j'

Nov.

~l
27

1~ ~~
41

41

01

41

31

41

.14
12

05 07

20

26

24

~8
38

1

I I

i

o

41

~~
25

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'r II.
Ab.tract of re~nlta, 11.almlm, Oa/m-Continuecl.
Dl!:CLDIA'l'lOX, DIP, .AND
INTJ~NSI'J.T.

583

Dnte

·

l
I I
-

Sc:ilc rcn1ling of uxis.

.,-~c~J:,::m (en.st).
0

I

:II r · can c 'P·

I

Horizontal intensity.

I

Magnctlicf n~~!:1:r~ct~

I
.

I----\
1

'··-·----- --- ti.
2 9·34
---0

--------i
29·0 23-5 24·5
Dyne's. 0·2932 3/ 44

i
I

1

1891. Nov. 25 ,
2(l

JO

I

z7
-----

16·4 13·0 14·7

41

I

... -

129·3 128·6 128·4

_I ______ J_ ____ _

OBSERV.A'l'IONS A'l' IIONOL{;LU.

Gnwity-J>cscription of sta.f·ion.-Th<i receiver was mounted on the window sill of the second story south i·oom 01' tho Kapuaiw;1 building, occupied by the Govcrmnont Survey. Time observations wcro mado in the observatory near by, and the chronometer used in noting the peuclulum coincidences was connected with tho chronograph so as to bo used for tho star observations in tho evening. 'rho oscillations were made generally in tho daytime, as it was necessary for mo to devote tho ovening8 to either time observations at Honolulu or latitude obser. vat.ions at Waikiki, arn:I, indeed, sometimes to botll 011 the same night. Tho gravity determinations heretoforo mado at Honolulu were in 1883 and 1887. At tlw first-uamed time tho statiou occupied was the cellar of the Young Men's Christian Association bnilding, on the corner of 1lotel and Alakea streets, aml the instrument used was a pendulum of tho reversible type (No. 3), measuring 1 yard between the knives lu 1887 the Ka.puaiwa. building· was occupied, aud the pendulums were buug from an iron bracket embedded in the wall in tlle first story of the building. The determinations in this case were made with two pendnlmns, of which one was (No.:~) cite(l above, and tho other (No. 4) of thQ same pattern, but having a. distance of 1 metre between tho knives. Tho small pendulnms employed in lS!H-'H~ were therefore oscillated at Honolulu not only to connect the long series of observations made at Waikiki with a permanent station, but also to have an additional check on tho work that was soon to follow 011 the Island of Hawaii. Moreover, the permanent station in Honolulu woul<l thus bo connected with our continental stations by means of a new form of instrument, which wonkl materially strengthen the result. Tho following are the pendulum observations and reductions. The mean of tho direct and reverse result~ are comuincd with equal weights, irrmipective of tho number of iudividual obsorvatious iu each position:

584

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVRY.
1'~11dul11111

obseruations. II011olulu., Hawaiian Jsla11ds.

[OIJRcrvorR:

le. D. PrMton,

"'· K "'1111.]

Penc1J1'osi-l-s ."--lr-·-0
lum. I ti on.
1

I No1. of
~o

--1' I---n,
i
])
2

~

\\

1

g-.

ate.

c;;:~e"r~c cidcncc in I . . I ,. ,, ls tcn·als. ilnil1al. }4 anal. -.i.. ! I
St'(o11ds. 2263·0' 2254·3 2260·8 2263·1 2262·5 2266·5 2267·5
111111.

n-

Time of I Semi-arc. ,. ten coin- : --- - ·--·-- Tcmf)Cra·

l\;anom-l ll·~rom_I
ctcr.

turc.

I

ctcr.

'

sure nt
0

Preso C.

R R

~5
6 7

I I I I

1892. June 23 24

I
~

·-------"'"'· 25·93 73"4 28·52 119·4 28·40 214·6 28·25 229·0 27·90 221·0 26·64 200·0 26·_141189·0

111111.

° C.

111111.

IO

~: 24
24 24 25 25 25 25 25 25 25 ;
I

14 12 16 12
IO IO

4·8 4·9 4·8 4·7 4·7 4·8 4·8

3·4 1·4 3·5 3·2 3·5 3·9 3·9 4·2 4·4 4·2

767·0 766·2 765·8 765·5 765·3 766·0 766·4 540 546 545

B!
ll .

J)

R
))

8 9
IO
II

6
4

4 6 8 6
6

2437·5 5·0 2441 ·2 5·0 2438·815·0

28·60 166·8 766·0 28·80' 160·6 765·9 28·851: 161'0 765·9 97 ·4 88·2 82·0 65·2 765 ·6 766·0 766·4 76(,·4

"

12

13 14

2614 ·2 4 ·6 3 ·8 . 26·28 2613.114·8 3"7125"9.l 2617·514·714·0 25·48 2615·8 ~~~25·22

i

REPOR'r FOR 1893-PART II.
Rcd1101ion of 1ic1Hl11l111n olmcrnafi011R, Honoluln, JTawaiian Islamls.
[Pcrio<lR rc<lncc<l to tomywrntnro,
Jr,~

585

C.; pruHsurc, !iOOrnm nt 0:1 C.; nro infmitolr Arnall; sifl.-roal time.]

- - - - - · ··---Corrections (in seventh 1lt>dmal place).

-----

Pcrio11 uncorrcctccl.
Arc.

_I________ I

i Tc111pcrnt11rc.:

I

Period correctc<l.
Pressure.

Seco11tfs.

I
-59 ---31 -61 --55 -- 59 -(17
---(17

I ---------,------t-326

Rntc.

--------------S,·co11ds.

0-501 1072 1115 1083 1071 1074 1055 1050

I I

-453 -561 -556 -549 -535 -483 -471

i

+

-103 65 -!- 2 12 + 06
II

i

·+-326

20

-f-326 -!-326 !--326 +326 +326

-------0·501 0797

0-501 0783 784 794 805 812 820 818

0·501 0277 0262 0272

-75 --78 --75

-564 -- 573 -575

31 36 36

+326 +326 +32(,

0,00,~1
-------0·500 9920 912

I

0-500 9582 9585 9569 9575

----(12

-64
. -(17 -

--70

-467 -453 -434 --424

85 92 98 -110

-l-349 +349 t-.H9 -f-349

0-500 9317 325 319

-------0-500 9320

320

586

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
MAGNETIC OBSERV.A.TIONS .A.'l' HONOLULU.

The station was located in the public yar(l near the Government l.mildiug. 'fhe magnetometer was set up in ra11ge with the northeast side of tho Kapuaiwa building, :L1Hl at a poiut which would give a clear lino of sight 1mst the Government lmilding to the trigonometric station (Puowaina) on Punch Bowl hi11. The dip circle wa:'I placed under the shade of the banyan tree, a few paces distant. Time and azimuth observati_ons were not necessary at tl'iis station, as tho standard clock

Posilio~

b

=
~

ol Mo:gnetomet.er Dip Circle
H

c
d,

.,

Pu~waifta:,

Tri_gorwm- Sta.

=
=

e

· .Astron,. Ob.<>y. · .. P~rub.du.n1.,, .App~

0d
KaplUU:wa_ Bl'!g.

Survey

orfl.ce

e

of the Survey oflice was kept rated for the regular time service, and the direction from the 111ag11etfo t>tation to tho trigonometric point on Punch Bowl was accurately known from the Government triaugulation. The azimuth of tho lino magnetic station - Pundt Bowl, as fumishe<l by Mr. C .·1. Lyons, in charge-of the Survey oflicc, is iiortll 550 20'·0 east.

U.S. Coast and Goodot1c Survey Report for 1893,

Part 11.

No. 26.

8. Pu u. K<-Vn.a1i.i

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
l\IAGNETW OllSERV A'l'IONS.
Absfrcwt ofrcs11lls, llu110/ul11, Hawaiian lslandH.
DIP.

587

I

I

,
Date.
J

Needle No.

1.

Ncccllc No.
Mcun.

2.

I

1---~~~;, --/ IJ·"' ~U~ ll
Date.
, ing of axis.

N.

S

N.
o
I

)1cnn.

O

I

O

I

O

I

40 10 13
22

40 36 34 46
··--------'

DECLDIATIOX, DIP, AND INTENSITY.

! ~calc- rend- /
d.
29·12

Dcclinnlion . (cast).

l:lcan dip.

~orizo.ntnl llltcnstty.
Dynt·s. 0·2954 47 51

I

Mag-nclic

---------- ·--·--

moment. -·----

1892. June 2 3 4

0

40 29·00

42·0 37·0 47·5

127·9 '9
'')

GRAVI'J'Y OllSEltVA'.l'lONS.
/I,

Pendulum periods (Sidereal i:;cconds)

13 1 = 0·5010797 B 2 = 0·5009920

B:i
I\.A.WAIHAE.

=

0·500Ua2o

Island of Jlawai·i.
Leaving Honolulu i:t the afternoon of June 28, on board the Kinau, we anived at Kawaihac ou the evening of tl1e 2Hth. The party consisted of Prof. W. D. Alexander, surveyor-general; Messrs. W. E. Wall, W. \IV. Chaml>erh1i11, Louis Koch, and myselt: The first .:>bservations were made OH the 30th. The work at tliis station comiisted of' gravity, latitude, time, and magnetic determinations. The station was situateil Oil the propt>rty of the lion. Samuel Parker, to whom, as well as to tlrn gelleml superiutendcut, Mr. Paul Jarrett, our thanks are due for mu11y acts of kinduesa. The connection between the astronomical station an1l the triangulation of the Governmellt survey wus carefully made. '.l'lie general location of the property is between the boat landing uud the Hohm of Kamehameh~t 1, and about oue-third the distance from the Heiu°' lllm;t.ration No. 27 g'ives the relative positioui;. Illustration No. 26 shows the triangulation statiou and shore line.

588

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Position of latUudc xta.tfon a.t Jlwu:a.ilwc, Hawaii.
· P r.uL KarruxLii

JVortk Base ·

· SouiJi,Base

Distauce from Pun Kamalii to 1101·tli uast\ = 5:n7·47 ft. " " ': " " Kcmth '' = liG14·3!) " ,, " = 7° 34' z " " "
0
II

( ieodt~tic L l'nu Kamalii = :!O " df, - ()
" J, 1 i-;outh

0:3 01
02

28·80 5·00
2:{·80
II

base

'.!0

<h·()(letic JI Pun Kamalii=
" tl1lf
Jl['

=+

liiii 0

47
00

!.!i·rn O!H4

"
1. 2.

south base

'l'ravcrse, son th biise to Kawaihae latitude station:

x
"

N r,20 4;3 1 R, 100 ft. to peg "A" (l rm w., G8.7 ft. to latitude Htation

Latitude i;tation 128·77 ft. uorth of 1-1outh hase

"

"

"

U. S. Coast and Geodetic SLJr'iey Report for 1893.

Part II.

No. 27.

Location. of' Ka:wa.iha.e SU:dion..s
1¥Uk reference to So.Base

l

Sou.t.h Base

Property of' U1e Hon... Swnuel Parker
Scale J-7ZO

A = Latuu.d.e pz,erfMeru:J.i.AJJ1,, telescope)

B cDip Circle C .Magnetometer D .Ru.Uts or:.·ton.e MILS<: (John. YoW19')
P .Penc/..u.,l.,u.m, Sf..a-lion_,

U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II.

No. 28.

1

c
A-·-/
I
J

·-B

I I

I
I

b
I
I

b

C ~ Raised. Pl"'1/0rm, D- Platform., and. Pi.II E- Top ul' ou.Ur wall. F .. Firsl U:rro.ce

I
I
I

\

E
\

(). Pao/4!d, spcu:e JI R EnJ.ro.Jt.Ce bet.:wet:rL -wa..llr

\
\

1
\

G
I

0

J

I z:1 Srorte :wallF J ~ 01<U::r 6'lope Ka Secon cl terra.c;e Lu Thir<l ,, .Ill: Sloping wall. a,.a .· Lw9c f'la1.6Wne.< O·t t.<>p 01· Y:ru.secL pla..tform. b. b.~Spa.c.: pa,,e<l ·H·ilhpebpU.r.t./Vrm,
bl~.v rm.. f.op

or rui.se(;l

1

Grounrl.

Section, on, A-B
IQO !<-et.

Plan

of' Puu KolwU al Ka:w~. Hawai.i

or Heiau

REPORT l!'OR 1893-PAR'r II.
0
II

589
23·80 1·28 2lHl8
If

Latitude L south base = 20 02 dL = + 00
'' L' latitude sta. =
~O
0

O~

Longitude ,11 souLh base = 155 47 iiM 00
·' ill' latitude sta.= 155

-17

35·63

At this station are Lhe remains of.' an ancient temple, famous in early Hawaiian l1istur.v as the sce11c of the first steps lJy which all the isla11ds were com;olidat.ed nuder 0110 government. It was here that Kau1eha1ueha bctraycu and mm·dered his rival, Keoun, lJaked his lJody in an oven as a last indignity, and finally deposited it in the temple on the altar of the wat· g·Oll. He was he11ceforth recog·uized as the mai:;tcr ol' Hawaii, A sketch of this interc8ting lleiau from actual measurewents has been fnrnishetl by Profossor Alexander anu is given here as a matter of curiosity. [lllustrntion No. 28. J A remarkable foature of it is that although the early Hawaiians had no metal tools, and are to-day poor mathematical reasoners, their temI>les famish oxamples of quite aeenmte right angles. One tested with a tlleotiolite at Napoopoo was sm1n·isingly near the truth. Magnetic observation,,; were made on July 1, 2, and 3. The pen<ln · Imus were swu11g on tho 3d, 4th, 5th, anti 6th, anti time and latitude were observed duri11g the eutirn stay. V{ e left 011 the morni11g of the 7th. 'rhe weather was generally favoraMe for work with tl1e exeeption of one or two oceasioru; when we had sudden gusts of wind from the mountains.· At this point premimtions were made for the ascent of l\launa Kea. Packers a11tl horses were engaged aml the ~;ervices of a guide secured. The connection of the astrnuumical station with the trigo110111etrical survey of the isla.ud was made at this station as well as at Kalaieha and vVaiau by Professor Alexander. l\leteorologieal observations were u'ndertaken here in councetion with tllose made at Honolulu and Hilo, to lJe used :mbsequently it1 determiniug the height of the mouutaiu. The pe11duh1111 receiver was rnmmted on a large and mas. sive cast-iron wheel, firmly e1111Jedtlml in the ground. 'l'his was part of the machinery of an old mill and was fortunately found 11ear the spot where it was desiralJle to uso it. · 'rhe teut was erected close by nnd the flash apparatus was set up iuside the tent. The meridian telescope was also erected so near that the tent fly served as a protection during the day, and at uight was released autl thrown back while the i:;tar observations were in progress. 'fhe following are the results of the pendulum observations:
"These storms arc culled muru1\k11 in tho uati V<l language, in ~-~utrad\i.~i~~tio;;t~ th~ storms from the southeast, which receive tho name uf kona.
~---

--------- ------ ----------

590

U. S. COA8T AND GEODETlC SUH.VEY.
l'c11d11/11111 ol>urt·alimtB, J{mvai./iat', llawaiian lBlancls.
IOb·orv<'r": R ll. l'ri·aton, \V. E. \Vall.]

------·
Pc.r.du- l:osilum. tton.

-~~! ,: 1---11 i:.;;;~ ;- ,:}) 2

!

' I s" ing-. I
J

----------------------·--·----------1·

Dale.

No. of Time of Semi-arc. coin,. ten co indT«.·mpcrt:iclcncc dcncc alurc. intervals. intcr\'als. Initial.! Final.

!

---·I -----·
·1

I Baromclcr.
111111.

s~!cd~t

i>rcs-

){ D
I)

3 4

3 4 4

5
6

4 '
4

R

18 16 18 24 30 14 16 18 20 18 28 36 14
IQ

Seconds. 2184·0 2187·8 2173·4 2165·6 2156·2 2143·0

~;;,~: :~~,;,~
4·9 4·9 4·6 4·9 4·9 4·9 3·0 2·8 2·8 2·9 2·5 2'0 3·3 2·8 27 2·6 2·7 2·1 1 ·3

0

c.

26·78 25·22 26·53 27·85 29·66 31 ·53 27'34 26·33 24·77 26·18 27·79 29·66 29·06 27·49 26·84 25·88 27·64 29·06 29·56

765·6

7b5·5
766·0 766·2 766·1 765·4 765·2 765·3 766·2 766·3 766·3 766·1 765·5 766·0 766·2 766·9 767·0 767·2 767·2

B,

I> R R D ]) R R
I> R
l>
]J

7 8 9 10
II

4 4

12 13

5 5 5 5 5
5

2343·6 2356·0 2369·5 2348·0 2334 ·7 2330·5 2353 ·6 2500·4 2498·5 2532·2 2494·4 2482·9 2485 ·7

s·o

5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0 3·9

B,

5
6 6 6 6

R
.R

28 16 14 14

i

4·6 ' 2·8 3·0 4·6 4·2 1 ·7 4·8 I 2·8 2·8 2·3
I;

::~ I

REPORT FOR 1893- PART II.
Rccluctio11 of pc11clul111n obun>11tio11s, Katl'ailwc, llmrniia11 l·landR.

591

[Periods rotlucrd to terup1·raturo, 15:i C.; J>fl'~Hmro, 500° m nt O? C.; arc inliuilt\ly HnmU; sidoroul time.]
1

-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

---·--- - - - - - Pciio<I corrected.

I
- - - - -- -

Corrections (in seventh clcdmal plncc).

Pcno<l uncorrcctc<l. :___ ··----------- --------- --·· ·----- ---···-----1 A1c. Tcmpcrnturc. Pressure. Rate.

------- -------54

- - - - ------St'co11ds.

S1·co11rls.

0·501 1473 14S4 1529 1s71 1622 1693

-SI

--4~

-S3 -47 ·-40

--489 -424 -479 -533 -608 --686

-154 -155 -- 1 55 -152 -148 --144

+333 +333 +333 't-333 +333 +333

0·501

I

________
157 0·501 0283 274 275 318 313 268

109 157 180 166 152 156

I
[

0·501 0690 0634 0 573 0670 0731 0750 0645

-60 ·-S2

--SI
-49

·:-SI
-42
-22

-512 ·-470 -405 -464 --531 -6o8 -583

-151 -154 -158 -155 -152 -148 -096

---~I 287
+314 +3'4 +-314 +314 +314 +314 0·500 9613 645 628 627
620

0·501 0018 0026 0 9893 I 0042 0089 0078

--so -29 ·-so
-49 ··-42

-48

-518 -491 -451 -525 -583 -603

-153 -154 -099 -154
-151 -150

597

~ ·- ··--- ·-· --···· - · - -

·-· _ _..!_ __________. · - - - · - - - ' - - - - - - - ' - - - - -

592

U. S. COAST AND GEODE'l'W SURVEY.
M.A.GNE'.l'IC OBSEIWA'l'IONS ·
..:lbstract of 1·es11lts, Hawailwc, Hawaii.
Dll'.
Needle i\'o.
I, N ccdlc No. 2. - - - - - - - - - ------ - - · · - - · - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Date.

- -- :\.
I

I
I

s.

Mcau.
-------·--

N.

s.

1'lca11.

1892. July

I

ll

I

0

38 32. 42 37

I
1

- -38 04 05 J3 38 J5 14 16

-----38 JO JO J4

37 46 48 41

38 O<J J5 09

:'\lean dip.

; 1lorizo11Utl I intensity.
1

i\lug-nctic moment.

- - - - - i ----·- -------· 1Jy11e. 0·3001 0·3025 0.3010
129·4 128·2 J27·8

09·5 12·5 11 ·5
-------

i- -··

·-----------

GRAVITY UH:-5EltVA'l'IUN8,
[Hide real ·ocumiH. J
H,

Pe11duhu11 pPriods

B 1 = 0·51111157 Bi 1Hi010!!87

=
=

B: 1

(h'JOOUW2

UE'l'EltMIN.A.'l'ION8 01<' L.A.'l'l'l't::I>E.

The latitude work at the three stations occupied for gravity was only of secondary importauce. 011ly a limitec.l uumber of pairs were selected for observation, auc.l at Ka.laielia the weather was so u11favorable tlrnt but three latitudeti were obtaiued. 'l'l.te instrument used was a meridian telescope of 31 inches focal leugth, 2~ inches aperture, and mag·1_iifyi11g power of 77. One rtwolution of tile micrometer gave an angular value of G5"·85. One division of the latitude level is equal to l"·GG, and that of the stridiug level is 2"·'.H. The im;trumeut is kuown as Meridian Telescope No.'..!. In making the observations ouly one hi sect.ion was made, and the level was uot re~ul morc than ouce, generally a.Her the measureme11t with the micrometer. 'l'he rcsults are not comparable iu poiut of accu!'acy with those umue at Waikiki with the ~euith telescope, partly 011 account of the inferior accuracy of the in· Htl'llmcut, but prineipally because tho pier was geuerully constructed nuder poor conditions of stability. At Kawaibae a11d Kalaieha ouly a wooden pier wu.s av<~ilal>lll, auu at Waiau tl!e great difficulty of traus-

U . S . Coas t and Geode ti c Survey Re port for 1893 .

Part II.

No. 29.

MAUNA KEA, AS SEEN FROM WAIMEA, DISTANT 15 MILES, LOOK ING SOUT HEAST .

Cloud belt at 10,000 feet elerntion.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.

593

portation and labor made it 11ecesimry to construct a very small SUU· structure. The followiug tables give the meau places and the individual results for lati tu de; e is the probable error aud f' is the proper motion:

No. of star (U.S. C.nnd Jllcnn "R.ht G. S. cata- usccnsiu11 ( . A.). loguc).

--

llfrrm plac1·s of lafit11dc stars.
' I I

--- -- ------------1
I
'l can <Il'l r rna t ton (o) , .

I

,. '

· . I
1

Propcr motion/ (µ).

1892.0.
It.
IJI.

I__ I

1892·0.
I

-1
II II II

s.

65 73 78 1247 8313* 1257 1267 1284 1298 1302 1309 1317 1322 1333 1337 1342 1346 1361 1367 1383 1387 1390 1394 1416 1424 1428 1429 1436 1438 1449 1451 1457 1462 1471 1474 1477 1489 1499 1522 1524

0 15

43 49 51 01
II

16

13 20 30 36 38 43 46 51 57 03 07
JO

17 01 26 50 12 48 24 06 43 12

52
32 28 39 12 55 38 34 28 49 14 53 27 58 03 44 36 33 35 57 09 56 49 05 18 03 26 49 08 55

17

18

21 25 35 37 39 42 59 06 09 10 13 14 19 22 25 28 33 36 38 42 50 02 02

16 21 23 02 22 50 4S 34 - 8 59 2 IO 37 45 27 04 13 II 26 38 18 28 21 18 16 00 23 06 17 20 5 17 34 07 37 38 2 13 12 36 27 07 34 14 5 26 - 0 44 40 54 14 30 24 58 10 58 28 56 37 14 20 10 2 48 19 ::o 24 22 15 14 24 37 39 21 0 41 s 13 30 32

26·70 35 ·7o 03·63 o6·01 02·94 27·21 21 ·60 41 ·89 38·95 16·52 31 ·07 09·86 51 ·59 16·19 05·41 51 ·29 52·76 24·51 13·89 17 ·63 30·74 17·07 26·27 36·71 44·69 49·27 00·44 54·60 10·13 44·45 24·11 21·10 o6·s8 27·88 01 ·65 07·43 47 ·92 13·16 13·35 47 ·59

o·oS

·03 ·05 ·03 ·02 ·02
·02

·02 ·08 ·02 ·02 ·07 '02 ·05 ·03 ·10 ·03 ·05 ·01 ·07 ·08 ·04 ·10 ·04 ·05 ·01 ·04 ·04 ·07 ·03 ·04 ·04 ·06 ·04 ·50 ·03 ·04 ·09 ·10 ·04

-0·210 ---0·042 ---0·054 +0·023 --0·030 -0·524 -/-0·071 -0·107 --0·029 ·-: 0·029 -0·104 ! 0·005 --- I ·299 +0·025 ---0·023 -0·005 -0·128 -0·022 -0·093 -0·022 --0·062 +0·058 -0·057 --0·006 +0·007 +0·022 --0·165 -0·094 -0·012 +0·010 +0·024 -j-0·014 -0·096 ---0·004 --0·070 -0·118 o·ooo ---0·021 --j-o·m9 +0·057

--------------"' 8tonu'"' Catnlog:uo.

S. Ex. 19, pt. 2--38

U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II.

No. 30.

I I

I I I I \ \

\\

,, ,,

,,
\\

\\ \\ \'

\\

',' ---.....___' \~' '

' '' '

~

_ _ _ _ _ _ _J

U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part 11.

No. 30.

II

I I I I
~

\ \\

,, ,,

,, ,, ,, ,, '\ ,,

~\~\

' '\ \ ' '

~

___ _J

REPORT FOl{ 1893-P.ART II.
Abstract of 11wy11etio 1·esults, ll'ai111ea, Hawaii.
IHP.

595

DECLIXA'l'ION, l>II', AND INTENSITY.

----Dlltc.

----------·---

-·

·---------------,
II

lsc11lf rc11clinl'(ll . o a.xis. ·1

Dcclina)tion II Mean <lip. (cast. .., .. - - - -

l_lorizontal mtcnstty.

I

.Magnetic

moment.

Jt:1~92 8
:_~
9

i I
!

I

; 9

50'0 03·0 0 2

3:

41 '0 22·5

-i--·~!;~~6
I
1s

:--12-8-·o--I 12 9 ·3 4

_ _ ___ I__

~-~~

______-i_·_______ 3_3_·5_l'--__s_6_'---1-28_·__
1

NOTE.-On July 8 the magnetic station was at the west entl uf the base line of the Government survey. On July 9 ancl l I the station was half n mile clistant from the previous one, at a point occupic<.l in 1872 by Mr. C. J. Lyons, uf the Survey staff.

KALAIEIIA.

Leaving Waimea at 7.25 a. m. on July 'l~, we arrived at Kalaieha at 5 o'clock in the eve11iug,lrnvi11g passed tlie e11tire day in the saddle. The distance is auout 30 miles. The road is uot steep, as the elevation to ue overcome uotweeu the two places is 011ly ·l 000 foet. This gives an averag·e rise of 1 in 40, or au inclination of auout lz 0 · On the road specimens of Java were gathered at designated points in order to form a basis for estimating t110 average density of the rocks of tho island. The route taken, :w well as the points from which specimens were obtained, is shown in illustmtiou No. ::n. Kalaieha is situated on the Ilumuula rauch, which contains 237 000 acres, including a part of llamakua. The tract ru11::; down to the sea on the wi11dward side and extends from tlie summit of Mauna Loa ou the south to Mauua Kea on the north. At its widest region it i::; 20 miles broad. Its longest dimension is about 45 miles. On July 13 the stations were located and the tents and instruments put in position, a11d 011 the following· day work was begun. The peudnlmn receiver was mounted on a large rock about 100 feet west of the house farthest to the west, aud the latitude }lier was within 2 or 3 feet of the }leudulum i11 a southeast direction. The !llaguetic station :was 200 foot due north of tho pendnlum. A general view of Kalaieha is shown in illustration :N'o. 32, 1'he prominent peaks along the patll to the summi~ ~l'e identified by rectangular coordiuates. ' ·

U, S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893 .

Part 11.

No. 31.

+
Kolt,\u.

+

I +

t

lo' t1w1Ji}tQ.e

- +

llw ·bor

+

ISLAND

OF

HA,¥All

REDUCED FROM

+

+

GOVERNMENT SURVEY MAPS
Specinu:n.s ohta.vi.ecl aL 1,2, A,.B, etc.
L rn ·n F /Oh'S cuuf,, Tirne sho ..-11 thus : 1868.

or Eruptlo11;.

U S Co<ts1 ar.d Geodetic Survey Rt>por1 for 1 e93

Par! IL

No. 31.

+

I

I
I

"'''

''",,

··,,

... .,

'«.

+

-'"i"'

I

I

!r

i':\ ~ ---1 ..
1~~·'

ll1tvBoy

'"':>\ "'" \
11·~ .. 1 .. 1.. ..

i
I
I

I

n....

A.,.,,

I
~---

-;-

/

>-/
/

Jr;;;::
ISLAND
OF

HA,VAB
i

REDUCED FROM

1-- +
I
L-,, ...r------------- ___,.,_

+

GOVERX~ENT
La ··a Flows
<UU/

SURVEY lllAPST!

Spenm..t.·n.-r oht.a.J1tecl a.t, 1.2.A,B, elc.

Ti11u' ol' .b~r11ptio11,.
j

sll<>n'll " " ' " ' 1868.

--L--

:-~--i,--·,-~

I

I
'

~ --

~ ...-- I I
z
0

-- ~

--<»

- - '+-.

__ .,

';:. - -

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR.'1' II.

597
00"

Geodetic Z Kalaieha, north base to latitude station = 28° 56' Distance " '' " " " = 202·5 feet
0

Geodetic L north base= rn d L Geodetic Iatit.n<le of Iatitndc station = HI
0

·

II

·12 00 42
~5

:l;1·2:: MG :l:l·47
II

Geodetic M 11orth base= 155 <l ill =+ Geodetic longitude of' latitude station= Hi5

00 25

52·26 1·02 53·28

The above position of Omaokoili depe11ds 011 the correctness of a short base measured near .Aalmwela. a11d a chai11 of six triangles carefully measured. 'l'he error prolJably does 11ot exceed 0"·20.

598

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVRY.
J'cll(lufum. o/Jsr.r1·a.fi011R, lifllniel111, llnwa.iin11 !Rla11ds.

[ Ous.,rrnrs: K U. l'r0Hfo11, "'. K \\' u 11.]
··---

------------------· Semi-urc. ' !_______ ,Temper· I uturc.

Pcndu· lum.

. i' J~os1-1
lion.

S . wing.

Date.

!
1

No. of Tune of cointen coinci cidcncc dcnce intcn·a1s. intervals.

I J nitul

Ftn.11.1
111111.

PresBnrom- sure at elcr. o 0 c.

;

n,

i 1892.
ll
){

1· - - -

2

I

!{
j)
)) ]{

3 4
6

5

July 14 ! 14 I 15 15 15 15

12 8 16. 18 34 30
22

Scco11ds. 2129·6 2128'1 2112·8 2106·; 2110·6 2121·2 23o7·5 2320·0 2342·0 : 232(,-il I 2313·0 2301 ·4

11~m.
I

~
14'77 J4·36 16·61 17·04 16·99 15·76 13·61 12·51 10·44 11·40 12·81 14·07 14·77 14·97 14·77 14·16 13·36 12·76

111111.

111111.

5·1 5·1 4·0 5·0 5·0 5·0
4 ·0

4'0 4·0 2·7 3·5 2.2 2·4 2·8 3·2 3·1 3·1
[2

6o4·4 604·4 6o5·2 605·3 6o5·0 6o,1·7 6o5·2 605·7 6057 6o5·8 605·9 605·8 606·2 6o5·9 605·4 605·0 605·6 606·0
I

572 573 570 568 568 571 576 578 582 581 579 574 573 573 574 576 578

B,

I
!
I

~~ I>
R
])

I> R

7 8 9
JO II

15 15
I()

16 16
J()

12 13 14 15 16 17 18

14 12 20 32 28 28 14 20 24 18

4·8
4·3
~

I

·o

5·0 5·0 4·9 4·9 4·8 4·8 4·7 4·7

·3]

2·4 .2·1 2·9 2·7 2·3 2·9 3·0

575

i B, I R I R i ])
· 1·.· ] )

J(J

R

____l_J__ I~ -__

16 16 16 16

2439 ·6 I 2427 ·9 I 2431 ·51 2446·7 2456·4 c__

~459·0_ I

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II ..
Re1l1tction of pn1d11l111n ol1Rei·1·nfion.·, Jinlaielln, llnll'niia11 Isla.ml ....

599

{Pt\riodR rcdnl·etl to tf,mpernt.ttrn. t!ir, C.; p1·oe~11ro, 50Q 111 m nt O? C.:. i an~ influitr.ly ~mmll; 1·\i(h·rt nl timn.]

Corrections {in se\'cnth clccimal plnce). Period uncorrecte;l. - - - - · - - - - --------- 1 · - - · - - - - - - , - - - - - ···-

Period corrcctc<l.

----- __ .~~ __ i1~m~:r".:rc.;
-73 -73 -39 -63 --44 --46

Pressure.

J __

Rate.

Seconds.

0·50I I767 I774 186I I896 1873 18I3

+

+

IO 27 67 8S 83 32

-S7 -58 -SS 54

i

Seconds_

- -54
--s6

2s8 -! 258 -f 269 i 269 -\-269 +269

~

0·501 190_<; 928 969 963 96I 948

0·50I 0858 0799 0693 0768 0832 0886

-SI -56 -48 -S7 -4S -46

ss + -;-103 +189 \-I49 + 91 + 39

-60 -62 -6s --64 62 -59

+269 \-269 t 269
'-2(i9

j-2ii9 \- 269

0·50I 1074 0 S3 038 o6s o8s 089

o·soI 0269 0318 0303 0239 0198 0188

-4I --S3 -49 -43 -SI -S2

+ t+

+ + -\-

IO IO

-sS
-58 -sS -58 -60 -62

+269 +269 +269
1-2(i9

3S
(i8

93

+2(>9 ·-i-269

0·50I 0449 477 47S 442 425 436

---··------· -- ·---·--·-·-·-

600

U. S. COAST· AND GF.ODETIC SURVEY.

The latitude observations at this station were made with great difficnlt.y. During the entire stay not more thau four pairs could be obtained. 'fhe enmings w<>re always either fog-gy or rainy, and as the telescope was mounted in the open air, it was often 11ecessary to lift it from the Ys and take it inside the tent to be dried. Th.e latitude was always made to give way for the time observations, as tlmse were 11ecessary for the success of the g-ravity work, which was the real objective point of' tlie trip.
J.'i:H11/tx
1~/'

/ati/111fo 01i.,,,,.,.11/io11R a! lialaiellll, Hawaii.

.<U.S. C and G. S. obscr\'nlions.I I catalogue). : ----· .. ----·-·-pair.

~o.

of

~ 0 · of sta~
..

1\umher of

J

Latitude.

'
2

//

1298--1302 1309-1317

3
4

65 ..

65- 7.l

.

1

I I
1

I ,
1

7'>

!

I

19 42 o:;·i 02'5 03·1

oi ·7

- - 4 - - -;-9-:;;~:c:-1 (Total) (Mean)
......

-

·- · - - - -

A/Jsll'ac/. of111a911dic l't!81tltH at Jialait:ha, Hawaii.
DI I' .
:\'ecd]c
~o. 1.

.. . -- - - )lean .
X.

~cc·~~~-K~~ ;~-~---=-~!
S.

Dale.

x.
1892. July q 15 [' 16
0

s.

.i
0

. _ I______ - - -

I

Menn.

·

39

12 09 14

38

23 34 19

38

53

50 39

.:;s

43 46

s~
I

.
1

3°8

1

I

50 41 50

lJIWLINATJlll'>, l>II', AND l!'l'l'EX8J'l'Y.
. I Scale reading-. I ' f axis. o I [ Horilontnl ! intensity.

Date.

l.lcLlination
(cist).

Mea.1 clip.

Mngnetic
moment.

I

1--

,1892. July 14 15 16

- --1·
o.

-----

' I

i

Dync'. 0·2949 0·2958
_

l_ _ _

I ____ _

____ \

GH.AVJTY OBSERVA'l'IONS.

! Siflerenl

Rnconth~. J

s.
Pendulnm B 1 =0·501194G
B 2 = 0·50110G7 B 3 = 0·5010451

U S C oast and Geode tic Survey Report for 1893 . Part II.

No. 33.

WAIAU LAKE, NEAR SUMMIT OF MAUNA KEA.

Ele vation over 13,000 teet.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
WAIAlJ.
[Soo ill11·trntion No.

601

aa.]

The instruments were dismounted at Kalaielrn on July 18 and packed for the final ascent. 'rtie distance to the summit, in an air line, is about 7 miles, antl the difference of elevation about 7 000 foet. The path, however, was about 13 miles in leugth, and ·w aiau is 700 feet below the summit, so that the average rate of rise was 1in11, or an angle of about 5~ 0 · The amount of material to be transported to the top of the mountain was very great. Besides the astro·nomical, gravity, and magnetic instruments, and the provisions required to maintain the party on the summit long enough to complete the work, it was necessary to carry fuel, tents, and blankets, and enough cement to build a pier for the meridian telescope. 'l'he whole outfit was.packed on 11 mules, and ube party consisted of 11 persom;, including 3 packers. Everything being ir. readiness, a start was made on the moming· of July 19. Before get~ing we11 under way, however, a fog· set in. Some of the pack animals became difficult to manage, aud soon it was noticed that the mule carryir1g the magnetic instruments, prohably the most delicate ones of the outfit, was missing. A halt was made and eight of the party started in search, but as the fog was now dense, our efforts were of no avail. After a couple of 11olll's of delay it was decided to abandon the jonmey for the day. 'Ve a11 return ell to Kalaielm, the animals were unpack9d, and the day given up to Jnmting the Jost iustruments. The mule was found about 3 p. m. at the foot of' the Omaokoili hills, some 3 miles distant. On the fo1Jowi11g day we ag;ain set out at 7.40 a. m. At 11.40 a stop was made for lunch. 'l'he ronic passed between J,epe it M'oa on the left and Kole on the right, aud we uow found ourselves at an altitude of about 10 000 feet. Couti11ui11g.- iu the direction of Kconehehee, and climbing this cinder cone in a.' northeast direction (see illustration No. 34), we arrived at the plateau level at 2 p. m. 'fhe elevation of this point is 11 GOO feet. 'fhe mamame trees were not seen above 10 000 feet, and tl1e raillardia, the only remaining sign of vegetation, disappeared at 11 500 feet. From this point on, the path was over an unbroken landscape of Java. Some i11teresti11g pyramids of stone, built to commemorate Queen Bmma's visit, were seen 011 the edge of the plateau, and at au elevatio11 of l'.3 000 feet was found Keanakakoi, a faltlous quany opened by the natives many centuries ago for the ma11ufacture of battle axes. At an elevation of 11early 13 000 feet, near Lilinoe, a burying ground. was found, where the ancient chiefs were laid to rest in tl1e red volcanic sand. Before reaching the plateau the animals suffered considerably from the rarity of the atmosphere. On the_fla11k of Keonehehee it was with great dilliculty tliat they were driven-with tongneA out and· sinking ankle 'deep in the soft scoria at every step, they presented a pitiable picture indeed and seemed

602

U. S. COAST AND GEODETTC STTRVEY.

utterly regardlcf.ls of t.he uriv<m:i' nrgi11~, whet.her with noise or whip. Although heavily la(len, they rcpeatt>dly lay 1low11, profiting by even a few minutes, when unobserved, to snatch a few moments' rest. · Some were m1able to reach the destination an<l hnd to be unloaded tltreequarters of a mile from Waiau and turned loose to descend to the plains below. 'fheir loa<ls were repacked 011 stronger mnles, which were sent hack from the l':'nmmit. The endurance of these mountain animals is n·markable. On the leeward side of the islallll, where it seldom rains, it is a common occurrence for them to pass t>ight days without water, and ci.tses are Oil reconl where two weeks lrnH\ elapsed between drinking timei'I. Our camp wai'I established on the hanks of the lake know11 as Waiau. [See Frontispiece.] This if; a ho1ly of water formed bytbe melting snow all(l gathered from the silles of a11 Pxtinct crater. It is one of the highest ho1lics of water in the worl1l, heing; at an elevation of over 13 000 foet. At 4 p. 111. the baggage was all at the station a11d the animals were sent hack to Kalaieha, as there is no provender within many miles of the place. The hoiliug point of water on the summit (illustration No. 35) is about 1sc;o F. The rangPs of temperature 1lnri11g om· stay were from mo F. at night to 108° F. in the daytime, the thermometer having tlte 1mmc position at uoth tim<'s. The lmrmncter stood at. 18·:W inches at ;,40 F. '\Ve found the tra(le winds blowi11g at the ~mmmit, although the a11titrades are supposed hy some to appear much below 14 000 feet elevation. The a,t111m1phere was very <!lear. Many Htnrs were obsc1-ved before snndow11 with a small telescope. W c ha(], of course, ice every night on tlw lake. "With sueh cxtrc111e ranges or temperature there was mnch discomfort. Skepiug cots were not taken, as it was eutircly too cold at night to lie off the ground. It was found necessary to make sleeping bags by sew in:;?; blanketR toµ;ethcr. Alt.houi;?;h for miles in every direction nron11d 'Waiau there is :tn unbroken l:111<1scape of lava, and appare1itly nothing to support lifo, we saw spiders, hntterflies, and flies during the stay. Around the shores of the lake the following plants were found growing, altltongh the lake itself is sever:1l thousand foet above the last limit of vegetation. 'l'hey were submitted to Presideut D. C. Gilman, of the .Johns I-Iopkirn; University, wllo kindly forwarded the list, as follows:

Cystopteris fragilis Bernh. Trisetum glomeratnm 'frin. Poa aunua J_,., forum vel vaz. Descbampsia australis Nees.
The first specimen was <letermined by Mr.·Tohu Donnell Smith, and the last three by Dr. George Vasey. Ali t.he above phiuts were fonncl growing near the same locality, at an elevation of about 13 100 feet above sea level. See illustration :N'o. :35 for summit view.

U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 1893.

Part II,

No. 34.

','ti.:----------------i-=------------------------------zJ;;·..,.-~.-:;o;w;;n;.;;r-··---------------...
PALEKOIU
lllllt

zo

SUMMIT PLATEAU
or

MAU NA KEA
Surveyed
JuLy~/892

by

W.D.AU!xande.r, Sur. Genl.
10000 FT.

KtONE.H[Htt 115'10

10

U. S. Coast and Geodetic S urvey Report for 1893.

Part II .

No. 35.

VIEW FROM KU-KA-HAU - ULA, THE SUMMIT OF MAUNA KEA, LOOKING SOUT HWEST.

Ele··ation 4.214 mete rs (13,825 feet).

REPOR'l' FOR lil93-'-PAR'l' II.

'603

The Geodetic Position of Wrtinu, La.titudc Station.
0
II

Latitude of Manna Kea (primary triangulation) rn !iO Longitude " " " " " 155 2G

01 ·G::> N. 18·7!i ·w.

· Geodetic Z Mauna Kea to "Peak A" = Gfl 0 2u' 00" Distauce from " " " " " log (feet) = 3·Gi>ti:l.UO " " " " " " " log (metrcR) =3·14037:3::> Geodetic d L from l\'launa Kea 1.o "Peak A''= -15"·785 " .U of "Peak A" = l!)Cl 4!!' 45"·845 Geodetic d M from Manna Kea to "Peak A"= +44"·45ti " 11/' of ".Peak A" = Hi;'JO 27' 03"·20u Geodetic Z "Peak A" t.o \Vaiau latitude station= ;}370 18' 45"·00 Dii:;tance from " " " " " " log (feet) = 3·583!)00 " " " log (metres)= :3·0U7!la~ " " " " '' Geodetic dL' from "Peak A" to \Vaian latitude station= -35"·087 " latitmle of Waiau latitud(I station =mo '!!l' 10"·7Ll8 GeocleticdilI from" Peak A" to Waiau latitude station= -15"·500 " longitude ol \Vaiau latitude station· = Hi5° 2W 4 7"·706 Position of latitude station probably correct within 3 feet.. All tl1e above longitudes are conventional and shonl<l be corrected by adding 2' to them. 'l'he latitudes are derive1l from the main triangulation. 'l'he alwve computation was supplic(l by the Government 8urvey Office iu Honolulu.

604

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Pendulum obsBrvations, Waiait, Hawaiian Islands.
[Observors: E. D. Preston, W. E. Wall.]
I

No. of coin· cidence
- - - --- ---- ---·· 1

Time of Semi-arc. ten coinci- 1 _ _ _ _ _ _ 1'Fempcr- Bnromdencc aturc. ctcr. .

s~~~8;l
0

_1_n_1e_r_va_1s_ .. ,_1n_1e_r_vals ..

Initi~l:
111111.

o C.

1

Final. . · · - - - ____ - - 1/llJl.

D R R D D R D R R D D R D R R D

I

2

3 4

5
6

1892. July 22 22 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 23 24 24 25 25

22 22

z6
20 22 20 24 24 16 20 18 24 18 16 20 16 18 42

Seconds. 1992·7 2020·9 2049·4 2011 .5 1 977 ·7 1955·2

5·0

5·0
5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0 5·0

3·5 3·4 3·1 3·7 3·5 3·5 3·1 3·2 3·7 [3·5] 3·6 3·2 3·5 3·1 2·9 3·0 3·1 1·9

° C. mm. 10·09 477·0 7·57 477·2 3·95 477 ·3 7"571477"8 I I 20 478·1
0

13·91 15·77 16·85 17·09 16·85 14·07 II '45 13·71 12·10 3·30 4 ·70 7·02 10·15

478·1 478·0 477·8 477·6 477·5 477·2 477·2 478·7 478·9 478·5 478·61 478·9 479·0 I 451 449 449 449 I 453 457 456 458 472 470

8 9
I I

7

IO

!

12 13 14 15 16 17 18

2087·1 2078·1 2071 ·6 2o65·0 2092·2 2126·9 2221 'I 2238·8 2359·5 2338·1 2309·4 2272·1

5·0
5·0

I

5·0.

I

·n
R

25

466
461

25

I

I

i

------ · · · - - ' - · - - - - ' - - - - - - ' - - - - '

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Reduction of pendulum observations, Waiau, Hawaiian Islands.

605

[Periods r0<luce(fto temperature, 150 C.; pressure, GOQmm at 0° C.; arc Infinitely ·mall; eidereal thm>.]

-Corrections (in seventh clccimal place). ·- -··-··-·--- -Period uncorrected. ------·--··------- -- ··-------·. Rate. Arc. Temperature. Pressure.
-·-·--

Period correcter1.

'

Seconds.

Seconds.

0·501 2578 2401 2228 2460 2674 2820

-63 -62 -57 -67 -63 -63

+204 -j-308 +459 +Jo8 +158 -+045

+32 +28 +23 +28 +33 f-36

+309 +3°9 +309 +3°9 +309 +309

-----3050 0·501 2267 271 292 345 247 163 264

0·501 306o 2984. 2962 3038 Jtll 3147

0·501 2008 2058 2097 2136 1976 1781

-57 --59 -67 -63 --65 -59

-

- 77

32 77 87

+

39 -j-147

+39 +40 +40 -t-40 +37 --l-34

-j-309 +309 +309 +309 +26o -f-260

0·501 1281 1191 0618 0715 0849 1027

---62 -44 -49 -49 -52 -34

I

!

!

+ 54 +120 f-486 +427 +331 +201

-l-35 +33 +22 +23 +27 +JI

+260 -j-26o +26o +26o +26o +260

-----457

0·501 1568 56o 337 376 415 485

-···------

I - - - - ----------- - - - - - - - - - - -

606

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUI?VEY.
AbBlract of 111ay11ctic rc81lllB at Waiau, BU111111it of 11la11111t llea, Ila1t'aii.

mP.
:-."ccdle
Date.

~o.

1,

-1---·--l\ccc~~ ;:-,~----

I892. July 2I i 22 ! 23

.\---1-·---- - - ---- - - ! - · - · · o, 0, 01 0,\0. 1
38 60 57 54

I- -;:--,-- ~:----·Mca1;.--i---;;----:--~~I
1

--[

-~,::-

.... - ·-·-· -

38

I

09 I3 I7

38

34 35 36

I i I

38 - 42 24 4I

38

14 38 42

3s

"I
28 31 42

I
I

.

I

lJJo:CLINATJON, ll!P, AND DITENS!TY.

----1-·-···-·-1·-- ···-----·-·-,---·------·--··-·- --···-····-·--·1
.
]

Date.

Scale
1

of axis.

rc;~ding,j Dcdit~ution
l
(caJo.t).

1----1-----i. ---·-··---·
1892. July 2I 1 I ~2
'1

l

\

)lean di

I·

1

l l_lorito.ntnl l :\1a~ncttc
i
mt r:s1ty. [ moment.

·------··---1--0

1-[
1
:~n

I ·------------

34

cl. 30·02 29·24

.

0

Dy1u.
3I ·o JJ~~
~:~g~~

IO 2I ·o _________ IO
·--·

38

24·4

-------··-·----

-

------------

AB8'l'RAC'.l' oF GRA. Vl'.l'Y 1U:Sl:L'l'8.

Ii.

Pemlnlnm B1 = o·.:mrnor;o B 2 = O·f;01~~64 n~ = o·a011457

'fhe latitude of the station waH 1letcrmi11c<l hy lilly-two meaHmes 011 sixteeu pain; of stars, as follow:,;:
L<1tilude of traia11.

:·~ i ~ "· '

·--·;-·- ir) ~o~-:~;-~t;:r-:,u·.-s. c~i·~·~,~~c~·-:;·1·· --- 1.-a.-t,.t,·,·,-,.~. - ·---,
0

pa · \ ouuJ G. S. calaloguc).[obscrvations.

.... 1

··1------1- -·--'-I
2

-·-1
0

3
4

6

5

7 8
9
JO II

I2 I3 I4 I6

IS

1257-1267 I298-1302 I309-13I7 I322-1333 I342-1346 IJ61-1367 1383-1387 IJ90-IJ94 14I6-I424 1428-I429 I4J6-I438 1451-1462 I47I-1474 1471-1477 I489-1499 1522-1524

I I I

~

19

48

~H I
50·8 51 ·2 52·3 53·3 52·4 54·0 52·2 52·5 52·1 50·4
II

II

I

3 43 4 4 4 4
4

I

4 3
2

s.o-6

3 2 _ _5_2_1_-;;-48

53·0 49'4 52-:;;-

(Total)

I I

(Mean)

lmPOHT FOR 1803--PART II.

607

The geodetic positions of the three statio11s on Hawaii, as communicated by Profos8or Alexander, arc given in t!te third columu following:

----·-------·---------\
Stations. ,

La tit 111lC11.
··::f~l::n~~~-1·--1latitude. :

----~~=){~::-··1A~-~~:~:~:1-l
latitude.
0111

I 111i11usgl.'udcl1c.

i

i __ · ------ ·---'----- ----lo111

-·1·--------1-------------1 II

Kawaihac KnLtieha Wninu

. I

. 2·) 02 05·9 : 20 02 25·1 19 42 02·6 l 19 42 32·4 . 19 48 52·0 I 19 49 w·8

-19·2 -29·8 -18·8

The above table shows that there is a dcttcction of the plumb line toward tlie 11orth at all three 1-1tations, and the dcttection at Ka.laieha appears to be much more rnarketl tha11 at Pitl1er of the otl1er stations. By i·eference to illustration No. 31 it will ut1 8Ce11 that we should expect a greater dettection at Kalaieha than at eithel' of the other two. Tlie deflection at Ka Lac, the extreme southern point of the island, appears to be about l' 2!J". '.l'his result is from work dolle hy myself at this point in 1887 with :i:c11fth tele8cope No. l, awl a snl>seq11e11t trm11gulatio11 by Mr. J. S. Emcrso11, of the Ilawaiiau Govem111c11t Survey, previous to 18Ul.
FlW;\1 WAIAU TO HILO.

Tlw last observations were made at vVaiau on the evening of .July 25. The next morning the animals arrived from Kalaieha. 'l'hey were packed <luring the forenoon of -the 2Gth, and at 1.00 }l. m. we started down. "\V c reacl.wtl the II umu ula ranch ( Kalaieha) at 5.45 p. m., hav· iug stopped an hour at Keauakakoi. On the 27th the i11strurnents and baggag·e were all repaekctl. 'l'he party separated at this place, some goiug down the windwttrd side of the mountain to Hilo, and theotlierH returniug to the sea over the sa1ue route taken iu the ascent. 'fllis courtie was necessary hccanse magnetic observations were to be carri'ed on at Hilo, and as it was impossible to tran8port the bag-gage to the steamer on this si<le of the islarnl, it was sent to \Vai111ea a)J(l then to Ka.waihae. We left Kalaieha at o a. m. 011 July 28th with a small pack ·train a.nu ii guide. 'fhc path is about 30 miles long, very rough, aud much of the way over sharp lava. "\Ve were supplied with horseshoeing implements. 'l'lti8 is a requisite to O\·eryonc making the trip. The lava Js so har<l aml sharp that if a 8lloe is lost the horse's foot is badly cut in a few rniuutes, arnl ucitlHll' persuasion nor force will induce him to continue the route uusl10d. :Many cm·casi--;es were seen ·along the road, of animals that had been kille<l or left to die, as there is uothiug by the wayside to support iife. .J 11st before ~t1Ti ving at Hilo we passed through 1~ mi)e8 of S\\'ltlllpy woods, wJ1iclJ cons1111Jed two lJOtll"S iu crossing. llilo was reached at 7.30 in the eveuiug, after having spent thirteen hours in the saddle. The photographic plates exposed 011 the rnouutaiu were developed the next day; and -ou Saturday, the 30th, magnetic observations were begun.

608

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
HILO.

The station occupied was on Cocoauut Island, about a mile and a half from the court-house. 'l'his station was chosen because magnetic work bad been done here by othe1· observers. 'rite following is a sketch of the island, showing the location of the magnetic stat.ion and its position with refcrenee to the house near by.
Sketch of Mokuo/ll ( <Jocoanut Island.)

Al1strao/ of 111ar1111·1ic t1UHVl'tali1111s al llilo, llalf'aii.
DI!'. ----- --··-- ---:\c<.:dlc No. Date.
1.

'

:\ccd:e

r-;,,,

I
2.

1· --·----------'· --:\.

S.

Mca11.

N.
I

-·1

I

\

S.
0 -

Mean.
0-- ---

1892. July 30 31 Aug. I

0

!

I

i

39
-

43 39 50

39

03 04 12

39

23 22 31

39

~~ 25

I

39

23 32 15 i

39

18 26 20

·- ··-·-- ---···-

lJECLIN A'l'ION, 1Hl', .A.NI> DITENSITY.

1 ~:::~=1'.··:i '.:~1-~~~:~1- ~~· ~···~1~~~~~'.' i ~:~~~~ ~:: ir I ::; I , 1!! I :n I im ::n
39
0

U S. Coast and Geodetic Survey Report for 193.

Part 11

No. 36,

,..: ..,

z

0

I

"' 5:
UJ

...:
f0

0:

z

<!J

z ;e
0 0

...J

>" <( en
<(

::>

"'
<(

UJ

"' ...J
<( <(

UJ

"'
~

0..

..,
t

.§
0

"' "'
g.
0:

></)

~

-~
"C

~
"C

0

~

~ 0 u
vi

::i

REPORT POU, 1893-PART II.

609

In December, 1878, )tr. C. ,J. Lyons fouml an easterly declination of 70 40' at this same station. A comparison with t~he above would give an annual increase of cast <lecliua.tio11 of three miuutes.
NAPOOPoo, HA w All.

On August 16 I left Houolulu for 1\calakeakua Bay, where Captain Cook Iia<l his observatory in 177n. · Arriving 011the17th, the olJsprvations were begun the followiug clay. ·with the aid of a map mHl Ycrl>al instructions at the Government Survey Ofli<'<.', in Honolulu, I was a hie to fiud the spot occupie<l hy the great navigator, and tl1e magnetic instruments were placed practically in the same locality. (Sec illust1 ations 3G and 31i.) 'l'he followiug sketch (which is only approximately drawn to scale) shows the situation with refereuce to the Heiau:

r

"' c

EJ
1;;;-ofl.
50/1,.

Ag Altar six fl. lug!..,,wi.fkpil in.. cen..l.re JI. ln.ner courl. W.Ul six fi. lugk C ... Pave11ien..L or f'ln<-" :.·tones .D = Fin..c slvn,e~·, one fl. Wwer t}l.fU'?..,. C

6J
'

'

I

'l'he following readings were made at the magnetometer stat1011:
Cook's monument Hciau on Kalacmamo Point Pole on Kamchamdia J-lciau S. Ex. 19, pt 2--39

4
15

12

353 o6
32

610

U. S. COAS'l' AND GEODETIC SURVEY .

.Abstract of 111a911etic results at .NaJIOOJ!oo, Hawaii.
IHI'.
:-Jcedlc No.
1.

Date.

------··--r.;, s. Mean.
0

I

I
N.

Needle No.

2.

! ______ - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - - · · - - - -

1

1-~~~: 2;8
i9 20
Date.

I
I

s.

I

Mean.

0

i

37____ 44_
22

--3~--34 ·1
46 30 .

;7

;~-34 42

37 37 38

oS

56 46

37 36 37

22

37

39
22

57

10

39

I I
~lean

54

I
'

DECLINATION, IHI'. AKI> !:-;TENSITY.
Scale reading[ of nx.is. I Declination least).
·

dip.

llorizo_ntal tnlcns1ty.

r

Magnetic tnomcnt.

-----:---------··
1892. Aug. 18 19 20 21
0 0

9

09·2 10·9 05 ·7
06·6

37

39·0 28·0 40·5

Dyne . 0·3o35 0·3027 0·3011

124·0 124·7 125·3

LAIIAINA, :il'lAUI,

Leaving Napoopoo at 3 p. m., 011 August 22, wo arrivc1l at Lahaina at 7 111. the following- morning·. Observations were mado on the 23d, 24th, and 2·jth. 'fho station chosen was in the court-house yard, as shown in the followiug sketch (approximately):

a:

K E

J( JI

1" B = Court-lwuao.

A :.. . . .:: PoHition of mnguotomotol'. lJ Dill circlo. 0 = l''lng pole.

=

D =Latitude pier 111ul gravity Hlntiou, 188:1.
Readings at A. JH~da11ccfrom A. B = oo Ol' lmark) F ~ 19 00 .... - ...··.······.·..·........ __ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !l~ foot 11= :n 20
<J = 30 63 .··················.··.· _................. _.···.·· !UH IJ= 128 42

"

Jlo-.=313

20 ..·....·····......·................................

Jj"

Anglo nt D hotwoon A 11111! 0 '~ 28° 45' Azimuth of Imo 0 D = :1:16 18 Di·tuuco OD = 448.a ft"'t.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

611

This latitude was determined in 1883 by observations on sixteen pairs of stars, with an average of five observations on each pair. 'l'he result is inserted here in order that the list of Hawaiian latitudes may be complete. As no special report was made on the single latitude determined on Maui in 1883, it has never yet been published. The result is
<p

=

200 52' 22"·8

The following are the results from tlic separatB pain;:
- - - -··--

!

I
I I

,---·- ----1
2 3 4 6 7

No. of pair.

.

l.1ttituclc.

I :\'umber oi I
oliscn·utions. I

0

II

I I
I

5

8
9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16

i

I
I
!

20 52 22-69 24·13 22·82 23·31 24·72 23·34 23·57 22·39 21 'II 21 ·09 22-84 22·25 22·40 22·43 22·33 22·73

4 4

5
5

5
5 6 5 4 4
I

5

7

6 7 7

Al1Btract of magnetic 1·eHuliB at La/iai11a1 Matti.
IHI'.
Needle N'o.

1.

Needle No.
Mean.
0

2.

Dntc.

:-..
1892.
Aug. 23

s.

N.

s.

Mean.
0

-~-24 32 28

i.

0

24 25

39

04 18 20

39

39

I -------llJWLI~A'l'ION,

22 36 30

39

23 34 29

DIP, AND IN'l'E::-O:Sl'l'Y.

Date

1

.--- -!-----1---- 1892,
Aug. 23

·

I

:Seate rending I of nxis. i

Declination (cnst) .
0

)lean dip.

I

d. 28·42

I

24 25

I

9

08·1 09·9 08-8

39

13 ·5 26·0 24·5
--

DJ'"'" 0·2990 0·2980 0·2996

124·9 125-4 124·8

·-------·----~

612

TT. 8. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
WADlEA "A,'~ AT KAUAI.

Ueturn ... g to Honolulu 011 the 27th of August, preparations were made for the occupation of two Rtations on the Island of Kauai. 'l'lle i>teamer left on the 30tl1, and I arrived at \\~aimea on the following day. The instruments were 11ot landed until Septcml'er 1. On the 2d observations were begun. The first station was made 11ear the old Transit of Venus sta1 ion, occupieil by the English party in 1874-, and reoccupied hy myself in 1887 wl1ile determining astronomical latitudes for the II awaiian Government. The following sketch explains distances and bPariugs:
F

I I

/

/ /

13'<::"~~~-<: .......__~-::--/~~--~~~~~~~--~~~

-- -

I
~~

I

.

M

J
.l /\. f, J/ :. l\laguelfr Htati11a. Transit. of Vcnu~ J1i1·r. 'Latitude station, 18fi7,
;\[ark.

I' J: <f . ~ Stcmo wuJl of tl~rract!. Jl ·-=Arrow cut i11 ro('k (Hni<l to lw hy Captain Cook). NS /J E :-= J)r. Camplwll'.."' lwu~e.
BEAHl:-<<;S A:-.:1> l>ISTA;o.;cY.s.

Circle reacling11 at .I . Jl fl·
0 ·12 Jl.o-JIU
(I\)

]Ji11tcou:Cll from,

A.

Ped.
2:: 40
~5

D ·. 178 411
H :-·-. 211

JL.-2;,u
v~.-/\ [, ~- ...

H

-·- --

II (J ·~-. .. · .. 1G·4 Thu mark ht tlic 1m11tlicr11 ~piro of d111rch, 11lio11t. 01w-f'o11rth 111i]o Hnuthwoai of mngnetie station. ),fagnotic hen.ring of mark is Houth ~0° west.

REPORT J?OH. 1893-PART II.
Abstract of 111a91wtic t·esults at Traimea, "A," Kauai.
DIP. .
I

613

Date.

l_____ Nccd~ '.':.~:..'.:
: N.
0

1-----,·-

I

.S.
0

-·- -· I l\lcuu.
0

_J
\

Needle

~o. 2.

X.
o
I
0

I
I

I
I

S.
I

..

1 .. _ ..

Mean.
o
I

I

I

1892. I Sept. 2

I
[

I

I

40 48

39

35
48

3

!

56

I

I' 40

I2
??

40 25 29

I
I
I

llECLl:'<ATIOX, 1>11', AXD INTE:\SlTY.
l>atc.
I

:scale re:~dingl1
· of axis.

Declination
(l'Usti.

I

l\tc~tll

dip.

l1orizm1tal ; )1ag-nctic \ intensity. ' tnOlllCllt. I

I 1892. I Sept. 2

d. 28·58

o
JO

I

03·8
03·2

40 15·5
25·0

0·~886

l>vnr.
79

I
1

'

3

125 ·2 124 ·9

1

I

"'ADI EA ''

H."

As it was feared that local attraction might lmve intluencell the work at the preceding station, a second :-;tatio11 was made at 'l'homycroft. This station was designated as \Vainiea "n," and is situated nearer tl1e sea., on a level piece of laud, with uo rocks in the immediate 11eigllborl1ood. It is on what is known as tho Howell prnperty and is about one·eig-hth of a mile west of the house. 'l'he station is 1 015 feet north and 2 828 feet west of the 'frnusit of Venns pier. 'l'his is ta kcu from a large 1:>cale map made l>y .!\fr. "William Howell, awl is correct within a fow foet. The followiug :>ketch shows the relative positions:

c
E

A ..,, Magnetic St'aJ..i.o~4' B "' End of' B<J-.Se
C"" TelitXJI,(, Hoti.se EFG= WV'e Fence·

Di.st.aA..ces AH ,.J.t,6/t. HF: 9 ,, .AB,,,.657,, B

614

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Abstract of magnetic reaullH at 11'aimca
l>ll'.

"JJ," llauni.

])]·:CLI:-1 ATIOX, DJ I', ANJl lNTENSlTY.
is .. ca I ~re:!< 1· rng I Declination
.

I

Date.

I

of axis.
1

(cast).

Mean dip.

1892. --- ' - Sept.

!

- -- .,

--

.-

-----

-·-·

-- ----·-·

I intensity.
JJ.11u.

llurizontal

Magnetic
lJHlffiCtlt.

·--·

-------· - - - 0·2934 0·2933 0·2926 124·0 124·0 124·0

I

9

42·6 49·: 47·0

40

20·0 22·0 26·0

NONOPAPA, NJIHAU.

It was orig-inally intended to close the season's work w1tn tac stations on Kauai, but as it was necessary to wait several days for the return steamer, the time was utilized by going to Niihau and getting a few observations on this islall(l. It is the most western one of the Hawaiian group, and is rarely visited. Our magnetic observp.tious are undoubtedly the only ones ever ma.de on 'the island, and it was fortunate that the occasion presented itself for even cme day's work. The conditions, however, were not very favorable. During· the entire stay the wind blew violently, wliicli precluded the possibility of determining thll axis of t11c magnet and made an tlte obsei·vatio11s extremely diflicnlt. The station oeeupie1l wa!-; :t'iO feet distant from the large crane at the landing. The direction from the crane to the rnag11etic station was south 18° ea~t.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Abst1·acl of nia911elic results at .Nonopapa, ..:Yiihau.
DIP.

615

-------

-------

- ------·
1,.

·1
Date.
---·· I

Needle No.

I
S.
;
::---

'---;- ·1---;--1~::-1-~.
. ----·
0

Mean.
I

.
0

.
I

------ - · · - - - -

1892. Sept. 9

I

I

!

0

o

i

o

I

41

01

~·~- . os I

40

34

40

35

40

51

I

40

43

DF.CLINA'l'lON, llll', AND INT"NSITY.

Date.

/sca~7 ~~~~~ingi De(~~~~:.ion I
o '

-------------- ····----

~---

Mean clip.

\

lfn~~~~/;~11-( ~~.~';,~.:;:~~
D;,ne. 0·2928

- - - - - --------,---------

_______ J_ _ _ _

1892. Sept. 9

o

I

IO

01·4

40

38·5

I

I

-··--·-

125·4

:llOUNT IIAMIL'l'ON 7 LICK OilSEiiVATORY, CALIFORNIA.

Leaviug Honolulu at noon on September 14, we arrived at San Francisco at 1 p. m on the 21st. Passing the instruments through the custom-house and repairing the air chamber of the pendulum apparatus consumed several days, and on the 2Gth I left for the Lick Obsei·vatory in order to connect this station with the work done outside of the United States. Moreover, this st.ation had been occupied several times for the determination of the force of gravity, both with the long and short pendulums, and it was desirable to check this work as well as to swing the pendulums used in the Hawaiian Islan<ls under exceptionally favorable conditions as regards temperature and clock corrections. Observations were made 011 Septeml>er 28, 2fl, and 30. The work was much facilitated l>y the kirulncss of the director, Professor Holdeu, a separate time correction being made by l\fr. Campbell for our use.

616

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
l'l'l1d11lu11t obnun·alio11H, Jlo1111t Ha,milto11, California.

l ·m

Iclu.: 'en-' 1,.os1-i

I

1--- ·1---··· - --1--~o
Swinrr.

.. of

I Time. of_ ;
ten co1nc1-

S~:ni-arc.

·--

---------·
Manoml"1 Barom- Pressure

'· '
B,

lion.

!
*1 2

'=" [

.

D 1 a c.

Tcm- j
11cra- ' lure. 1

/
· I

.

1

cidcncc . d ...~nc:: 1 · ·· · ,· ·-iintervals.I intcr\'a.ls. ·Initial.I Final.
Sc<'C>Jlds. ,,:,:... I [5·2]1' 3·8

t:o1n-

ctcr.

ctcr.

a o

l

o

c.

ID
lJ
R
j)

1892.

~Cpl. 28

1··
I i

1~1111.
2·7 2·7 2·6 2·1 4·4 2·7

0

3
4

R i
R

5
6

D
B, ])
j)

7
8 9 10
11

28 28 i 28 I 28 [ 28 28

12 26
:?4

26 2::. 6 22 26 16 22
2~

2843·3 2836·3 2838·5 2831 ·2 2836-1 2823·3 2823·6 3185 ·;: 3169'4 3181 ·6 3179·6 3167·2 3175·0 35o9·4 3500·2 3479·0 347()'4 3493 ·4 3492·5

5·2 4·5 4·9 5·0
4 ·1

s·4 s·4

16·15 16·15 16·20 1(i·40 16·60 1675 16·65

c.

I

111111.

1/llll.

'llllll.

119 109 123 124 127 139 I08 134 129 132 137 130 133 130 136 129 130 128 132

653·1 65.r9 654·3 654·0 653'5 653·0 652·0 653·6 654·0 653·8 653·0 652·5 652·5 656·0 656·6 657·0· 657'4 657·6 657·8

502·9 513·1 500·2 498·6 494·9 482·8 511 ·7 491·9 497·0 493·8 488·2 494·4 492·0 501 ·9 496·5 503·3 502·6 504·4 501·1

5 ·1

R R
j)

D
ll3
D lJ R

12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 30 30 30 30 30 30

16 18 18 20 20 18 28 20

s·o

5·0

5·0 5·0

1 ·8 14·62 3·0 I 14·67 2·7 14·72 2·6 14·77 3·0' 14·77 3·0; 14·47

I

R

l.___ _G.

I

4·6 2·4112·56 5·1 2·5 12·66 5·0 2·5 12·81 I 5·0 : 2·6 12·86 5·0 ; 1 ·8 13·06 5·0 i 2·7 12·861

I

i

I

,. Swiu:.; No. l rcjcct1!1l by ubsen·or.

REPORT }'OR 1893-PART II.
Rcductio11 of pe111lu.l11111 obHervat.io11B, 1llo11nt Jlamilto11, Califm·nia.
{Pcrio<lH rrn.lucud to tom11cru.t.11rc 1 15° C.i
JH'OKKUrt,,

617

500inP· at 0° C.; nrc influitoly srnnll; shlereal time.]

P<::riod uncorrected.
.

-

-~t'l"onds .. -

ITcmpcruturc. ! Prcssur~. : Rate. T- -· - ·-- ·- - - --· I--- - - - --- -J

i---·- --- - .--- ----- ·---·-···-· --- -~---- -/
Arc. ·
1

Corrections (111 ~cvcnth decimal place).

!
l 1crjod corrected.
j

I

·

,----Secu11d~~-1

0·500 8808 8829 882 3 8846 8830 8870 8869

-71 ---56 --56 --- 52 ---37 ---16 -51

48 48 50 58 66 13 (i8

- 2 -10 o -j- I 4 + 14 - 9

+

1-247 -j-247 t-217 -j-247 -j-247 -t-241 -j-247

I
1

.

I
1

0·500 8962 9 64 984 978 982 988

1----~
0·500 7861 7900 7870 7875 7906 7886 -·29 -57 -51 --49 -56 -56

+ + +
+

16 14 12
10

10
22

+ + + + -1
1-

6 2 5

9
6
4

-j-246 -j-246 -)-246 -t-246 -j-246 -t-246

0·500 8100 105 082 091 110 104
---~-·---

096 0·500 7134 7153 7196 7202 7167 7168 --42 -{9 ---48 -49 -38 -51

+ t+ ' -r +

-/-JOI

97 91 89
81

-1 3 3 2 3

+

89

··--

I

-j-266 -l-266 -f-266 -f-266 -j-266 -j-266

------486

0·500 7458 470 502 506 473 471

SUMMARY. 8.

Pe11dulu111 B 1 =0·5008976
B~
B:1

= 0·.:iOU8096 = 0·5UOi486

618

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

BAJtOMETltIC DETEHMINA'I'lON OF THE HEIGHTS OF W.AIME.A., KALAIEHA, AND WAJAl:.

:Meteorological observations were made during the month of July as trigonom~trically. A barometer was read at Hilo, near the sea level, on the wi11<lward side of the isla.nd, simultaneously with similar observations at the three stations mentioued above. In achlition to this, l'rof. A. B. Lyons, of Oahu College, made readings at Waimea., from July 18 to July 27, w11ich furnish 10dependent values for the elevations sougllt. 'rhc ol)Servations were made at 9 a. m., 3 p. m., and 9 p. m. At Waimea the Rtation occupied by myself was not identical with that of Professor Lyons, so there is no check on the result fur this place; but by combining the Waimea observations with the continuous ones at Hilo, and with those made on tlle mountain during its oceupa,ney, two very concordant independent va.lues are obtained for Kalaieha. and \Vaiau. Barometer Green No. 3380 was carried to the summit, and No. 3353, also l>y Green, was 'used l>y Profossor Lyons. An intercomparison of all the instruments nsed showed an agreement within one Jrnndredth of a11 i11eh in the readings when nuder the same con<litions. 'l'be station occupied by myself at W aim ea w:is Mr. vV. L. Y rellen burg's house. Professor Lyons observed at tiie "Lyonl'. Mam;ion," which is 1wcsum\\bly abont 50 feet l1igher, At Kala.ieha the readings were made at tl1e northwestern cottage, about 100 feet east of the pendulum station, and approximately on the same level. The barometer was hung in the tent at Waian and was 3 feet higher than the surface of tl10 lake. 'l'lte llilo ohservatious were macle some distance from the sea, antl the elevation of the station is given its 100 feet, although I believe this is only 1m estimated value. 'l'he rednctions were made by moans of the Smithsonian l\foteorological 'rallies (edition of 1893) an<l gave the following results:

a check on the heights determined

1Jiff~TCllCC8
.

of l·ei9hl .
·-··--------- - -· ·--

------- -··------·---·
1

----··--- - -

··-·

---

--

1

Differences n{ height hctwccn--

) , · I Nu111Ucr 1 Probable,' I 1 atc;~ ~{.,~'.>scr- j of. rcncl- , error of ll\~"fcc~;~c

1

-----------------1--·-----·' . . ~:~·-'·-~'.}~,
[

11

I

-- · · - - - -

_w_a_ia_u_an_c_l_w._a_im-ca-(L-)---~--2_1_t_o_2_5-'-_1_2__....:..__2_1_

Wnimea (V) and Hilo Waimea (L) ancl Hilo Kalait:ha and Hilo Waiau and Hilo Kalaieha am\ Waimca (L)

July 7 to 18 to 13 to 21 to 18:md

11 25 18 25 27

II

3

l'

13 18 14 4

5
18 23 13
1

L~055~-

I

2632 2672 6700 3233 4033

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

619

From the above table we derive the elevations above .Hilo as follows:
-·-·-------··--

------· ----

I ,---

Station,

__i

;

Observer, A. 11. Lyons.

i~· D. Prcsto_n~_I _______ _
Feet. Feet.
I

I

Observer,

i

Mean.

Kalaieha Waiau

6700 I 3233

6702 3231

The triangulation made by Professor Alexander (based on the elevation of 1\fauna K~a primary trigouometrical station) gave the following results:
l·"eet.

Mauna Kea l·Y & (abov-0 mean tide from previou:,; tria11gulatio11) 13760·0 " " 2·Y & (by leveling from above) 13804·6 Summit Peak A 13810·0

= Polialm

"

B

13646·5 13408·6 13041·4 13040 1317lH 12!l96·5 6713·6 11513

Waiau astronomical station " Lake " crater 8 (011 out.er l>a11k of crater) Lilinoe Kalaieha latitude station Keonehehee

620

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The following tables give a summary of the results for the entire season's work:·
Abstract of nwgnetic declhiation obHerratim1H.
Scale rcrling
0

11 Magnetic Ill
.

Station.

Date.

ne~ic

rn_ag· declination.

I

Station.

axis.
- - - - - - - - · - - - -··--· . I

[ 1

1891-'92. d. Waikiki,Oahu Aug. I I 28·72 12 28·80

Kahuku,Oahu

13 Mean 28~!~ ~·~=~5,·2_ , Nov. 25 ___ __ IO 16·4* Hilo, Hawaii 26 29·34 13·0 I: 27 -=-:.=__ __ _1~,J

~--~11
1

IO 05 ·3 04·9

I

i

i1

Wai:iu (summitof Mauna Kea)

1892. July 21 22 24 Mean July 30 31 Ang. I 2 Mean

d.

0

30·02 29·24
--·--

IO 21'0

1

29·63
. ·..

---10 22·7 8 26·1* 25'3 18·9 19·4 8 22·4 9 09·2 IO'') 05·7 o6·6
9 08·1
--

24·4

- =:=:......:....:=..=::= .

29·00 28·76 28·88 28·30 28·38 28·34
-----

Honolulu

Jun:ea~ ~:~;:.,~;~ ;;~~111
4 29·00 I6·7

- -- -----·

Kawaihae, Hawaii

Jul~ean ~:~: }:---;~'.~
2 3 Mean July 28·88 ----29·03 20·5 . 22·5 --9 2;;:6

I

11

I

Napoopoo, Aug. 18 Haw a ii 19 20 (Captain Cook's sta2I tion, 1779) . Mean Lahaina, Ha-1 Aug. 23 24 waii (De 'I Frcycinet' s 25 station 1819)

II

---

\\'aimea, Hawaii (west base) Waimea, Hawaii (Lyons 1872)

8
9
II

:I ~c~~~-~- =s5~:~ =I[ I'

9 oS·I* 09·9

28·42 28·42 28·58 28·58

08·8~

=~·='·_IJ
---- 9 03·0

11'

Waimea A, Kauai

I Sept.
I

I

Mean
2

9 08·9
IO 03·8 03·2
IO

~-~---04~1

Mean Kalaieha, Hawaii'

July 14 29·o6-- 9 -53·1 I 15 ~~-~:52·1 Mean 29·06 ,952:6-!

.:__::__:_-_ -_?_03~-~J
I
I· ;!

3 Mean Sept. 5 6 7 Mean
9

03·5 49·2 47·0'

Waimea ll, Kauai

9 42·6
·-------·-·

I
1

9 46·3
IO

Nonopapa,Ni- . Sept. ihan

OI'4

- - - - - ' - - - .. --· ........

------------·-'---~---·Only a. m. or p. m. observations.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAR'l' II.
Abstract of 1·cs1ilts of magnetic dip olist:rvations.

621

---,-~:.. -T- -rn, br-~:,11-c N~:· ,,,

Station.

.

----[
Waikiki, Oahu Kahuku, Oahu Honolulu Kawaihae, Hawaii \Vaimea (west base), Hawaii Waimca (Lyons' 72), Hawaii Waimea (Lyons '72), Hawaii Kalaieha, Hawaii Waiau (summit of Mauna Kea) Hilo, Hawaii Napoopoo, Hawaii (Captain Cook's station, 1779) Lahaina, Mam (De Freycinet's station, 1819) Waimea A, Kauai Waimea B, Kauai Nonopapa, Niihau

,

1

N.
1

S.

,------

·-:
0

1891-'92. Aug. II 12 13 Nov. 25 26 27 June 2 3 4 July I 2 3 s
9

0

I

I

I

1

-!~--- ~h~-::,:-;o-.-.-.-I
0

N'.-S., Mean.
I

N.
I

[

S.

------

I

0

I

----0 I I I 0 I
56 06 58 27 27 25 48 40 49 IO 10 14 28 24 23 38 50 4I 50 38 28 3I 42 39 18 26 20 37 39 34 42 39 23 34 29 40 19 28 40 20 28 28 40 43

1

N.-S. :llean .

40 08 139 29'-f-39 14 1 28 -1-46 20· 28 +52 42 01 41 01 -t-60 41 34 05 -t-29 41 07 -\-3-i 41 02 40 IO -j-5'.l 40·55 I3 T42 4I 10 221-1-48 38 32 37 46 J-46 42 481-j-54 37 41 -t-56 39 32 38 15 ;+11 38 38 04

I-~- 34 .
!

39 48 5I 54 4I 3I 20 24 40 36 34 46 38 09 15 09 38 54 21 44

39 40 39 41

514002 --II 39 10 01 + 9 40 50 06 -I6 39 34 4I 20 -t-I4 4I 26 28 -- 2 12 38 --261 40 42 40 54 --I2 40 34 46-12 46 52 - 6 38 04 38 15 - I I 38 05 14 -- 9 13 16 ·- 3 38 30 38 2s s 38

[+
1

I

20

29 ;- 9 28 --10 38 50.1 0 43 - 4 46 + 7 38 I4 -f-28 38 -14 42-I 39 23 - 9 32 ·-12 15 [+10 37 34 -t-10 46 --24 30 -t-24 39 22 2 36 - 4 30-2 40 25 -12 29 - I 40 16 -f- 8 34 -12 20 +16 40 51 --I6

I

II

55

341-\-21
1

18 50 39 53 42 24 4I I4 20 25 44 22 54 24 32 28 I3 28 24 22 36 35

14 39 12 38 23 1-\49 38 48 ,138 I5 09 34 -t-35 52 I6 I4 19 --t-55 46 2I 39 00 38 09 -t-SI 38 34 38 22 38 57 I3 -t-44 35 23 54 I7-f-37 36 30 39 43 39 03 -t-40 39 23 39 31 39 04 -t-35 22 Aug. I 50 I2 +38 31 18 37 56 37 22 -t-34 37 39 37 19 46 36 57 -t-49 22 20 39 38 08 3 1 10 +s8 23 39 43 38 24 -t-79 39 04 39 49 -t-59 18 24 48 25 50 51-f-59 20 Sept. 2140 48 39 35 -t-73 40 12 40 3 56 48 -t-68 22 1 5 140 45 39 54 -f- 5 I 40 20 40 6 36 55 -t-41 16 24 7 44 40 04 -t-40 9 141 01 40 08 -t-53 40 34 40

I

+

622

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Summary of 11ia911elio dip.
Nccdlcsl ·-·. I . Dip.

Station.

Date. /

/i

--·---·---;----·· --··- ,---11-·----- ---- ___,____ ,
Waikiki,Oahu 1891-'92. Aug. 11 12 13
J\'ov. 25 26 27

II

Station.

Date.

INeedles I ·-·.

Dip.

1892. I 0 I July 21 8 I 39 52·0 ! Waiau (sum· 22 ·-15 I 58·5 I mit of Mauna Kea) . 23 - 4 I56·0 i
····

0

I
i

-t-4 -6

+

6

38 31 ·o 33·0 39·o 38 34·3

:\lean! 39 55 ·5 Kahuku,Oahu
4 I 41

Mean 30 31 Aug.
I

-;_9-.~-·
23·5 24·5
1·

Hilo, Hawaii

+

5

~39 2;~5
24·0 25·5

-

7
I

I
'

- 4 -j-11

Mean \-41-25_'7-_ Honolulu June
2

3
4

-12 ·- 6 [ · · 3, Mean

4;-:;;~ \ Napoopoo,
37·0 [ 47·5 , 38 og.5 12·5

Mean! 39 23·3 18 19 20 o _ 12 -18 Mean

_4·-;;.-~--4_2·····2 -_ [ ~~~:< :1 ;~)- I

Hawaii (Cap,tai11

1.
1

37 39.0 28·o 40·5 37 35·8

Kawaihac, Hawaii

July
2

+
-

I

3
'Vaimea (west base) Waimca (Lyons, '72) Waimea (Lyons, '72) Kalaieha, Hawaii 8 9 11

5 5
26 3

Mean

311··

u·5
1-;-:;·

Lahaina,Maui I I (De Freycinct's ~tation,1819)

!

i
i

+
-

"~~~~~~ 0~1
38 22·51\ 33·5

-·"~-=

23 39 IJ'S 26·0 24 --16 2 25 \ - 9 _ _ ~2._. :\lean 39 21·3

I

19

Waimea A, i Sept. 2 Kauai 3

-

7 6

40 -·15-:5 25·0 40 2;;;_-

+21

14 15 16

~ea~1 ~: :~::-1
+11 46·5 4 4 _ _ ~.~. 38 47·8

I I Waimca
Kauai

:\ican

B,

~ ~-=I: ~:~
Mean 40 22'7 9 9

5

o 1-4;-;o:;-

I

~-----~-------~-e:

i ___ ~11ha~--l _____ J_____ I -----·

No,~.opapa,

~4° -3S:S-

H.EPOR'l' FOR 1893-PAR'f II.
Abstl'act of magnetic hm·i;:ontal i11tc11Bit!J oliservatin11s.

623

Station.

D ate.

zot nt5 mo111cnt=ml' I lt1 en t- ofintensl~'
jty=fl

Hor~-1 1 ~a~~~tic

\-.- - - - Sta.Hon.

I
,
1

JI

I---··

Waikiki,Qahu ! Aug. I 1 ·2979 12 , · 71

1 ~891-'92. I~ - - - - 1-:------------1
I
129·8 9·6

(C. G.S.· magnet.(.. t ) G. S, umts).

''

'

Date.

l(C.
I

Magnetic . sia ·motllcnl=nt \mtcn: ·t ofintcnsitv ty=lf· C G 5 , magnet.( . ui;it~).' G. S, umts).!

:~~~~-1 i

1892.

I

Waiau (sulll- July 22 mitof;\fauna: 23 Kea)

i 3 -- _-2..:_ -9·4 [1 Mean ~2981_\-,~129~6 _'[

~

Me~n
July 30 31

23

·-·~9_,55~00.
·3064 64

·2950 501· --

123·5 3·1

1~43··6'
127·0

Kahuku,Oahul No,·. 25
I 26

1

~~

·2932 1 31 I

129·3
8·6

! Hilo, Hawaii

1~

Honolulu

Mean June 2

I ·.2?~"-:

J~ J
1287 127·9 7·9 7 ·9 127·9 129·4 8·2 7·8 128·5

I

Au:~eai: ·30!~ --1~~~--\
20

7'5

.J

3

4 Mean
Kawaihae, Hawaii July
2

·2954 47 51 ·2951 ·3001 25 '
JO

Napoopoo, i 11 aw a ii I' (Captain 11 Cook's station, 1779)

Aug. 18 19

·3035 - --12 27 II 5·3

!:~

I

· !.

Mean Lahaina, Maui Aug. (De Frey24 cinet's sta25 tion, 1819)
A,

··3024 -1~080 96 5 ·4 4 ·8

231 ·;-99~=1- 124 :9~
I
,
1

3 '.\1ean Waimea (west July base) ; (Lyons, '72) I Hawaii (Lyons, '72)

·301z'
J

8

·~966:

·;;g.~--

9I :z-;;s-!~-;;9:_,-- -11 Waimca Kauai
11 I

Se::.ea: 3 Mean Sept. 5 6

l~:t~f-~-~:~;;;cc
79 4 ·9

Menn
Kalaichn, Hawaii July 14 15 .'.\lean

86 [ 8·4 I! :2982 --;-~8-.-s- -:l \\'nimea B, Kn.uai 1 ·2949 ' 58 - 8·~--11 ' ·2954 [ 128·3 ! N onopnpa, Niihau

!

·2-~8~- ·=~ ~-5 ~~-·29341 33
26 I

I
1

l==;'~s·.s · I:

7
Mean Sept. 9

124·0 4 ·o 4·0
I!

'2?3_1 ·2928

~'~-1--~~
125 '4

624

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
Recapitulation of 1·esults of magnetit: obsei·vations.
Latitude Longftudc (west of (north). Greenwich).
0

Station.

Date,
1891-'92.

DeclinaTotal intion (east). horizon. intensity. tensity.
0

Dib~~'~ndl ~~~~I
0

I

0

I

I

I

Waikiki, Oahu Kahuku, Oahu Honolulu Kawaihae, Hawaii Waimea (west base) Waimea (Lyons, '72), Hawaii Kalaieha, Hawaii Waiau (summit ofMaunaKea) Hilo, Hawaii Napoopoo, Hawaii Lahaina, Maui WaimeaA, Kauai Waimea B, Kauai Nonopapa, Niihau

21 21 21 20

16·4 42·6 18·0 02·4

157 157 157 155

49·7 Aug. 11-13 51"7 Nov.25-27 51 ·5 June 2-4 I-3 47·6 July 8 9-11

05·2 IO 14·7 IO 16·3 9 20·6
IO

39 55 4I 25·7 40 42·2 38 II '2

·s

Dyne. 0·2981 0·2938 0·2951 0·3012
0·29~6

Dyne. 0·3887 0·39Io 0·3892 0·3832
0·3799 0·3809 0·3790 0·376I 0·3962 0·3819 0·3865 0·3753 0·3848 0·3859

20 02·1

155 37·9

8 50·0 38 4I ·o

20 02·0 155 37·0 19 42·6 155 25·9 19 49·2 155 26·8

9 03·6 38 28·0 0·2982

14-I6 9 52·6 38 47 ·8 0·2954 21-25 IO 22 '7 38 34·3 0·2950 8 22·4 39 23·3 0·3062 9 08·1 37 35 ·8 0·3024 9 08·9 03·5 9 46·3 IO OI ·4
IO

19 44·0 155 04·0 30-Aug. 2 19 29·0 155 59·0 Aug. 18--21 20 21 21 21 52·0 57·0 57 ·2 55 ·o 156 159 159 160 40·9 '23-25 42·0 Sept. 2-3 42·4 5-7 13·0 9

39 40 40 40

20·8 20·2 22·7 38·5

0·2989 0·2882 0·2931 0·2928

I
That of Nonopapa is uncertain.

The geogiaphical positions are given only approximately.

The localities, geographical positions, and elevations of the gravity stations in order of their latitude are as follows:
Station. Locality.
I
I
I

Latitude.
<p (+)
0

Longitude. Elevation. Elevation.

I

I/

0

ii. (+)
/

I/

Metres.
IO

Washington Washington Mount Hamilton Honolulu Waikiki Kawaihae Manna Kea Kalaieha

Smithsonian Institut ion C. and G. Survey Office Lick Observatory Kapuaiwa Building J. F. Brown's S. Parker's Waiau Humuula

38 53 20 38 53 I3 37 2I 21 20 19 I9 20 18 16 02 49 42 25 03 25 25
II

77 01 35
77 121 157 157 155 155 I55
00

Feet. 34

31

I4 1282 6 3 2 398I 2030

45 4205 20 IO 8 13060 6660

-

32

38 35 51 46 50 OI 49 36 28 48 27 53

-----

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

625

The following tables give a summary of results for each pendulum and the comparative force of gravity for each station:
S1mtnia1·y of reB11ltB. [Periods reduced tu temperature, 15° C.; prossuro, 500m·· ut oo C.; infinitely small arc; shloronl time.]
Pendulums.

/ Differences (in seventh decimal . piaGC),

Station.
H,

11.

I

II,

B 1-H 2

lit-Ba

111-n,

·--Seconds.

Seconds.

Seconds.

Washington* Waikiki 91 )t Waikiki '92):j: Honolulu Kawaihac Kalaieha Waiau Mount Hamilton Waohington 11

f

0·500 7828 I 0871 I 0823 I 0797 I I 157 I 1946 I 3050 0 8976 0 7794

0·500 6962 l 0015 0 9998 0 9920 I 0287 I 1067 I 2264 0 8096 0 6950

6325 I 0·500 0 9377 0 9330 0 9320 0 9622 I 0451 I 1457 0 7486 0 6313
~Coast

+866 +856 +825 +877 +870 +879 +186 +880 +844

+637 +638 +668 +600 +665 +616 +807 +610 +637

+1503 +1494 +1493 +1477 +1535 +1495 + 1593 +1490 +1481

---·--- -·-----1.... -- ··-·----·------------""Smithsonian Institution, 1891. t Junc 26, 27, and 28 1 1891.

. -!June 3,4,und 5, 1892.

und Geodetic Survey Office, 1892.

Station.

Mean period.
Seconds.

Relative periods

·

IRelatl\·e force of I Absolute .force granty. of gravity.
Dynes.

Washington* Waikiki 91~ Waikiki '92 Honolulu Kawaihae Kalaieha Waiau Mount Hamilton

f

0·500 7026 0·501 0088 0·501 0050 0·501 ·.>012 0·501 0355 0·501 1155 0·501 2257 0·500 8186

I '000 000 I ·ooo 612 1·000 6o4 1·000 596 1'000 665 I '000 825 I '001 045 1 ·ooo 232

'000 0·998 0·998 0·998 0·998 0·998 0·997 0·999
I

000 776 792 808 670 350 909 536

980·100 978·902 978·917 978·933 978·798 978·485 978·055 979·646

·Corrected for wear.

The pendulum observations made on the Island of Hawaii enable us to calculate tho mean density of l\fauna Kea from an assumed value for the earth's mean density; or, accepting a density of the mountain derived from a study of the rocks, we may reverse the problem aud obtain a value of the mean density of the earth. Au attempt will now be made to utilize the preceding results in both of these ways.
'.l'HE DENSITY OF :i\1AUNA KEA AN'D '.l'HE MEAN DENSI'.l'Y OF '.l.'IIE EAlt'l'H.

The formula usually employed in the t'reatment of the change of' the fore~ of gravity with elevatiou is:

~: = - 2 ~ ( 1 -

i ~-)

(1)

whore fl =the force of gravity at tho sea level, h = the elevatiou, ·r = the radius of the earth,· o =the density of' tho mom1taiu or table-lu,ud, and 6 = tho mean density of the eartu.
S. Ex. 19, pt 2-40

62G

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

']'his formula is <lerivcd by combiuiug the earth attraction, varyiug inversely as the square of' the distanee, with the attraction of the mat· tei· I.Ying between the sea level and the upper station. Ccrtniu snppositio11s arc made in regard to the form of this exterior matter a11<l it has been generally co11sidered a sufficient approxi1rn1tio11 to regard all the matter as equivalent to that contai111~d in a plain of infinite extent and of a thickucss e<prnl to tl1e clc\'ation (h). Whethei· this suppositiou is admissible depends, of course, on the rclatilm between vertical and horizontal dimensions of the i11te1Te11i11g- mass. Jf we suppose this to be of a conical form, the above term tl!'pendiug 011 the attraction of the plain must receive the correetion

+ .J- !': v h~ +

Jr\'

h

lt 2

where (tt) is the ratlins of the base. '.l'his expression reduces fo iwro for an infiuite value of (a) in which we lmve the prc\'ious case of an inlinite plain. For('(,= 11 the entirn effect of the inlm·ve11ing matter disapJH~ars, as it i;honld tlo in t.lw formula. The expresi:;io11 f(n· the !lilfore11tfal or gravity at the Sllllllllit of a couical rnountaiu woul<l therefore be:
d!f

= - -r

2h

( :i c) !J _ 1 - 4 '[>
l :~ ... 46

+ 4 6 v 1i2 +~i
h
46

;~ r)

)

(2)

=- 2 -rh ·''l (

a +a - a cos /'J )

where (/J) is the semivertical angle of the mountai11. \Vhe11 (<i) is very large, compared with (h), the correction for a paraboloi<l is ~ mul that for a i;;pltere is 2 that given above."' Since from the nature of the case
(It) is always smaller than (a), the qua11tity

--:.;i}+ ai is 11cvcr ec1mtl to

u11ity, and tl1e total effect of the last two ter111R must be essc11tially positiv(', and we have a greater value fo1· grnvity in the cai,;e of tlie cylinder than for tlrn varaboloid, and a greater one for the paral>oloiJ

than for the cone. 111 the ligme, grnvity at ( (i) won Id be dimi11isbed by passing to (f') (if no i11terve1ii11g matter existe<l) by
2h - r-- . ''l
#

=

. . correct10n for distance.

Jlclmort, p. 172, II Theil.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAHT II.

627

If we iuter}lose the i11fi11ite plain (a, b o d), gravity at (P) will be iucreased 1'y 2h 3 0 -r - {} .{ LS:= correction for plain.

Since ( 6) is always less than ( 6 ), the combined effoct of these two terms will 1'e essentially ucg·ative. 'l'he difference between the effects of the plaiu and the cone is sccu in the last term, and the total influence exerted by matter equal in volume and position to that generated by 'the revolntiou of the trapezoid (a. 1' s ~l) arouud (P <J) would be: 2h 3 0

-

r fl 4 6

v ,~2 -a:i

h

+

Since (a) hi always very much greater than (h ), the expression
-:-r,-.;h , .; is a small fraction, and the coml>i11ed effect of tlw last two · · terms will be of the imme sign as tho first ouo of them; that is, their effoct will he m;seutially positive. This is as it should l>e, and shows that the effect of this matter is to incl'Case g-m\'it.y at (1'), wherea8 the effect of the 1irst two terms wonl1l 11ecessarily be to dirni11ish gravity at the same poi11t, exce}lt in the extraordinary case where the infinite plai11 should lie one-third as lieavy again as the average earth matter. A uniform density of 7·56 in au infinite plain immediately urnler the station would exactly cou11terbala11ce the diminution of gravity on account of distance. The 11egative sign attributed to the last term must not be interpreted as meaning that the actual effect of this matter is to diminish the value of gravity at (J>). It rather means that, the general effect of the plain being to i11creasH gravity at ( P), the influence of (a J> s d) comes in here as expressing the difference between the effects of the plain a111l cone, and tliat the plaiu effect must be dimin3 0 · J1eu .1 by ·· I 11 1ac " t , tiw h · oruer ·1 is Ill to get t Jte cone eliect. - -· . / ·---··1 6 v h2 a2
v~+w

+

parenthetical part of the actual plai11 effect being
. of the volume (a P s .d) bemg 3 --· o ---·- h +·-~"4 6 ..; 1i2 + ai'

+ ~ ~,

aud that

0 - --· +3 4 6
in (2).

h ~-=--4 6 ·./ Ji2 (£2' For a mountain 2·5 miles high and having

3 - -0 -

+

. d"f" t I1cn· 1 1erenee or ' . gives the actua1 e fl'ect " 1or tl , ie co11e as expresserl
it

radius of base

. equal to 30 nnles

1 1 t '1 Ji 2It . ~F (ii= 12 (nearly); so t 1a

i

"t mak es an essent1a . 1

difference whether we treat the mountain matter as a cone or as a plain. Jn this ease the effect is changed by its one-twelfth part. dg 2h ( 3 o\ r The formula g · = - ·i _ 1 - 4 ·;:; ) has long been known as Young's Hule, although it first appeared in 174!), in Bouguer's work, "La Figure

628

U. S. COAST .AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

<le la Terre." He makes the assumption that 6 = 2 o, from which the total diminution of gravity on account of distance and mass would be 5h 4 :,~· This correction bas continually been applied iu the treat.me11t of mountains and table-lands uy most moclern observers. There bas been some question whether this formula is tlte proper one to use, or whether, indeed, a11y correction at all should be made for co11tine11tal attraction. It has been assumed that the whole cone of matte1· (P st) might be brought <lowu by compression to the line (cl c) witltout materially alter· ing the shape of the sea level. That h; to say, that the vertical attraction at the point (I') before compression is approximately equal to that after compression. lu other wonls, the intcrve11i11g matter lias 110 effect. This assumption has cvi<le11tly been made in view of the earlier measurements of the force of gravity, wl1ich seemed to show a very small density for mountaim;. 'l'wo notable cases of this are, first, the Andes,* which appear to be not much heavier than ice, and the Island of Ascension, where tlie ousen'ed force of gravity at tlw sea level was actually Jess thau that at the summit of Greeu Mountain, t indicating that the downward attraction of all the matter above the sea level was insig11ifi.cant. 'J'hef\c remarkable results liiwe not always been confirmed IJy later observers, and receut work calls for a different interpretation of the effect of this matter. 'fhe co11dernmtion theory proposed IJy Professor Helmert, in ltis "Die Mathematischen und pl1ysikalisclte11 'fheorieen der hohereu Geodlisie," makes it possi'ble to treat pendulum observations in a way more consist<mt with the results of modern ouservatious, and by so doing to derive a much more trnstworthy value for the earth's ellipticity. .Just how particular forms modify the density deduced for the mass lying between the sea level and the upper station is shown by the following table, which has been calculated for Kalaieha, at an elevation of (i GGO feet. 'l'he mean density of' tho earth is assume1l as ;)·u7. 'l'he diminution of gravity in passing from' Kawaihae (elevation 8 feet) to Kalaieha is 0·000 320 g (g being the value at the sea leYel) .
.

--

··-·----------------------------------

·La Figuro de la Terre, par '.IL Bong11er, l'uriH, l 7·W, p. 362. I l\Iemoir:; Royal A~tronomicul Society, Vol. vu, p. GO.

REPORT FOR 1893-PAHT II.
Radius of base in miles.

629

Figure.

IO
--··---

15

20

I

25

30

_.:.....___ _ _ _____..!... _ _ _ _ _ ~----

Cone Spherical segment
C~·lindcr

..-~i--G.·~~---1
3·75
_ _ l______ 1

Density .

Infiuitc plain

~~1~~:~~~~i~~
3·75 ' 3·75 .n5

1

;:~---1--i~i·--1·--~~g~i
3·75
·-------------·------- - - - -

---·----------

Differences for varying r:ulius.

Cone Spher;cal segment Cylin<?er
lnlinite plain

0·20

0:10

0·12 0·09 o·oo
Difference~

0·06 0·05 o·oo

0·04 0·04 0·02 o·oo

0·04
0·02

0·01

o·oo

from cone, for

\'aryin~ ti~~urc.

: ----------~'-----!C:.ine Sphcricnl segment c:ylindcr
Infinite plain
!

0·20

I
.1·

0·09 0·26

0·12 0·06 0·17

0·08 0·05 0·12

0·08
0·03
0·10

0·06
0·02
0·09

It is seen that beyond 30 miles tho effect of an increai;;c in the rndiuR is comparatively im;ignificant, an<l that any poi;;siblo change in the form of tl1e matter after thiH limit is reachecl can not essentially modify the resulting den8ity. The cone and the infinite plain being the extreme cases between which all other forms fall, it is worth while to compare these two in 1.heir effect on tho force of g-ravity for the particular case under consideration. 'l'he elevation of the pendulrim station at Waiau, near the summit of )fauna Kea, iH 13 OGO feet. The mountain is geuernlly gradual in itR ascent, ancl if we aRsnme 30 miles as the raclius of h 2··173 1 the base, we have li = ·-;J(f- = 0·0824 = 12 ·

·without stopping to inquire for the present whether Young's RuJc gives a density for the mon11tai11 which is ahsolntcly correct, for the Rake of comparing J\fauua Kea with other mountains a rigorous formula is perhaps not necessary. If we co11Rider the matter lying between Waiau and the sea level as an infinite plain, as has llcm1 done in other cases, we arrive at the equation: 0 = 0·536 6 Taking the matter aR n. cone of height 2·4 7 miles and rn<lius of baHo 30 miks, we get: o = Ml84 6

630

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Assuming 6 = 5·58 (HarknesR), we have for infinite plain for cone

o=

o = 2·99
3·26

Either of these values is much greater than has usually been found for other mountains, and the latter one is greater than any of the rocks found on the surface.. An extensive collection of these rocks was made at different elevations, beginning at Kawaihae, on the leeward side, passing to the summit, and finally ending at Hilo, on the windward side. In all, 26 specimens were obtained. '.l'hey have been carefully studied by Prof. George P. Merrill, curator of lithology at t.he Smithsonian Institution, who bas kindly furnished the following descriptiou. The points from which they were obtained are irulieated in illustration No. 31. Only 18 determinations of specific gravity wer·e made, as this number of specimens seemed to include all the distinct types in the collection.
DY.:SCIUPTION OF SPECJ:\IF.XS.

As wns tho en.so with s~.mploR suhmittod hy yon in 1888, · and as was to llo expected from papers hy ]Jana and others t on tho rockH of thcHo islmuls, tho samploR aro nil basalticlo.vas, differing ouly in dogrcos of crystallization, com1rnct111lH8, an cl tho amount of decomposition t.hey havo m11lergo110 since th<lir cxtrnHio11. Thn CHHont.ial constituenti:. of. all theso rocks aro baHic plagioclaso fohl8p:irs, :wgitcR, oliviUtJR, nn<l grains of magnetic iron, together with Rpom<lic microscopic apatitc8, titauic iron, iron pyrites, and the varionH incipiont form!! of crystnlliza.tion to which tho couvoniont name oftrichites may be appliod. A residual glaBH, (ltrn to imperfect. crystallization, is to bo obsorvod in greater or lesR abnntlauco in nearly all cnReR. Tho microscopic chaructorietics of these _rocks and their constitnent minernl~ havo bcou so well described hy the ahove-mont.ioncd writor that Iittlo remaiuR to ho clono lwre hut to call attention to such of their pocnlinritioR as have :i <liroct huaring upon tho Ruhjoct in hand. ·An Rtages of cryRtallization aro to bo found in tho Rample8 suhmittcd, from thoso coneiRting nlmoRt wholly of glnsR (spocimeus D an<l 13), through forms carrying sharply 1nigular or lleautifnlly deudritic crystallizatiouB of fol'111par, augite, and olivino in a glassy baso (spocimcn 14), to tl101;0 almost wholly crystallino, oxhihiting ouly hero and tbero small interstitial nreaR of moro or less dovitrifiod glass (specimens 1, 2, 18, 23, etc.). A liko variation is fomul in other physical propertinR, samples from varions sourco8 showing all gradations from highly vosiculnr (pumiceonR)_ forms (spocimous No. 7, 11, 13, 28, 31, 33), so light in some caseR as to almost float on water, to compact glassy or crystalline vnriotios showing in tho mass n spocilic gravity as high as 3·08 (specimen 2). Tho following notos on u few characteristic specimens will serve to show tho gonoral churnctor of thu rockR. Tho spucific gravities given woro mado upon powclore<l muterial in picnomotcr flnskR: No. 1. A dark Uluo-gray rock, weathering brownisl1, only slightly vesicular, and Rl1owing no crystallino BP-crotions sufficiently clovolopod to lrn visible tn tho unnidml eyo. In the thin section it shows nn abunclnnce of lath-shnpocl plagioclnRos, thickly crowded togothor; numerous imperfectly outlined black and opa'J.UO areas, assumed to he altorod nngitos, and an occasional yollowish-r0<i, haclly altorerl oli\·ino. The ground mass is full of black opa<1no mnttor and brownish decomposition products. Specific gravity, 2·82.

-----------------

--------

· Soe App. 14th R!lpt. U. S. CoaHt arnl Gooclotic Survey for 1888, p. 1>2fl. tSoe Characteristics of Volcanoes, by J. D. Dana, pp. :118-354.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.

631

No. !l. A compact clnrk-grny rock, with occasional ~mall nsiclcsuntl showingpb.enocrysts of feldspar nllll occnsionnlly angito of 1mch size ns to bo visible t.o the naked oyo. Jn tho th in section a buuclau t busaltic augi tcs in irrogulnr granular forms, interspersed with lath-shapc<l plugioclascs, form tho chief churucteristics. There is the usual sprinkling of granules of iron ore, nnd an occasional rather small, rounded blab of olivine. Tho nugitos and plagioclascs oceur in crystals of two generations. The amount of interstitial glass is proportionally Arnall. Specific gravity, 3·08. No. u. A clark-gray vesicular rock, weathering brownish, and containing a. comparatively large amount of iron p~·rito. In the sect.ion a 1lense base of iron ores ancl small augites and plagioclases, with an ab11111lant sprinkling of augitn, olivine, and plagioclnso phonocrysts. Speciflc gravity, !Ml. No. 7. A finely vesicular, almost pumiceons, nearly black rock, without macroscovic constitnents. In the section a dense aml very opaque, partially dovitrifi11d, gln~sy base, carrying scattering phcnocryAt.H of plagioclase, o)i\·ine, und ungite. No. 9. A finely vesicular, nearly black ro<'lc, with only on occa;lional 1-,rrain ofp~Tito recognizahle by the unaided eye. Unrlor tho microscope like 7, bnt with only foldspar phenocryAts. Specific gr:wity, 2·7!!. 'No. 10. A compnct, finely YPsicnlar, nearly black rock, without nuwroRcopic constit1rnnts. U111lcr the microscope n douse, almost opaqne ground mass, crowded full of grannies of iron oro and lath-Hhapcd plagioclases. Neither augitcs nor olivines seen in the single suction exami11e11. Specific gravity, 2·7n. No. 12. A dnrk-grny, nearly black, flnely vesicular rock, without macroscopic constituents. Under tho micrrniPope showA only small fol1ls1iar 111icrolites in u ground mass consisting of dark, smoky, brown glasA mul innumPrnble bluck opaque granules of iron ore. Between crossed nicolB nro seen occuAionul brilliantly polarizing particles, evidently olivine ond augite, but too Arnall and imperfoct for nbsolute determination. No. H. In macro11copic character11 like tho lost, but a trifle more vesicular, nnd with moro vitreons luster; weathers brown. Under tho microscope a y11llow. brown glass, thickly stnd<lPd with clear, colorless, sharply outlined plagiocluses, oliviues, nnd iron oxillcs. Specific gravity, 2·73. No. 16. A compact, dark blue-gray rock, without macroscopic conAtitnonts, and showing in tho snctions nuder u power of 180 diameters a ''ery don so ground m1111s in the form of a micrograunlar aggrcgato of minute graim1 of magnetic iron and nearly colorless silicates, hearing rarely greatly clougate<l plagioclases. Tho iron ore i11 ao prominent a constituent that llieces of O·o:l gram weight woro taken up hy au ordi· nary horseshoe magnet. A rough analysis yieldedSiO, Al,0 3 and Fe,03
40·02 32·80 10·20

Cao
MgO

K,O Na.,O (liy difli:rcncc)

Spocific grnvlt~· in bnlk, 2·!J!l; in poW1ler, 3·02. No. 17. Dark gray, ncnrly bltwk, coarsoly vcsicnlar, with a few macroscopic olivines. In tho section a hlack, smoky glaHH, full of il'on ores aiul hnaring ahuuclnnt plagioelases in all stnges of de\·olopmcnt and moro rarely oliviueA. Specific gravity, 2·78. No. 18. Com})ltct, <lurk gray, with only nu occasional sm:ill cleavago foce of a feldspar sufficiently devclopo1l for dcterminntion by th11 nnait!Pd o~'<l. l:ll(lor tho microscope a norninl basalt, almost l10loc1·ystalline. Specillc gmvity, 2·83.

632

U. 8. COAST AND GEODETic SURVEY.

No. 19. A brownish-re<!, vesicular, somcwl1at vitreous rock, sl1owing under the inicroseope a re<l :rn<l vcry·opaquc glassy base with humorous plagiocluses. No. 20. A browilish vesicular rock, showing tiilder the microscope characters very ~imilar to the lust.: No. 23. A compact black i·nck, without mitcroscopic constituents. Jn the section it brown-iiiack giass, iujected with iron oxides ancl bearing numerous· plagioclases and small colorless olivines. Augites 'luitc inconspic110118. Specific gravity, 2·8. No. 24. A closc-grainc<l dark-gray rock, showing to tlic nakml eye only minute elongated white specks suggestive of feldspars. Under t110 microscope like 23. D. A nearly black, highly Vesicular rock, with frequent inclosurcs of pyrite. Under the microscope a yellow-brown glass with occasional largo u.nd 1minll olivincs and more numerous fel<lspars. Specific gravity, 2·88. In connection with the above the following remarks may ho of intcreRt. It is a commonly nccc1itcd principle among petrologists that, the com110sition of the mngmn being the same, the physical properties of any emptive rock arc largely controlled by the conditions of cooling and crystallization, rapid cooling being collllucive to the production of glassy or microcrystallino forms, while a more complete and, as a rule, conrser crystallization is developed. wlicn the cooling is more gradual. As, moreover, the conclitions which itovorn the rate of cooling of n molten magmn nrc mninly thoso of pressure from 1mperincumbent matter-material being the snmc-it becomes nt on co apparent that those portions of any magma which arc deeply lrnricd will be the more highly crystalline. The vesiculnrity and consecprnnt Rpccilic gravity (in bulk) of 11 fava is to 11 certain extent controllecl by similar conditions, since this vesicularity iR duo to the expansion of moisture in the magma; hence tho amount of moist1~ro being tho same, the Ruperlicial portions will be the more ldghly vesicular. Further, it ha!! been shown, tho magrua being tl10 same, the glassy varieties of any rock arc less dense than thoso which are crystalline. Tl1e variations are usnnlly slight, but, nB given in the pnlilishcd descriptions, arc found to be from O·l to 0·3 greater in the holocrystallinc than in the gfassy forms.· At depths greater thun Irnvo yet been rendered accessible it is possible to conceive of a still further condensation, due to n possible cxistcucc of the iron in a metallic Rtate. Our know lodge of the physical conditions of rock massc8 under conditions of hmtt nncl pressure sueh as must exist nt great depths is us yet too incomplete to afford data for anything more than speculation. t From what has b~en said above regarding tho effects of pressure upon the physical conditions of a rock it will ap11car thnt the deeper-lying portions may bo relied upon to show a greater specific gravity-the mngma remaining the same-than do the superficinl portions. It is obvious, therefore, that determinations on specific gravity on the samples submitted can be regarded merely as suggestive. Such determinations as I have made were, with one or two exceptions, ns will ho noticed, clone by means of n. picnometer flnsk, the material being first broken into small bits nnd weighed nftcr tho cxhnustion of the air by means of n pump. The results may be regarded as in all cases n trillo under the true specific gravity of the. mn.terinl, since there is little probability that all the 11ir included. in the pores

------------··-·--------------*Thus, an nvcragc of 23 clet-0rminations of specific gravity of crystalline and semicrystn!lino basalt, as given in Teall's British Petrogmphy, shows n mean of 2·86, with extremes of 2·75-3·10, while 9 determinations on basalt glass gn-ve a menu of 2·71 with extremes of 2·69-2·76/ (British Petrogrnphy, by J. J. Harris Teall, London, 1888.) t The preAcncc of metallic iron in the bnsnlt of Ovifnk serves to illustrnto the possibility of occurrence of this 11ort, nlt.hough unfortunately we arc not nble to sny definitely that this may not be n superficial phenomenon due to n reduction of tho preexisting ores by cnrbon rather thnn original metallic iron from the earth's interior.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART It.
ancl veRicleR was wholly removed. described :
Specimen No. 1. " No. 2. No. 4. No. 5. No. 9. No. 10. No. 11. l\o. 13. No. 13. No. 14. No. 16. No. 16. No. 17. No. 18. No. 23. D. No. 13. No. 33.

6$3

Below are the results obtained in the method

Specific gravity 2·82 3·08 2·90 2·90 279 " 2·76 2·84 2·27 (in powder) 2·12 (in bulk) 273 " 3·02 (ir. powder) 2·99 (in bulk) 2·73 2·83 2·80 2·88 " 2 ·oo (other part of piece) 1 ·70

The mean of the preceding valnes is 2·7. This, according to Profes. sor .Merrill, may be slightly uncle1· the true value. A S}lecimen from the Island of Hawaii not i11cluded in the above collection gave a value of 3·2. In Prof. B. S. Dana's "Contributions to the Petrography of the Sandwich Islands," in the American .Journal of Science, J nne, 188!), the results of a number ·of determinations or specific gravity arc given from the same island. Seven specimens of basalt gave values varying from 2·82 to 3·00 (page 442). Another group of seven determinations furnished examples of even heavier lava, varying from 3·00 to 3·'.W (p:ige 447). If we take the mean of the above values we get a specific gravity of 2·90 for the specimens on the Island of Hawaii. Manna Kea has the form of truncated cone, so that· its effect on the force of gravity at its summit would be intermediate between that of a cone and au infinite plain.
'

As the difference between the ratios of!.... for the two forms is
6

only about one-twelfth of the value of either, a direct mean between them will in all probability be a close approach to the actual effect of the mountain. The attmction of an infinite plain on a point above it iB entirely independent of the distance of the point from the plain, and we have for the plain effect the expression
2
'7t

oh or 15·54 o

The nttractions of the earth at the upper station (Waiau) and the lower station (Kawaihne) are, respectively, Hl5GG·8 6 and 1G58i·G 6 the linear unit being 1 mile throughout.

634

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The forces of gra\'ity at the two places are, when corrected for difforence of latitude, G at Waiau = 978·067 dynes G at Kawaihae = 978·798 " The foregoing values lead to the equation 20·8 15·54 (~ - 0·0007470 = - rn5~f7;U + 1658'i°;a 6
(~ 0 . f rom which ti.= ·u41

If we consider the mountain as a cone with an altitude of 2·473 miles and radius of base (a) of 30 miles, the attraction lleeomes
2 r.

(~ h

[ 1 - ..
(~

/-·,}+-"lf.J = 14·2(i ,i

and tlw resulting value of

6

is Mi8!).

We may therefore assume that the density of the earth is 1·77 times the density of the mon11tai11, or that the mean density of earth= 1·77

x

2·DO = 5·13

Blank page retained for pagination

636

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUR.Vll:Y.
SUM:MARY.

List of stalio11s occupied in the Hawaiian Islands, with results obtained.
1883- 1887-,.891-2.
--------

No.

Station.

Jslancl. /

I Date of occu· '[ patwn.
Sept., 1892
Feb. Mar., Sept., Mar.,

-----------------------Height (feet).

I

Lutitu<le.

Longitude.

--------- ---- -- ---- --------------2

-----------~1------1
0

,, I

h. m. s.

3
4

Nonopapa Waimca "Il" \Vaimea "A"

Niihau Kauai

"

a ncl

"

21 57 00·8 22 21 21 21 12 21
IO

5
6

8
9
IO II

7

,, "A,, J-Ianalei Koloa Puuloa Kahuku
Honolulu

Oahu

" "

1887 1892 1887

12 IJ 14 I5 16 17 18 I9 20 21
22

" " " Waikiki " "
Lahaina Haiku Pakaoao Kaupo
Hana

" " " " "

Jan., i·cb., Nov., 1892 June, 1883 Apr., I887 June, May, June IJcc., Jan. June, June, Aug., June, July, July Aug., July,
June,

I2 52 19 43

56·5 I3"2 15·6 o6·I 02·5

is

"

"

1892 1891· an cl 1891
and

20
IO

21 I6 24·3 21 16 24·7 20 52 22·8 20 56 02·6 20 42 51 ·o 20 J6 40·8 20 45 38·9 19 38 20·9 I IO JI 18·6

10
IO

Maui

1892 1883 1892 18S7
and

1887

23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32

Kailua Napoopoo Kawaihae Kohala Ka Lae Waimea (west base) Waiau Kalaieha Hilo

Hawaii

I

" " " " "

Aug., July, Apr., May, July,

8

20 02 05·9 20 15 29·3 18 53 51·7 I9 48 52·0 19 42 02·6 19 43 u·2

"
Apr. May, July Aug.,

"
and

I306o
666o

"
"

1887
and

33

"

1892

I----'------------ -- -

---------- - - - - - - -'-------------------'
*Transit of :llcrcury.

REPOR1' l!'OR 1893-PART II.
SU::IDiARY.

637

List of sttitio11a occupied in the Hawaiian Is/a11ds, with results obtah1ccl.

---I
I

·---------------·
)lngnetic clements.

No. ~------------------ -- ---

-- -

-- -- 1

I
I

Force of gravity.
Rc1ativc.

I Dcclination(cast).1 Dip. I ----- ------- -- --- - - - - -

llor. intcn.
- -- -- -

I

Ahs<1lutc.

I
2 3 4 6 7 8 9 10
II

01·4 9 46·3 10 o3·5
IO

40 40 40

38·5 22·7 20·2

Dyne. 0·2928 0·2931 0·2882

i--

DJ"'"·

5
10 41 257 0·2938 0·998 836 0·2951 0·2981 0·998 852 0·998 808 0·998 776 0·998 792 0·998 724 9 08·9 39 20·8 0·2989 0·998 790 0·998 142 978·914 978·279 978·959 978·975 978·932 978·900 978·916 978·850

14·7

12 13 14* 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33

10 10

16·3 05·2

4.0 39

42·2 55'5

9 9
9 8
IO

08·1 20·6 03·6 50·0 22·7 52·6 22·4

37 38 38 38 38 38 39

35·8 11 '2 28·0 41·0 34·3 47·8 23·3

0·3024 0·3012 0·2982 0·2996 0·2950 0·2954 0·3062

0·998 672

978·799

9 8

0·997 913 0·998 352

978·055 978·485

-------·
·Time of transit=
4h 43m

57 1 , second and third contncts.

The relative forces of grayity refer to the value at the Smithsonian Institution in \Vashington. In the ab"olutc column this is assumed to be 980·100 dyne:;, and the given values arc the best ones altainablc from the three expeditions.

638

U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
SUl'PLEi\IEN'l'ARY NO'l'E 'l'O 'l'IIE l<OitEGOING REPORT.

Since the foregoing report was written, Professor Alexander has made a comparison of the astro11omical and geodetic latitudes on the three principal islands of the group. Iu addition to this, since the observed latitudes at Kawaihae, Hilo, and \'Vaiau (Manna Kea) are consistent with one :iuother, the latter has been adopted as a standard, and a com· parison has been made betwee11 tho observed latitudes aud the l\fau11a Kea sta11dard. This brings out some interesting deflections of the plumb line. There appears to be a disturbance of more tha11 a minute in the direction of gravity at tlie south point of Hawaii (Ka Lae). At Kohala the plumb line is deflected J1alf a minute toward tho south, and at Kalaieha, nearly as much toward the 11orth, the disturbance bei11g in both cases toward the mountain. 'l'he enormous detiectio11 at Ka Lae (fi7") is also to the north ward. This is evidently caused by the great mass of Manna Loa,* which adds iti-; effect to that of l\:launa Kea, au<l, moreover, is comparatively near to the astronomical station. Ou Maui the same phe11ome11011 appearH. .At Haiku there is a detlec, tion toward tl1e south, aml at .Kaupo there is one to the uorth, aJl(l, as before, the astro11or11ical latitude determi11ed on tho top of IIaleakalit (10 000 foet elevation), at l'alrnoao, appears to be a normal one for tlmt islau<l; .Judging by analogy, there seems to be 110 reasonable doubt that Oalrn would have sbown tile same thing bad a station bee11 made on the summit. between Kalmka a11<1 l'nuloa. The mean <lellection for each of the islands (leaving out Ka J,ae, on the "Island of Ifawaii) is:
II

Hawaii Maui Oahu

27 29 26

When we come to compare the mean latitudes for each island with one another, we find that Mani is too small, wlrnther ju<lged by the Hawaii or the Oahu standard. The amouut is nearly the same in either case, so that the most probable assumption is that there is a preponderance of matter deflectii.1g tho plumb line to the northward at all the Maui stations. This supposition has been made by Professor Alexa11der, and seems to be the most rational interpretation of tho results. The following table has been furnished hy him, and is inserted here with his permission:
·Doth Maun:i Klla and :\-Iamm Loa aro nearly 14 000 feet high.

REPORT FOR 1893-PART II.
Hawaiian latitudes eumpar6d,
[Seo illustration No. 23.]

639

Mauna Kea stnndard.
- ·--·-·--·-----

DifT.

Oahu.

II

o

II

II

o

II

II

Kahuku Puuloa Honolulu Waikiki

21 21 21 21

43 06·1 19 15 ·6 18 02·5 16 24·5

21 21 21 21

42 19 18 16

16·1 u ·8 02·3 26·8

-j-50·0 3·8 0·2 ··- 2·3

+
+

21 21 21 21

42 19 18 16

43·2 38·9 29·0

53'9

-j-22·9 -- 23·3 -27·1 - 2 9·4

Maui.
Lahaina Haiku Pakaoao Kaupo Hana
20 20 20 20 20 52 56 42 36 45 22·8 02·6 51 ·o 40·8 38·9 20 20 20 20 20 52 56 43 37 45 53 '2 04·0 21·6 41·0 47·5 ·-30·4 - 1·4 -·-·30'6 --60·2 - 8·6 20 20 20 20 20 52 34·5 55 45'3 43 02·9 37 22·3 45 28·8

--ll'7
-t-17·3 ·-11'9 ---4 1 10·1

-+

·s

Jlawaii.
Kohn la Kaw:;ihac Mauna Kea Kalaieha Hilo Kailun Ka Lac
20 20 19 19 19 19 18 15 02 48 42 43 38 53
2 9'3 05·9 52·0

02·6 JI ·2

20·9 51 ·7

20 20 19 19 19 19

15 02 49 42 43 39 18 55

17·7 25 ·1 10·7 33 ·5 30·+ 03·8 17·7

-j-11·6 --19·2 --18·7 --19·2 -42·9 -86·0

-··3°'9

20 20 19 19 19

14 02 48 42 43 l<J 38 18 54

59·0 06·4 52·0 14·8 II ·7 45 'I 5c1·0

I
I
I
I

- o·s . ~I~:~
0·5 -24·2 -67·3

-j-30·3

---

Positions for Lnhaina: By observation " Oahu mean latitude '' Manna Kea stnndarcl

II

20 52 22·8 32·3 34·5

.o

