,,

OF

f..Ф,,. ___

:

f

.~:,,,

~7 h () ..1

~....._._-и-~-------... ,~и.~---и-~и...:....,.,-a~:.i:

.

ии1'
.и

THE SUPERINTENDENT
OF THE

COAST SURVEY,
SHOWING

THE :PliOG:IESS OF THE SURVEY
DURING

TI.I TEJ.и1-..

wиAS.HINGTON:
ROBERT ARMSTRoNG, PUBLIC PRIN'i'~R.

18.14.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library, the Office of Coast Survey and the National Geodetic Survey. To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 x124 or www.reference@nodc.noaa.gov.
Please Note: This project currently includes the imaging of the full text of each volume up to the "List of Sketches" (maps) at the end. Future online links, by the National Ocean Service, located on the Historical Map and Chart Project webpage (http://historicals.ncd.noaa.gov/historicals/histmap.asp) will includes these images.

LASON Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387 January 13, 2003

ABSTRACT OF CONTENTS OF REPORT.
Printing order, l>и 1. Letter of tranamisиion, p. 1. Arrangem..-nt of report, p. 3. Reиultl of the year, p. 4. Nantucket aboals, p. 4. Gulf Stream aectious, p. f>. Facilities for triangulation, p. 7. Three typt1s ohides, pp. 7, 8. Co11st Survey organization, p. 9. Coast Surv"y ileveloprnentи ancl discoveries for 1853, p. 10. Sketch0и, pp. I I, 12, Congress map, p. 13. Major I. I. Ste..-ens, Capt. H. W. Benbow, C11pt. A. A. Humphries, p. 14. Deatba of PJ'Of. Walker, Lieut. J. 8. Totten, U.S. Army, B. 1''. West, Surgeon D. L, Bryan, U. 8. Navy, Asshtant Engineer11 W. H. NoJЦlи and George E. Shock, p. 15. Publishing results, p. 16. Pay, p. 17. Summary of work done in oaoh иeeMoo, pp. 17-21. Eotimates for 1854-'55. Sectioua I to XI, pp. 2~25. .fiorida Reef, p. 25. Western eoast, p. 25. Publication of recordи, p. :!6. Proirresa of work inSection I. General remarks, p. 26. Reoonnaia~ance, p. 27. Primary triangulatlon-Sebattis and Mount Blue, pp. 27, 2~. Seeondary tri110gulatioo, p. 29, 'fopography-:Martha's Vineyard, Gay Head, Portland, and Cape Ann, pp. 30-32. Hydrogr11pby-)linot'e ledge, Nantucket ehoale, "Sow and Plga" reef, :Monomoy shoala, Portland, .l'Jy. mouth, pp. 33-36. Ught;-hou~e examinations-tides and views, p. 36. Section II. General remarkи, p. 37. Primary triaog11lation-H11daoo river, p. 37. Topography--Sandy Hook and Hudson river, p. 38. Hydrography-Hudwo river and Jersey Flatи, p. 38. Section III. General remarks, p. 39. Astronomical observation-legrapblc longitudes, p. 40. Primary trillllgUlation-Cape Henry, p. 40. Seeondary triaugulation-verificatioo measuremиnt, p. 41. Topography-Maryland and Virginia, p. 43. Hydrography-oft:shore Cape Uenry, James River, HappahanllO<'k, pp. 44, 45. Gulf Stream. Plan of exploration, Pи 46. C&naveral and Charleston aootiooa, pp. 46, 47. Cape .Fear and Cape Hatteru sections, p. 47. Temperature, pp. 48, 49. Form of bottom, p. 60. Banda of atream, pp. 50, f>l. Section IV. General remarks, p. 52. Secondary trillngulation, p. 52. TopogrDphy-Back bay, Smith's !eland, Cave Penr river, and Cape Lookout, p. 53. Hydrography-Cape Fear riverttid bar, pp4).1a>-f. и , Section V. General summary-Prince's reconnaissance from Cape Fea'fto North Slntee river, p. 55. Telegraphic Jougitude-Cbarleston and Raleigh, p. 56. Triangulatioa-Edisto, Winyaw bay, and Georgetown, p. 57. Savaooah river, p. 58. Tol"'!!'raphy-Georgetowo, p. 68. Hydrograpby-Georgewwn harbor, Winyaw bay, p. 59. Beotiona VI and VII. General remarks, p. 60. Tided, p. 60. Reconoai~иance, p. 61. Triangulation-Key Largo, Koy West, anll St. John1, pp. 61, 62. Topography-A.palachioola, Soldier, Sandи', Elliott'и, and other keye, Boca Vhica, aad St. John'a entrance, pp. 63, 61. Hydrography-J<1 lorida reef, St. Johns, and Fort George iolet, pp. 6'>, 66. Seotion VIII. General remarks, pp. 65, 66. Reconnaiss'aooo from Delta to Atehafalaya, pp. 66, (;7, Secondary sriaogulation-Lakes Borgne and Pontchartrain, p. 67. Topography-Lake Borgoe, Ship and Daupbine Islands, p. 68. Hydnigraphy-Ship aholll, Hom Island Paиa, N-n roads, MiasiHippi soni;1d, p. 69. Light-houae 1urveya aati tides, p. 70. Section IX. General remarke, p. 70. AJIN<i1'1iMI and ,11141!'Detic qbservatione, pp. 71, 72. Triallgulation-Mataи gorda, p. 73. Topography, p. 74. Hy~-ll!l.n Loia Paae, Sabtae, Aransas, p. 74. Light-houae surveys, p. 75. 'rides, p. 75. Sectioos X and XI. General remarks, p. 76. Aetronomloal obaerrations 1111d triangulation, p. 77. Topography-Ban Franciaco bay, S&nta Catalina, San Pedro, p. 77. Hydrography-&n J<'ranci110<1 bay, Humboldt Crescent City, Porto Orford, and Ewing harbon, Umquah river, p. 78. Columbia rivor, Coree. .Bauk, p. 79. Tides, p. 79. Light- и liomиe tnrveya, p. 80. OPFICE WORK. Change of affiatant In charge, p. 80. Organisation, p. 80. 1h:tractl from report of Capt. H. W. Benham, -istant in charge of the uftl~e. remarks on. Cowputlng divi1ion, p. 81. Drawing dlvieion, pp. 81, S!l. Engraving division, p. 82. :Klectrotypiog, pp. 82, 83. Printing maps, p. 83. Map and report dilltribution, p. 84. Inurmnent ~hop, p. 84. ., C,.rpentry, p. 86. Clerical Jinoe, p. BG. Arohivea aDd lil>rary, p. 85. Special dhouuions, PPи !:16, i!l. Diabuniog, p. 81. "

ии~и,

'

\

....
I:"'

}'и""'

J

A

"""..-и-::":E"░&.

'iv~и

CONTENTS OF APPENDIX.
GENERAL
No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
1. Distribution of parties in the field
durin~

Lisrs.
rn.j?e.

the yeu _и. _.и _ииии. _и--. __ ии _. __ ии.иии.иии.иии...иииии и1-и6 и7 2. List of army oflfoers on Coast Survey JI.larch I, 1853 .иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии и7 2 bis. List of army oflicers on CoMt Survey September 1, 1853 .ииииииииииииииииииии.ии.и.ии..ииииии и7 3. Liиt of naval officers rm Coast Survey March I, 18!13 .иии иии- ииииии.и.ииииииии.и.ии..ииииии.иииии "8 3 bis. List of naval officers on Coast Survey September 1, 1853 ииииии.и.иии.иииииииииииииииииииииииии и!) 4. List of""""! engineers on Coast Survey March 1, 18f>3 .ииииии.ииииии.ииииииииии.ииииииииииииииии 4 bis. 'Wt of naval eugiueers on Cnast Survey Sept.ember l, IHf13 ииииии.ииииииииииииииииииииииииииии "llJ 5. Coa~Survey mapи, иketches, and preliminary ebartи, engraQed aud engraving ииииии.иииииииии..иии "Ill "12 6. List of information furnished by Coast Survey in reply to calls .иииии..иииииииииии.иииииииии.иииии 7. Additional list of geogrn.phit>al pи>sitions determined J,y Coast '3urvey ...и..иииии.ииии.иииии.иии.иии и14-и42 8. List of ca1ms, headlands, harbors, &c., of wt1ich thti geographi!!al positions ba..-e been detennioed, и43 topcgraphica.l surveys made, and charts and sketches i~sued, t-0 date of report of ldo:l .иииии.иииии

COA.ST SURVEY REPORTS

A).""D

CORRESPONDENCE.

No. 9. Report of Lieut. Corog !'ti. Woodhuil, U.S. N., &c., on the location of surf-boata on th<i coast of Maine aad New Hampshire................................................................ и43 No. 10. Reхort of Lieut. Comg. H. S. Stellwagen, U. S. N., &c., on the location ,,f surf-boats on the coast of Massachusetts........................................................................... "44 No. 11. Extrl\cts from n letter of Lieut. Comg. H. S. Stellwagen, U S. N., &c., in relation to n rock in tht1 harbor of Gloucester. M11ssachusettl!L . ... --- --и ....... -- ............. ---- ............................. __ --- ....... --и и45 No.}~. Extracts from the report of Lieut. Corog. H. S. Stellwagen, U.S. N., &c., on soundings.near Fippenи nie'a ledge............................................................................... "46 No. 13. Extra.cts froUl the .rep.ort of Sub-Asиistant G.,.A. Fairfield in relation to thti esfablishment of a tide"46 gauge at Siasooiisett ..и. иии-ии ..ииии ии-иии ииии.. .и..ии. ..ииии .. и... ..ии. ...и и.и. иииии. ииии No. 14. ReJ>ort of Capt. W.R. Palmer, U. S. Top. Eng., &c., U[>On the reconnaissance of the Rap[>ahannoek river, Virginia, from Fredflricksburg to Chesapeake ba.y ии и и и и и . и и и и и и и и и и ии . и и и и и . и и . и и . и . и и и и "47 No. 15. Report of Lieut. Comg. J. J. Almy, U.S. N., &c, upon the observations of off-shore tides seaward of Sand Shoal inlet, Virginia иииии.иии.ииииии.иии.ииииииииииии.иии.....иииииииииииии.иииии.и..и "48 No. 16. Report of Lieut. Comg. J. J. Almy, U. S. N., &c., upon the determination of two ehoale at the entrance into Chesapeake bay .и..иии -- ...ии..и..иииии.....иииииии.иии..ииии.ии _.. иии и и. и и и и "49 No. 17. Letter of Superintendent to 8ecr<:tary of !he fieasury, r<>porting the discovery, b;r Lieuta. Comg. Craven and Maffitt, of a bank lymg to the east of the Gulf Stream......... и и и и ии . и и и ии и и ии и и . и "50 No. 18. Eitracts from the report of Lieut. James Totten, U.S. A., &c., in reg1ud to the climate, soil, nnd ~-hnnicter of the Florida keys .ии _.. и .. _ииии.ииииии.ииии.ииииииии.иииииии.иии..и. ~ ии _ . и и и и и "50 No. 19. Extro.ete from the report of Assistant F. H Gerdes, on the reconnaissance of the entrance of Barataria bay, ooaat of Louisiana иииииииииииииииииии.и ;и........................................ иr.1 No. 20. Report of Assistant F. H. Gerdes, on n reconnaissance of the entrance into Timballier bay, eout of Louisiana иииииии..ииииииииииииии , иииии.ии..ииии.иииииииииии.ии.ии...ииии.иии.ииииииииииии ' -:;:J No. 21. Extracts from the report of .A.l!Sistant F. H. Gerdes, upon the survey of Isle Derniere and Ship shoal, "53 enast of Louisiana .ииии.ииии _и и и и и и и и и и и . и . и и и и . и . и и и и . и и и и и . и и и . и . . и и . и и . . и и и и и и и и и и . и и . и No. 22. Extra.eta from the report of Assistant F. H. Gerdes, in relation to the channels of trade of Attakapaa Plantations, Louisiana... и . . и и . и и и и . . и и . и . . и и . . . . и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и . и . . и и ии и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и . . и;)4 No. 23. Es:tracts from a letter of Lieut. Comg. J. Alden, U.S. N., &c., on the results of a rooonnai&l!llil<ltl of the ooast, harbors, &c., between San Franciaoo and the Columbia river......................... .-o5 No. 24. Extracts from the report of Lieut. Comg. J. Alden, U. S. N., &e., upon the determination of the position of Cortez Bank................................................................... "55 No. 25. Extra.eta from the reporta of the chiefa of the ditl'ereut divisions of the office to the aasistant in charge, &bowing detailи of the work exeeuted in e&eh division dnring the year...................... иии и '"56-"67

SPECIAL SCIENTIFIC MATl'ERS.
No. 241. "No. 27. No 28. No. 29. No. 30. иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Not.es on tides at ltey Weat. Florida. by Prof"880r A.. D. Bachti ии.иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Notes on tideu.t Rinoon Point, California, by Profea>r A. D. Ba.che .иииииииииииииииии.ииииииииии Nntes on tides at San Fr&!llcisco, California, by Profe11110r A.. D. Bache ииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Extraets from letters of Asaiatnnt L. F. Pourtalllil upon the examinatiun of specimens of bottom obtained in Golf Str1.>am by Lieutenants Comg. Craven a.nd Maffitt-- ииии..иииииии _ии.ииииии.иии No. 31. Report of Profeasor B. Pierce on determilllltion oflongit11de from observations of moon culminations ии No. 32. Report of Professor W. C. Bond on moon cuhniwi.tioll8 ub.!erved by the ииAmerican method," with remarks on the performance of the "spring gpveroor," invented by Meaan. Bond и.иииииииииииии No, ~ :Report of Dr. B. A. Gould. jr., upon reaultts of obllel"Vations fur the determination of dill"erence of longitude, b7 t.elegrr.ph, betweell Seatou Station, Wuhiugt.on, and Cbrleston, S C иииииииииииииииии
Tide-ta.bl~

"67-"70 "71-"76 "77-"81

"81
*'82-'83 "84

IV

CONTENTS OF APPENiHX.
Page.

No. 34. Report of G. P. Bond, Esq., on the computationи of the chronometer expeditions for determining the difference of longitude between Cambridge nnJ Livtиrpool ииииии.иииии.ииииииииииииииииииииииии No. 35. Letter from J. Hewston, jr., Esq, reporting tl1e resnlts of the analyses of two specimens of deposite from the boiler of Coaиt Survey steamer" Hetzel." иииииии.и.иииииииииии.ии.иииииииииииииииии No. 36. Notes on lithography and lithographic transfer, by Lieut. E. B. Hunt, U. S. Engineers, &c ..ии..ии.. No. 37. Letter of Liout. E . .B. Hunt, U. S. Engineers, &c., describing an instrument invented and called by him the foterranger иииии.иииии.иииииииииии.иииииииииииииииииии.ии.иииииии.иии.иииииииииии No. 38. Delle.ription uf "Saxton's self-re~istering tide-gauge," by Lieut. E. B. Hunt, U.S. Enl?ineers. &.c .иии. No. 39. Tables for projecting maps, without notes on nmp projections. Notes, pp. "96 wи Hr..!. '!'ables, pp и .0103 to '"16;J иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ииииии ииииии иииии / ииии ииииииииииииииииииииии MISCELLANEOUS M:A.TTERS. No. 40. Correspondence between Lieut. <'omg. T. A. Craven, U.S. Navy, &c., and Captain T. E. Shaw, of the steamer " Wm. Gastvn," in relation to assistance rendered that velll!el by the Coast Survey steamer" Cornиin." и-и- __ .. __ ..... ____ ................................ и----- ........ __ .................... ___ и----и.. ..... . ...... .. No. 41. Letter of Lieut. Comg. J. Alden, U. 8. N., &c, in regard to the wreck of the ship Aberdeen, lying in the entrance of the harbor of San J<'raocisco, California ии.. -и и.иии. и-ииии .ииииииииии..ии. _иии и No. 42. Letter of Lieut. Comg. J. Alden, U. 8. N., &c .и recogniиing the servicea of acting Lieut. R. M:Cuyler in rendering asиi.Jitanee to the steamer Tennessee wrecked near the entrance of San Francisco llarbor и-ииииииииииииииииии--ииииииииииииииииииииииии-иииииииииииииии иии. ............... No. 43. Resolutions in relatiиm to the decease of Assistant S. C. Walker by officers in the Coal!t Survey.и-иии No. 44. Resolutions in relation to decease of Lieut. J. 8. Totten, by officers in the Coast Survey............. No. 45. Resolutions in relation to decease of l'.lub-Assistant B. F. West, by officers in the Superintendent's party ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии и-ии ииииииииииииииииииииииииии иии-ии и-и-ии иии-

и164
#

164

"165 и100 и197 и168

LIGHT-HOUSE MATTERS.
No. 46. Letter of Secretary of Treasury, directing surveys ~nd examinations to be made with reference to the location of light.B and other aids to nnvigиtion иииииииии.иии.иииииииии - и.и - иииииииииииииииииии "169 No. 47. Table showing the r011t1lts of re-exami11atiuns of sites of light-houses, beacons, buoys, &c., referred to Superintendent by Secret.ary of Trnwmry .ииииииииииииии.ииииии.ииии.ииииииииии 0 иииииииииии No. 48. Report of Lieut. Comg. H. 8. l'tt'llwagen, U. S. N., &c., on the lighthouse survey of Minot's ledge, Cohnиset Rocks, .Boston harbor ........................................ ии-и ииии.и....ииии.и No. 49. Repurt of Lieut. Comg. M. Woodhull, U. S N., &c., upon the light-house examination of Deep Hole и171 Bock, in Vineyard sound, Mass--иии .. ~.......и....и...и......и.и.иии..и.и.....ии.иии.. и-и ... No. 50. Extr1Wt from the report of Lieut. Comg. M. Woodhull, U. 8. N., &c., upon the llght-honae survey of the" &w ond Pi,f(s" Rocks, off Cutty hunk, Massachusetts ии ии-и ............................. . positi<>ns for range-beacons in New No. 51. Report of Edmund Blunt, Esq., upon the selecti1>n and marking и173 Yotk harbor .иии -иии ииииии.ииииииии.ииииииииииииииииии.иии.иииии.ииииииииииииииииииииии -и No. 52. Report of Lieut. James Totten, U. S. A., &c., upon the results of his examinations of COIUt Survey signals along the Florida reef.и - ииииииииии - и и и и и ии и .и и и и . . и и и и и и и и ии и и ии и и и и и и . ии и и и и и и и и ии и173-1 175 No. 53. Report of Lfout. Comg. B. F. Sands, U. 8. N., &c., upon the lighth1иuse examination and survey of the eastern Antrance to Pascagoula river, .Mililliesippi. ....................................... . No. 54. Report of Lieut. Comg. B. F. Sands, U. S. N., &c., upon the light-house examination and survey of Ship Mho!al, Louisiana .иииииии.ииии.иииииииии.иииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииииииииииииииииии. No. 55. Report of Lieut. Comg. J. Wilkin ....n, U.S. N., &c., npan tho selection of a иite fur a light-hon110 at !Sabine P11S11, Texas; o]l!O a letter from Lieut. M. Hunt, U. S. Navy, light-house inspector ииииииии No. 56. :Report of Lieut. Curng. H. S. Stellwageu, U. S. N., &e., ou the light houиe examination of .Arausat1

m

No. 57. Report of A.aiatat R. D. Cutts, upon the light-h-0use examination and survey of Point .Bonita, Cal.ии

Pasи, Texas иииии.иииии.иииии.ииииии ии-иии~иииии иииииииииии.ииииииииииии иии-ии иииииииииии

No. 58. Errata in the liat of geographical positions in the 8Jllloal report of the Ct>ut Sarvey lbT 1851, dheovи ered siDce the publieotfon of list иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии иии-ии............
Eflll&TAииииииииииииииииииииии ; ииии и и и - и и ииииии ииии ииииии ииии ииии ииии ииииии ииииии ииии ....... ALPHABltTIOAL llrJJIEX и-и ииииииии и и - и- ---и и и - и иииииииииииииииииииии и - и иии -----и иии -и- ииии и - и .

и1s1
и1~

LisT o~ S1u:ToR.&:s.... иии иии ииии иии иии ииии ииии ииииии иии иии ииииии ииии ииии ииии ииии ииии ииии ииии

иJ83-"IB6

иiss

33D CONGRESS, }

lst Session.

[HO. OF RE PS.]

ExEOUTIVE, {

No. 12.

LETTER
. FRO!\[ THE

SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
TRANSMITTING

The report of flie Superinwndent of the Coast Survey.

D&ozMna 31, 1853.-Laid upon the table, and ordered to be printed.

J u1unr 3, 1854.-Bewl-1, That 10,000 copies of the letter of the Secretary of the Treasury communicating the
repGrt of the Snperint.endent of the Co1111t Survey for the year 18!)3, in addition to the usual number, he printed6,0IMJ wpiM thereof for the ue of the House, and the remainder for d!Aribution by the Coast Survey Office; and that t1le same be printed and bound, with the platell, in quarto furm, a.nil that the plates lole printed under the direction o{ the Soperintendent o{ the Coaat Survey.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

.December 27, 1853. Sm: I have the honor to submit, for the infQI"ma.tion of the House of Representatives, the report made to the department by Prbfessor A. D. Bache, Superintendent of the Coast Survey, showing the progress of sa:id work during the year ending November 1st, 1853, with the accompanying map, prepared at the Coast Survey Office, in accordance with the provision of the iict of Congress approved March 3, 1853. Very respectfully, yours, &c., JAMES GUTHRIE, Secret.ary of tlte Prea'8ury. Hon. LINN BoYn, Speaker of tlre House of Rqn-esentatives.

Blank page retained for pagination

REPORT.

MT. BLUE STATION, FIUNK.LIN COUNTY, MAINE,

November 27, 1853. Sm : In conformity with law and the regulations of the Treasury Department, I have the honor to present a report of the progress of the Coast Survey, under my superintendence, during the past year. This amount of work will bear comparison with that of any preceding year, ta.king into consideration the expenditure made и and the results obtained. и Progress has been made in every State of the seacoast of the Union, on thd Atlantic, the Gulf of Mexico, and Pacific, in field opera.tions, or, where they .are completed, in the office work resulting from them. The two Territories on the Pacific have also received a proper share of attention. . My reportи on these various operations will be arranged as follows: 1. General statements and remarks. 2. A condensed account of the progress of the survey during the past year, arranged according to geographical sections and to localities. 3. The estimated progress for the next fiscal year, with the estimates for securing that progress. . 4. A detailed account of the work done in the field and afloat between November 1, 1852, and the same date in 1853, divided into sections, which correspond with the geographic~ sections of the coast. . A brief summary of the subjects treated precedes the details in each section, and the operations are classed as they succeed each other in the survey. The work of each of the officers is there noticed, and. the statistics given as reported by him. 5. The office work is next stated, following the order of succession of its different

P8f.\n the appendix are given lists,, reports, and other data referred to in the body of the report, and classified, for convenience and reference, under several general heads. 7. Sketches of progress in the several sections, and sub-sketches where more detail is necessa.ry, accompany the report, lettered from A onwards-those belonging to the same se~ion bearing the same letter, and the successive sketches in each section being nu:m.l>ered. 8. Sketches are given of important parts of the coast, harbors, channels, shoals, rocks and ledges, dia..gra.ms of the Gulf Strewn and of tides, &c., resulting from the work of the yea.r. и A rough estimate of the comparative progress of the work, in different years, ma.y be had from the fact that in 1844 the work was going on in nine States, in 184.t> in ftfteen; in 184:7 it ha.d been extended to eighteen, and now embraces all the States on both Eastern a.nd Western coa.st.s. In 1844 four sketches of octavo size sufficed toshow the progress; in 1846 nine were required, in 1850 twenty-six, and now titty-fourare necessary for the same general purpose. There a.re few localities of

REPORT OF TllE SUPERINTENDENT

our extended coast, from the St. Croix to the Rio Grande, and from San Diego to Fraser's river, which have not been embraced at least in the preliminary operations of the survey, the information obtained from which is incorporated in the sketches of the yearly report. It needs but a cursory examination of these to show that the advance towards completion is decided .and regular, requiring merely to be steadily followed up to insure its completion within a reasonable time-the system admitting, if it is desired to take the opportunity of our unexampled prosperity to push the survey more rapidlyиto completion, of ready enlargement to adapt the progress to in4 creased appropriations. While increased means would be used economically and effectively, the estimates are limited to the same total amount as that approved by the department for the last year, and ba.sed upon the scale of operatiqns repeatedly sanctioned by the Executive and Congress. 1 deem it but right t9 say, that the economy of nearly forty per cent., which was shown in my report of 1850 to have attended the previous enlargement of the work, would receive some increase from a further extension ; but as a considerable portion of the work must necessarily be in the southern sections, where the expenses of every kind are higher than in the northern, a proportionate gain could not be exp~ted. It would chiefly be in furnishing in a complete form, to commerce and navigation, the great aid of maps and charts, at an earlier day, that such an extension would be beneficial I proceed to state some of the most interesting and important results of the year, and to make such remarks upon them as are suggested by their connexion with the work generally. The most difficult piece of hydrography on our coast has been completed during the past season. The area of broken ground east and south of the island of Nanи tucket is nearly seven hundred square miles in extent, and is spread with dangers, some real and some only apparent. The work which has been prosecuted there perseveringly for some seasons has made the position of the dangers fully known, and has in turn employed the resources and taxed the perseverance of some.of the most able hydrographers of the survey. It was commenced in 1846 by Lieut. C. H. Davis, U. S. N., has been continued since 1849 by Lieut. C.H. McBlair, and has this year been completed by Lieut. H. S. Stellwagen. The breaking of the water over these sunken shoals and banks, so admirably explained in his theory of tides and и waves by Professar Airy, and which, under the name of " Rips," occurs extensively over this region, serves, no doubt, to increase the terrors of the spot, though indicating in reality a change of depth, and not absolute shoa.lness. Th,e outliers of this ground, Fishing Rip and Davis's Bank, have twenty.five and a half feet upon them, while on Great Rip, the Rose arid Crown, Old South, a.nd Davis's shoal, there are, respectively, but four, seven, six, and eight feet. The a.rrange~ent of these shoals led us to suppose tha.t there must be dangers south of DaVlS's shoaJ, and several attempts have been ma.de to look them up. и The explorations of Lieutenant Commanding Stellwagen this year have completed the search over the space south of Davis's shoal to deep water, without any indication of another tier of Qanks. The hydrography of such ground as this is truly difficult; it must be surveyed with the minuteness of a harbor, without the facilities .which n"ighboring. land affords. The land cannot be seen from the deck of a. vessel from D,avis's shoal, and yet it must be traversed closely with the sounding4ine, a.nd the positfomi Qf the soundings be closely determined. It is neooasary to esta.bliah ,~from those: oo land by floating objects, which; like ve8sels, can be seen a.t~a. sufllcient distance} and to preserve temporarily the positions of these floating st&tions by buoys. The first severe storm not only stops the actual sounding work, but is apt to break up the system entirely by removing or ehangibg ~the .poeitioaS' these marks. The wea.ther

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

5

fit for surveying on that peculiarly stormy part of the coast is but a small fragment of ea,ch summer, and the harbors which must necessarily be sought as a refuge un the coming up of storms, which cannot be weathered in such exposed situations, are distant. It is no small source of congratulation that this difficult work is well through with, and without accident-to those who.have so faithfully encountered the . . very dangers which they seek in order to instruct others how to avoid them. The excitement caused by the mere rumor this summer that one of the Atlantic steamers was upon these shoals, shows the well-founded dread which the greatest commercial and navigating community of our country has of them-an excitement which was hardly n.llayed by the accompanying assurance that the steamer seen was one of the surveying steamers, whose departure to the shoals had been duly published, and whose business it was, therefore, to be just there, and at that time, where and when no passenger steamer should be. The preliminary sketch of these shoals, issued last year from the Coast Survey Office, will be speedily brought up to date and published. If a permanent light could be placed on the Old South shoal, it would, in a great degree, deprive this region of its danger to large vessels иbound into New York. The completion of the prima:ty triangulation of another of the sections of the coast, (the third section,) and the rapid progress of the hydrography of the same section, which now embraces nearly the entire entrance of the Chesapeake bay, are gratifying results of this year. Two shoals have been determined off the Chesapeake entrance, which, if obscurely reported before, were not sufficiently known to be placed upon the charts, and public notice of the determinations has been given to mariners. One of the most interesting hydrographic results ever obtained in the survey, and which opens a rich field of investigation, and has most important theoretical and practical bearings, is the carrying of soundings for some two hundred miles (with a small interval only) southeast from Charleston, directly off the coast, and the finding of soundings after crossing the Gulf Stream, from St. Simon's, (coast of Georgia,) St. Augustine, and Cape Canaveral; (Florida ) The character of the bottom which this work reveals is still more interesting-ranges of mountains and hills, with a general trend resembling that of the coast, and with heights and bases like those above the wawr in the far interior. The relation of the form of the bottom of the ocea.n, and especia11y that of these sections, to the peculiar features heretofore discovered in the Gulf Stream, is well determined by the observations of the year, particularly to those curious divisions of the warm water of the Gulf Stream by intrusive cold water, confirmed by so many observations, and now traced as far south as St. Augustine, in Florida. The discovery of the soundings on the other side of the Gulf Stream was lnade independently, and within three days ot each other, (June '1.thand June 10th,) by the parties of Lieuts. Comg..J. N. Maffitt and T. A. Craven, U. S. N., the one sounding across the Gulf Stream from Charleston, the other from Cape Canaveral. On the Charleston section, Lieut. Comg. Maffitt struck soundings in three hundred fathoms, then at eleven miles in six hundred, and again atи twelve miles in three hundted and seventy fathoms. The first and second of these soundings represent a mountain eighteen hundred feet in height and eleven miles in base on the o:lf-shore, and very steep on . the in-shore side. The development of this "Subject, 88 far as it is appropriate to this report, belongs to another part of it; but I may here refer to the profile of the bottom of theses there given, (Sketch Gulf Stream, No. 2,) 88 showing the relations of the configuration to that of the land. Lcieut. Comg. Craven, in a distance of a mile and a. quarter, passed from a sounding of _four hundred a.nd sixty to one of one thousand and siX:ty fathoms across the Stream fr.em Cape Canaveral. A g.l&lice a.t the diagram

6

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

just mentioned will show the connexion between the intrusive cold water first discovered by Lieut. Comg. G. M:. Bache on the sections from Sandy Hook, Cape Henlopen, and Cape Henry, in 1846, and the figure of the bottom, in reference to which further remarks will be made, as illustrated by diagrams of Lieut. Comg. Craven's work. The existence of" ripples," apparently connected with the irregularities of the bottom, was noticed by Lieut. Comg. Craven. The observations of this season clearly establish the existence of the polar current below the Gulf Stream, and its proximity to the shore where the depth permits, even where the surface water may be quite warm. They further render it very probable that there are counter-currents corresponding to the cold streaks in the Gulf Stream, which, if established, must be useful in navigation. It can hardlr be doubted that this cold water off our Southern coast may be rendered и practically useful by the ingenuity of our countrymen. The bott9m of the sea. fourteen miles ENE. from Cape Florida, five hunared and fifty fathoms in depth, was in June last at the temperature of 49░ Fahrenheit, while the air was 81░ Fahrenheit. A temperature of 38░ (only six degrees above the freezing poin,t of fresh water) was found at one thousand and fifty fathoms in depth, about eighty miles ea.st of Cape Canaveral. The mean temperature of the air at St. Augustine for the year is 69░.9 Fahrenheit, and for the three winter months 57░.5. The importance of the facts above stated, in reference to the natural history of the ocean in these regions, is very great, but, of course, reGJ_uires to be studied in connexion with other physical data. It has also a bearing upon the important problems of the tides of the coast. This exploration of the Gulf Stream will be steadily prosecuted to its close, the different problems being taken up in turn, or in connexion, as may be found practicable. Too much credit cannot be given to the officers who bn.ve by their assiduity and ability developed so far the problem of the temperatures, not only at the surface but to the greatest depths, from the section acroBs the Stream from Cape Cod to that from Cape Canaveral. The limits of the Gulf Stream иas now known to us are traced on the map ordered by Congress, showing the progress of the several operations of the Coast Survey, and on the sketch accompanyи ing my report. (Sketch Gulf Stream, No. l.) The relation of the tides on shoals at sea, off the coast, to those on the immediate shores, must be a determination of great importance. For s~veral years I have sought for observations of this kind, and they have been frequently attempted, but without success. This year the efforts of Lieut. Comg. Almy have been rewarded by the approximate results which were necessary to connect the soundings at sea., and the tidal reductions of the shore, and which will be detailed in their appropri~ ate place. The reconnaissance of the coast of parts of North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida., and Louisiana., to determine the plan of work there, has been a valuable result of the last season. With that of the Gulf coast, where existing charts have been made from comparatively loose information, has been connected the approxima.te determination of astronomica.l positions, enabling us to give more accuracy to our own progress sketches, and to furnish important geographical data for general use. The hvdrographic reconn!\,issance of the Western coast, so essential to commerce and na.vfgation there, has been completed from &n. Francisco north, ,ha.ring been finished this sum.mer. . A. new edition ~f the cha.rt.s based ll,IJOD i~ Ui in progress. The work there is begmmng to assume its regttlar form. R~es and pre~ liminary snrveys have been .made in a rapid wa.y, &nd sketches have l>een published to meet the immediate wants of the country ; accurate surveys wd complete maps wiU in turn speedily take the place .of these. The officers on that coast, from the first commencement by the 18.te lamented McArthur to the present time, have

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

7

labored most assiduously to give the work the turn required b.y the wonderful development of the country. The history of such surv-eys does not prnsent a case of rapid execution and publication of results which will compare with these which we owe to the Coast Survey parties in California and Oregon, and the office organization on this side. The more thoroughly the coast is examined, the more effectually do those difficulties to a continuous triangulation, which were so fully believed in the earlier stages of the survey to exist, disappear. By far the largest extent of the coast, as I have shown in my report of 1849,* presents great facilities for the work, by bigh hills near the coast, by islands lying off it, and by sounds of various breadths, only sep.arated from the ocean by narrow strips of land. No portion yet examined, from Passamaquoddy bay to the St. Mary's, from the Capes of Florida to the Tortugas, from Cedar Keys to Atchafalaya bay, and from Galveston to the Rio Grande, though including many places where it was argued that the system would fail, presents any insurmountable obstacles, or requires the system of triangulation to be departed from for methods which are still available when the other fails. The triangulation extends from Cape Small, in Maine, to Old Topsail inlet, North Carolina, (Beaufort,) a distance of fourteen hundred and fifty miles1 measuring along the sides of the triangles, with a gap of but twenty-four miles, which we are- certain, from the examination of Assistant Cutts and of Major Prince, can be filled up, and which the ordinary progress of the work is gradually closing. The same plan of extension from the bases, in the different sections, will have the same results. Eachjection rests upon its own base and astronomical determinations, while detached; its survey is complete in itself, as far as it goes; the charts are published as the results come in, and when the triangulations join, the bases will serve to verify each other. In the smaller triangulations the bases will be more numerous, but the principle of the work remains the same. The general reconnaissance, which has made important progress during the last season, will be continued until we know, through its instrumentality, the facilities and difficulties for work along the entire coast, and two or three years, at most, will suffice, at the present rate of progress, to иclose up the intervals which now exist. I have appended to the report of this year a list of tidal data for the use of navigators. These results require not only laborious observations to collect, but still greater labor to compute. After trying several different plans for securing, with regularity, the necessary tidal reductions, with but partial success, I have now obtained the desired result by organizing a. party expressly for this work, combining the observations and reductions under my own immediate direction. The gradual progress of the observations and their immediate reduction are thus secured. The results are not yet in condition to present as scientific data, but the rapid pr.ogress ma.de in bringing them into that shape warrants the belief that they may soon be thus prepared, and in the mean time the tables presented in the Appendix No. 26 have a practical value which induces their publication. The only systematic effort ~e to determine the progress of the tide-wave along our coast w.a.s under the direction of a. distinguished foreigner, the master of Trinity College, Cambridge, the Rev. lfr. Whewell The progress of the hydrography of the coast not only 1иeqnires such investigation, but the determination of the tidal phenomena peculiar to the principal ports. . It is !L11 in~resting fa.cl. that the tides of our. Atlantic coast, of parts of the Gulf ot'Mex100, and of the Western .c~ are of three different types. Those of the Athultic coast are of the ordinary type of tides--twice in the twenty-four hours-иEx. Doc. No. 5, 3ltt ~ bt -lllll, , Senate, pp. 2 a.d S.

8

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

having, however, a distinct, though small, difference in height and time between the morning and afternoon tides, known as the diurnal inequality. The Gulf tides are single-day tides, and, until the Coast Survey developments established the contrary, were believed to depend upon the winds which have the character of trade,vиinds, and, therefore, considerable regularity along that coast. ' The tides of our Pacific coast ebb and flow twice in the twenty-four hours, but with so large a diurnal inequality in height that the plane of reference of mean low water, commonly used on the charts, would, if employed, be a snare to navigators. A rock in San Francisco bay, which at one low water of the day might be covered to the depth of three and a half feet, might at the next be awash. The иobservation of the tides on the Atlantic coast having been made in close connexion with the other parts of the hydrography, the stations still wanting will be filled up as we advance. A few stations are still required on the Gulf of Mexico to compl~te the general determinatiem of its tides from Cape Florida to the Rio Grande. We have already found nearly the dividing position, Cape St. George,и Apalachicola, where the tides resemble on one side, eastward, those of Cedar Keys, Key West, and Tampa bay, ebbing and flowing twice each day, with a large diurnal inequality, and on the other, westward, resemble the tides at Mobile entrance, the Delta of the Mississippi, Galveston;"tl.hd the Rio Grande entrance, ebbing and flowing, as a general rule, but once in twenty-four hours. Those only who have encountered the vexations incident to imperfect observations-the failure to obtain results from the indifferenc~ want of skill, or neglect of observers, not to speak of worse _cases-will fully enter with me into the praise bestowed on one of the worthy men to whose patience and accuracy we owe so many of the tidal results in the Gulf of Mexico. On the Western coast r have been able to take up the tidal problem in a more general way than on the Eastern, and expect the best results from the arrangements there made. Already we know that at three important points self-registering gauges of comparison have been established, and that all the zeal and energy of an. able officer is devoted to carrying out the plan of continued observations at these stations, with more temporary ones at intermediate points for their connexion. The working up of the observations as ther come in goes steadily forward, tu1d the a.ccumuiation of results is such that provision should be made for their publication in the most ample detail. The memoirs which I submit from time to time to the judgment of our scientific men in the meetings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and which are published in its proceedings, and the table of results accompanying the charts and my report, do not by any means supersede the official publication, which is essential in every public work of this sort, and which must be of a much more detailed chara.cter, giving the particular observations from which the general results are deduced. The tables of geographical positions which were published with my иreport of 1851 * have since received important additions, which are given in the Appendix to the present report (No. 'I.) The first list contained the positions of 3,240 points, and the present addition is ofи some 600. In the monthly repPrts made. to me of thf! difrerent divisions of the office, in the replies to the numer-0us inquiries aildressed to the division, in the plans for wor~ results obtained, aa4 reports made, I cau:not but recognise that the computing department, of the office has obtain~d a position of .efficiency worthy ."of 8.11 pra.ise, and of special mention in enumerating the pr-0min~nt results of the ~ork, though this has. "bmmи dae not. to ~he efforts of one but of many years, con:lbmed with rema.rk:able .~ am! a8Sldmty, directed by dear intellect and ample knowledge.
и Ex. &c. :No. 3, 3l!d Congte_ta .ht aeaion, s.ute, pp. JlfUo t&

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

9

The reductions of the la.st chronometer expedition for determining the difference of longitude between a point on our coast and one in Europe have advanced towards completion, the discussion being of the most thorough sort. The discussion of the problem of deducing longitudes from observed moon culminations, interrupted by the lamented decease of Professor S. C. Walker, has been undertaken by one of our 'most eminent mathematicians, and promises to lead to very sa.tisfactory methods of reduction, at once original and practical. This will enable the immediate use of our observations of moon culminations, without the necessity of waiting for the receipt of corresponding results, often productive of much delay; and it will also prevent the loss of valuable observations for the want of actual correspondences of observation, as now constantly happens. и The feature of the reorganization of the survey under the act of Congress of 1843, which secured a close connexion between the science of the country and the work, was most judicious. '!'he tendency of such works is undoubtedly to adopt a routine and to adhere to it, so that sometimes they fall behind the progress of the science of the day. System is so very desirable that its excess, constituting a blind routine, is always a danger to be avoided. When closely in contact with the scientific movement of the country, this becomes impossible, the judgment of men of science being prompt to detect any faltering in the forward course of oper. ations which they understand, and in every improvement which they fully appreciate. The act just referred to, giving a wise discretion to the Treasury Department, and the regulations established in conformity with it in 1844, have sufficed i"or the present development of the work with scarcely a necessary supplement. и The advantage of bringing together civilians, officers of the army, and officers or the navy, in one organization, as was done by the act just referred to, under the Treasury Department, which alone could unite them, has been so often dwelt upon in former reports, that I feel it would be out of place here to repeat my observations. I believe, indeed, that it is so generally admitted as not to require any further remark. I therefore simply refer to the reports of 1848, 18501 and 1851,* in which the subject is fullr, discussed. In execution of the "Directions ' for the Coast Survey, approved by the Secretary of the Treasury in June la.c:it, instructions have been issued by me to the several chiefs of parties in relation to the work required from them. A list of the field parties, specifying the several localities of work and the operations in which they were engaged during the past year, is given in Appendix No. 1. My own service, as chief of a. party, will be found in the same list. By monthly reports from the parties a supervision of the operations is maintained, providing for their due progress and connexion, and for contingencies ari!ing during the season. I hav-e perso:oe.lly inspected the operations of several of the parties, and when the operations of several were to be combined to effect an immediate pllt'pose, have personally made the necessary arrangements. I was enabled generally to combine the inspections made in Sections Ill, IV, V, and VI, with my service on the commissions for the improvement of the James and Appomattox rivers, for C~e иFear entran.ce a.nd river1 and for the Savannah river, which had been requested by the W a.r Department, a.nd received_ the Sa.nction of the Secretary of the Treasury. During the surveying ~eason I visited the parties on the Jam.es nver, a.t R.8.leigh, on the Cape Fear, Wmyah ba.y, the Stano, Savannah. . river, and theиSt. John's, and gave personal directions to the parties in Section I, on the way to, and while a.t, lily stations in Maine.

IO

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

I visited New York, by request of tlre Common Council, in relation to the reguи lation of the water-line of the harbor. The number of officers of the army attached to the Coast Survey is at present sixteen, namely: of the Corps of Engineers, four ; Topographical Engineers, two ; of the line, ten. Under the rules for details, adopted by the Secretary of War, in October, 1853, the service of at least four additional officers will be obtained. These rules will make the number of military and civil assistants equal, as required by the plan of reorganization of 1843, and will permit these officers to remain a. sufficient period on the survey to acquire the necessary experience for usefulness in its operations. This result we were approaching in 1846, when the Mexican war swept off all the officers but two from the Coast Survey. The number of army officers has been steadily increased, as the War Department was willing to detail them to meet our applications. A list of the officers of the army attached to the work in .March and in September is given in Appendix No. 2. The number of officers of the navy attached to the Coast Survey is sixty-four, whose names are given in Appendix No. 3. Besides the sea officers, thirteen engineers are attached to the steam-vessels in commission. I have necessarily dwelt, in my successive reports for the . last three years, upon the rapid rotation in the naval parties, and other circumstances by which the efficiency of the hydrography was very much impaired. Justice to the work required that I should point out the facilities which had been withdrawn, and the expenses which the Treasury Department had been required to assume. I have now every reason to expect that the former relations with the Navy Department will be restored, and that full efficiency will be once more given to the hydrographic parties. A list of developments and discoveries made by the Coast Survey was published in my report of 1851,* and continued in that of 1852f. Very few portions of the coast are closely e:xamined without yielding discoveries important to navigation. The charts furnished by the surveys are its most important practical results, showing not only the character of the bottom in the sailing tracks of the coast, or the pilot tracks of harbors, but over every portion of the extent of coast and harbor. In the course of the minute investigations required for this purpose, facts of a striking kind are ascertained. During the past year, for example : I. .A ridge connecting Davis's New South shoal and Davis's Bank (Nantucket shoals) has been found. 2. .A small bank or knoll, with but :five fathoms on it, about .five miles east of Great Rip, with twelve fathoms between it and Davis's Bank and Fishing Rip, the water gradually deepening outside of it to the northward and eastward beyond the limits of the series of shoals. 3. A rock, not on any chart, in the inn~r harbor of Gloucester, Massachusetts, which should be marked or removed. 4. A bank ninety miles eastward from Boston, with about thirty-six: fathoms of water upon it-probably a knoll connected with Cashe's ledge, but having deep water between it and the ledge. и и 5. The inlet at the north end of Monomoy island has diminished considerably .in extent since 1848, and in the course of a few years will probably close entirely, a new one being open to the north of Chatham light, which is now the prineipal entrance to Chatham harbor. 6. Two shoals near the entrance to the Chesapeake-one, four and three quarters nautical miles SE. by E. from Smith's Island light-house, with seventeen feet on it;
* E:a:. Doo. No. 3, Senate, 32d Congreu lat "'8doo, pp. 126, 127.
t Ei. Doo. No. 68, Senate, 32d Congreu 2d l!fflion, p. 80.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

n

and the other, E. by S. nearly, seven and three quarters miles from the same light-house, with nineteen and a half feet on it. 7. The remarkable discovery of continuous deep-sea soundings off Charleston, and of soundings in the depth of between four and five hundred fathoms beyond the Gulf Stream. 8. The discovery of cold water at the bottom of the sea, below the Gulf Stream, along the coast of North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. 9. Tlte well-ascertained influence of prevailing winds in the movement of the bars at Cape Fear and New Inlet entrances, and the gradual shoaling of the main bar, the latter fact being replete with interest to the extensive commerce seeking this harbor. 10. The changes at the entrance to Winyah bay, Georgetown harbor; the washing away of Light-house Point, at the same entrance. 11. The removal of the East Spit of Petit Bois island in the hurricane of 1852, opening a new connnunication between the Gulf and Mississippi sound, and the rendering of Horn Island Pass more easy of access by the removal of knolls. 12. The diminution, almost closing, of the passage between Dauphine and Pelican islands, at the entrance of :Mobile bay. 13. The accurate determination of Ship shoal, off the coast of Louisiana, in connexion with the site for a light-house. 14. The changes at Aransas Pass, coast of Texas, as bearing upon the question of placing a light-house or light-boat there. 15. The determination of the position and soundings on Cortez Bank, near the island of San Clemente, coast of California. 16. The changes at Humboldt harbor, California. 17. The depth of water on the bars at the entrance of Rogue's river, and of Umquah river, Oregon. 18. The changes in the entrance to Columbia river. 19. The determination of several anchorages on the coast between San Francisco and the Columbia river. The calls for information from the archives of the Coast Survey have very much increased of late years. During the one just passed eighty:seven applications for copies of maps and charts, and statements founded upon them, have been received and answered under the authority of the Treasury Department, and in pursuance of one of its general regulations. Of these, forty-three copies or tracings of maps were for the use of the officers of the United States government, forty-one were furnished to individuals or associations, and three to State or local authorities. The liberal regulations of the department places the information from the archives of the Coast Survey at the disposal of those who desire it, at the mere cost of copying. A list of the tracings, &c., flirnished from the office, is given in .Appendix No. 6. One hundred and forty-eight maps, charts, and preliminary sketches are now in progress, or have been published ; a list of which, showing the class of each, its relative progre~ whether in the hands of the draughtsman, engraver, or electro. typist, or published, is given in the Appendix No. 5. The following maps and sketches, fifty-four in number, will accompany my report: 1 to 10. Progress sketches in the several sections, marked from A. to K, incluи sive; Section No. 1, A.; Section No. 2, B, &c. J.1. .Alden's rock, Portlari.d harbor. 12. Minot's. ledge, off Boston harbor, (light-house survey.) 13. Nantucket shoals, (hydrogra.phy from 1846 to 1853 1 inclusive.)

12

REPORT OF TllE SUPERINTENDENT

14. Sow and Pigs ledge, Cuttyhnnk, Massachusetts, (light-house survey.) 15. Romer shoals and Flynn's knoll, New York harbor, (light-house sketch.) 16. Changes at Sandy Hook, New York harbor. 17. Seacoast of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, No. 2. 18. Metomkin inlet, coast of Virginia; Wachapreague inlet, coast of Virginia; Hog Island harbor, coast of Virginia. 19. Cape Charles and vicinity, coast of Virginia. и 20. Cherrystone inlet, coast of Virginia. 21. Pungoteague creek, Virginia, (light-house sketch.) 22. Progress of the survey of Cape Fear river and :reconnaissance eouthward. 23. Cape Fear entrance and New inlet, North Carolina, (preliminary chart.) 24. Chart showing the progress of the survey of the Gulf Stream. 25. Diagrams of the Charleston, St. Simons, and Cape Canaveral sections of the Gulf Stream. 26. Cape Roman shoals, South Carolina. 27. North Edisto entrance, South Carolina. 28. Progress of the survey of Savannah river and Tybee entrance, Georgia. 29. St. John's River entrance, Florida. 30. Sub-sketches of progress of survey of Florida reef. 31, 32. Diagrams of tides at Key West. 33. East and West entrances of St. George's sound, Florida. 34. Horn Island Pass, Mississippi, from a resurvey. 35. Pascagoula river, Mississippi, (light-house survey.) 36. Barataria bay, coa.st of Louisiana. 37. Timballier bay, coast of Louisiana. и 38. Isle Derniere and Ship shoal, (light.house survey_) 39. Sabine River entrance, (light-house survey.) 40. Galveston entrance, Texas. 41. San Luis Pass, Texas. 42. Aransas Pass, coast of Texas. 43. Reconnaissance of the coast of California from San Diego to San Francisco. 44. Cortez Bank, off San Clemente isla.nd, coast of California. 45. San Diego bay, California. 46. Santa Ba.rbara, coast of California. 47. Progress of the survey of San Francisco bay. 48. Diagrams of tides at Rincon Point, San Francisco bay. 49_ Progress of the survey of the Columbia river. 50. Shoal-water bay, Washington Territory. , 51. Reconnaissance from Gray's harbor, Waahington Territory, to Admiralty inlet. 52. Cape Flattery, Washington Territory. 53. False Dungeness, Washington Territory. 54. Self-registering tide-gauge. During the past year the following notices have been issued from the Coast Survey Office, under the authority of the Treasury Departmentи No. 1. Of geographical positions on the Western. coast. No. 2. Of the tides in San Francisco hay. No. 3. Of the position of Cortez shoal, oft' San Clemente islandt coast of California. No. 4. Of two shoals oft' Smith's island. coast of Virginia. и ии No. 5. Of the deep-sea soundings o:ff the coast of South C&rolina, Georgia, and

Florida, and the discovery of soundings beyond tile Gulf Stream..

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

13

No. 6. Of the hydrographic reconnaissance of the coast of California and Oregon Territory, embracing notices of Mendocino, Humboldt bay, Crescent City bay, Ewing harbor, Rogue's river, Point St. George, Cape Blanco, Umquah river, and Columbia river. No. 7. Of a. bank south of Ca.she's ledge, with thirty-six fathoms on it. Examinations have been made, under the law of 1851 and 1852, for the Lighthouse Board, with minute surveys in cases requiring them, of York harbor, Maine ; of Minot's ledge and the Cohasset rocks, off Boston harbor; of Deep-Hole rock, Cotuit, Massachusetts; of the Sow and Pigs reef, off Cuttyhunk, entrance to Buzzard's bay; of Romer shoal, New York harbor; of the Florida reef, in reference to signals or sea-marks; of East Pascagoula entrance, Mississippi ; of Ship shoal, off Last island, (Isle Derniere,) Louisiana; of Sabine entrance and of Aransas Pass, Texas; of Point Bonita and Humboldt bay, California, and of Umquah River entrance, Oregon. Examinations for placing surf-boa.ts have been made on the coast of Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts, by request of the Treasury Department. The reports made on both the foregoing classes of work are given in the Appendix. Congress at its last session directed that a map should be prepared, showing, as nearly as practicable, the configuration of the coast, the probable limiU! of the Gulf Stream, the limits of soundings off the coast, and exhibiting, by colors, the progress made in the several operations of the survey, as reconnaissance, triangulation, topography, and hydrography, and in the publication of the maps and charts resulting from the work Such a map has been compiled from the archives of the survey, as far as they furnish the information, and from other authorities where the Coast Survey has not yet reached. The progress sketches accompanying my reports have shown, year by year, all the details of the field-work in a form suited to engraving, and the engraved sketches have, in part, been prepared in the Coast Survey Office, and generally by the apprentices to the art of engraving there, so as to be ready for publication as early as my report. Besides these, the Congress map, in colors, on a scale of T,T0!-,0 0-0, has been prepared in the office to accompany the present report. The very fortunate result of our attempts to explore the Gulf Stream the past year has enabled me to give, from our own data, a very large portion of the hydrography of that remarkable peculiarity of the American coast. The explanations which will accompany the Congress map will dispense with remarks here in regard to its details. Certain topics in regard to the organization and economy of the Coast Survey, which might be expected to find a. place in my report, have been so often discussed by me that a reference to former reports will perhaps be more suitable than any extended notice here. Such subjects are the organization of the parties for different operations, explained in the report of 1845 ;* the advantages of the division of the coast into sections in the report of 1846, t and again further developed in 18471 i and in 1849 ;Д .the order of succession of the operations of the survey explained in 1847,1 and again in more detail in 1848;1 the advantages of the triple organization of eivili1ws, army and navy officers, noticed in 1848,11 1849,4

14

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

1850,* and 1851 ;t the comparative gain by increasing the scale of the work, 1850 ;t the relative cost of the topography and of the land surveys in 1848Д and in 1850 ;1 the relative cost of our own and of foreign surveys, 1849 ;2 the cost of the different operations showing that scientific accuracy is gained at small cost, 1848 ;3 the plan of working deemed appropriate to the Western coast, 18504 and 1851. 5 In April last, Bvt. Maj. I. I. Stevens, of the Corps of Engineers, the assistant in charge 9f the Coast Survey Office, was appointed Governor of Washing-,и ton Territory, and his new duties, upon which he entered with his characteristic zeal, soon drew him entirely away from us. The gain to the country in his appointment, and especially to that new region to which he bas been called, will no doubt be great, but our loss is proportionably great. An administrative ability of a high order was joined to unceasing activity and great force of character ; varied general .and professional know ledge, to great clearness in discerning ends, and fixedness of purpose in pursuing them; remarkable knowledge of men, and easy control of those connected in business with him, to personal qualities, which rendered official intercourse agreeable to those about him. The system with which he followed up plans, complicated as well as simple, insured success in his admini~tration, and was felt in every department of the office, of which he had thoroughly mastered the details as well as the general working. The experience acquired by such an officer is invaluable to the work, and not soon to be replaced~ whatever may be the resources of his successor. In the officer detailed by the War Department to succeed Maj. Stevens, Capt. H. W. Benham, of the Corps of Engineers, it is certain that the qualities will be found, necessary to the charge of the office even in the present varied and ex.tended condition of its operations. I would here again call the attention of the department to the recommendation made in my former reports in relation to Capt. A. A. Humphreys, U. S. Topographical Engineers, formerly assistant in charge of the Coast Survey Office. This officer was placed in charge when the augmentation of the scale of the Coast Survey was begun, and devoted himself, with untiring assiduity and most remarkable success, to the difficult task imposed upon him. His health suffered so seriously from the accumulated labors which he undertook, that he was finally obliged to leave the work. . His services were so fully shown by the condition to which he had brought the office during his charge of it1 that I simply discharged a duty in recommending him for a brevet on retiring. The varied and complicated duties of the several departments of office-work require not only professional knowledge of a high order, but intense application, and very considerable administrative power. The new form of organization to be given to the different parts of the office rendered Capt. Humphreys' duty one of even greater than ordinary difficulty, and he discharged it with success, regardless of the gradual undermining of his health. As this duty is imposed by law on the officers of the army, I respectfully submit, that for distinguished execution of it he should have the reward appropriate to the offi~er, a brevet, and would ask that application may be made representing
и Ex. Doe. No. 1, Senate; No. 12, Howte of Reps., Slat Congreu ~ aeaaiou, p. 6. t Ex. Doe. Nu. 3, Senate, 32d Congreas lat 1enion, p. 6. t Ex. Doe. No. 7, Sen&te; No. 12,Houseof&ps., 31at Congr-~ -Ilion, p. 5. Д Ex. Doc. No. 13, House of Rep11.; No. 26, Sena.ta, 3tltll Congreas 2d 8088ion, p. 3.. 1 Ex. Doe. No. 1, Senate; No. 12, Hoose of R1'ps., 3lat Congr688 2d aeuioo, p. 6. и Ex. Doe. No. 5, Stma$e, 31st Oollgreu Jst senlon, p. 4; allO, EL Doe. '.No. 26, Beute, 39th Cougreu 2d seulon, p. 4. и Ex. Doo. No. 26, Se111<t;e; Yo. 13, Ho111e of Reps., 30th Oougrees 2d aeuion, pp. 3,.,; и Ex. Doo. No. 7, Sena.to; No.12, H0081! ofBepa., 31.t Congmu ~~'pp. i, 62. ' Ex. Doe. No. 3, Seua.te, 3'ld C~ lat tellioo, pp. 4, 5, 83.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR l 853.

the case of Capt. Humphreys to the honorable Secretary of War for favorable consideration. The Coast Survey has again, during the past year, suffered severe loss by the death of valued officers. Professor S. C. Walker, who died on the 30th of January last, was in the first rank among those men of science in our country who devote themselves to mathematical and practical astronomy. He bad been connected for nearly ten years with the Coast Survey, at first giving a portion of his time to the collection of observations and to computations of longitudes from astronomical observations, after which he was more closely connected as an assistant in charge of the subject just named, and of the telegraphic 'Operations for differences of longitude. While engaged in this duty he invented the application of the galvanic circuit to the recording of astronomical observations, which, under various ingenious modifications, is known as the American method. His researches in physical astronomy are among the most elaborate which our country has produced, and have justly been regarded as models of the practical application of some of the most refined processes of modern analysis. The longitude problem in his hands was in a fair way for solution, the discrepancies having been clearly pointed out and traced in a general way to their origin, when his impaired health gave warning that he must soon cease from his labors, and after a brief struggle with disease he was taken from us. The feellngs of his brethren in the Coast Survey are shadowed in the I?roceedings of the meeting which they held on his decease. (Appendix No. 43.) The loss of such a man is truly ineparable to the work and to the country. He had made a special department of researches his own, and his death leaves a marked vacancy in the ranks of American science. Lieut. Joseph Swift Totten, U .. S. .Army, who died in May last, had twice been connected with the survey, his first connexion having shown his adaptation for the work, and having only been given up for service in the Mexican war. He was in bad health when he rejoined us, and though for a time the duty seemed to improve his condition, it was. but for a time. He undertook the triangulation of Georgetown harbor when most men would have yielded to the pressure of disease, and almost literally died at his post, only relinquishing the charge of his party a few weeks before the close of his life. The officers of the survev have testified their regard for his memory in the resolutions which accomp~ny my report. (Appendix No. 44.) Benjamin F. vVest was one of the most promising of the younger members of the survey. Ile returned from Texas last spring unwell, but not seriously so. Going north during the summer, on his return from duty at Mt. Washington he became the victim of the disease which carried him off just as he had arrived at his majority. He had been promoted by the Treasury Department as a sub-assistant after his return from the south. The officers of my party, to which he had usually been attached, have united in expressing their regrets at his untimely fate, and their condolence with his parents, who saw him first on his return from his tour of service in Texas after death had marked him for its victim. (Appendix No. 45.) Daniel L. Bryan, M. D., Passed Assistant Surgeon U. S. Navy, who had been at different times on duty in the survey, arrived in Pensacola in the schooner Morris during the prevalence of the epidemic there, took his position in the Naval Hospital, where his services were tnuch needed, and was himself attacked by the disease and died there. He was an officer of distinguished merit in his profession, and his servic~ were hi~hly prize~ by the parties with wh~ch he _was conn~ted. и Second ASS1stant Engmeer W ashmgton H. Nones and Third .Assistant Engmeer George E. Shock, who also had beeu on duty in the .Gulf of Mexico in the steamer W a.lker, a.n.d. were attached to the survey waiting orders, were also both victims of

Rl:POB.T 01' THB SUPERINTENDENT

the disastrous epidemic-the one at Pensacola and the other on the coast of Mississippi. Both officers had rendered acceptable service in the hydrographic parties of the Coast Survey. и . Before passing to the estima~es, there are two points on which I beg leave to offer remarks: the first is in regard to the policy of publishing the records of the work; and the second in regard to the power now vested in the Treasury Department to regulate the salaries of the assistants and others. . The arrangements of the survey of the coast from the beginning, with ampleи, means to insure a reasonable degree of progress year by year, and with resources in persons, instruments, equipments, and other appliances, such as are now possessed by the work, is a very different problem from that which has been presented for solution. In such a case, it would have been easy to divide the coast into sections of nearly equal extent of shore-line, or with an extent so.proportioned to и the facility or difficulty of survey as to advance each one equally, and so to arrange the field parties that their labors would be devoted, during the most profitable portion of the year, in each section, and the office work, that it would keep exact pace with the results produced in the field. The sections of our work were necessarily commenced in turn as means could be procured, and it is only very recently that most of them have been put under survey. It requires a careful study of their relative progress year by year, and the regulation of operations to suit it in the different sections, to bring them ultimately on the same line of advance. It would be unduly expensive to keep up an organization for a limited extent of coast, which is capable of embracing a large portion of it; hence the prominence which I have given for some years to the argument for pushingи the survey of the coast of Florida, and for publishing the results and observations made in the progress of the work. The unequal division of the parts of the coast suitaq]e for field work during the summer and winter is a difficulty reqJiiring much time to meet. The very different periods at which the work was begun in the different sections is another difficulty. These are independent of the difficulties strictly professional, presented in the course of the work, and which are of themselves sufficient to employ the resources of all engaged in it. I am satisfied by a careful revision of the progress in each of the sections, made with the sketches and maps before me, that the progress in each is tending to a more just advance, and is in general very satisfactory. These sections and operations, when full means have been furnished, have gone forward in such a way a.s to convince the most ~keptioa! of the capabilities of this mode. of. S1;llve1ing. . I need only in~tance the third section-Delaware, Maryland, and V1rgmia-m which the whole pnmary triangulation, the secondary connected with it, and that of the outer coo.st, have been nearly completed in leas than ten years, and the topography and hydrography have kept close upon the triangulation, permitting, now that the main part of the section is finished, its gradual completion with the otheni. While this section illustrates the position just taken, it also shows the correctness of that in relation to unequal progress, for, while the sections further south were untouched for want of means, this one w,as in progress. At one period, the means furnished ,Permitted the extension of the work but in one direction, and at a "later day but in two directions. At present, on the Atlantic .and Gulf coast seven sections are иin full activity. Taking the work on the Atla.ntici andи Gulf of Mexico togethert I estimate that ~t is nearly one half done, and that its present rate of pro~ is between four and SlX per ~nt. of' the whole work. A small focrease Of ~s for the office wor~ and to push forward sections sixи e.nd sevent the 'Florida' reefs, keys, and coast, would enable me to иbe positive of the .peri9Cfи oБthe completion of the ~ ooast. и As ma.ttem s~ I. will и(lo my best to :aooOmplish the result of the

OF THE

UNIT~D

STA.TES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 185S.

17

uniform and speedy completion of the work, recommending the measures necessary to insure it, and ta.king advantage of all means that may be furnished. The history of such works shows ihat the observations accumulated during their progress, and which must be published for permanent reference and to give them authenticity, are brought out very slowly. Those who have taken part in them e.re dispersed, and questions arise which require their aid to answer. However perfectly in theory a work is organized, such questions will arise. The interest in the results is lost, with the responsibility for their accuracy. The present time, when the organization is complew, and the observers are still connected with the work, is the. proper time, on every account, to publish the observations. The economy of present publication would be very considerable. I am .sustained in these views by the judgment of the scientific men of the country generally. It is my duty to present this subject to the department and to Congress, that the responsibility of the delay, and of the other difficulties which I foresee unless these publications be soon commenced, may not rest with me. In this connexion I must further observe that, in a temporary work of this sort, the principle of compensation in proportion to the zeal, assiduity, and talent shownin other words, the services rendered-is a cardinal one. The Treasury Department, by law, now regulates the compensation of the employees of the work, and it is, in my judgment, essential to its progress that such should be the case. That this power has been ca.refully exercised, the comparison of compensations from date to date for the last ten years will show; in fact, at a period when compensations out of the public service are increa.sing, and where increased expenses of living must be met, the economy has been found to be too stringent, es the resignations of many in the employ of the survey, and their advancement in the positions whicli they seek, fully prove. I make these remarks with the more freedom, that the subject does not affect me personally. My own compensation has remained entirely stationa.rr since I first received my appointment, and is now fixed by law. The exteD.Sion of the Coast Survey hBB at least quadrupled my duties as Superintendent, and I have continued to discharge the duties of Superи intendent of Weights and Measures, and have been at the call of the Government whenever it ,thought my services were important, without a.ny remuneration, even for. the necessary expenses of travelling ; and this relation I have no desire to change. My rema.rks apply to the compensation of the Assistants e.nd other employees of the slirvey, and are founded on an experience which cannot be deceptive. To. take away the power of regulating the salaries of the Coast Survey officers from the Treasury Department would be vitally injurious to the efficiency of the work. иA temporary work should be organized, as such; and when other principles are applied to it, the w-0rk under them must take sh.a~ a,coordingly. The legislation.which oon:firmed the re-organization of 184.3 wisely looked to the Coast Snrv~y as temporary, and its advance baa shown .the wisdom of the measures founded OJ,\ that principle~ A e&rdinal fea.ture of that policy is the regulation by the Treasury Department of th~ salaries oБ the employees. The following iS a condensed statement. of the progress of the survey in the ~ent geogra.p)i!J!&l,secti~~ofthe.coeat, the operations being referred to in the ~al order of their f:!Uccesaion. The particula.rs of the work, and their relation tO t\e pa.rties .and pel'SO:N etl\PloyФl, &"e given in the. suboot}u$1t division of my

. ~ltill,,)1~ ~wis~~.JJ ~......и .. ~.P~~<
~:~~::'""ии.: i>~~ ~

r~~11et

Ooaat o.f X.~ NiR,o.,J:ta11M1Jmi're, . 1lfJ81Klehusetfa, and Rhode Ii/and.-

tt_.

e ~~of.lit. Bleeи.extent1aи.~m the

p~~! ~-~~~ eo~}!.!,M&!╗~
. и~. . tu111U&naowOOO~.polJ:l

1;he

18

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

Camden Mountains, at the mouth of the Penobscot, to Peaked Mountain, in Amherst. The reconnaissance has been carried to the range of points next the St. Croix. The heights of important points in New Hampshire, ~nd near the southern boundary of Maine, have been measured. The topography of York harbor, Maine, and its vicinity, has been executed, and that of Portland commenced ; that of the coast of Massachusetts has been extended from Essex northward towards Newburyport; that of Plymouth harbor, Massachusetts, and its approaches, and of Monomoy Point, Cape Cod, has been completed; that of Cuttyhunk and Gay Head lias been finished. The hydrography of Portland harbor has been completed, including a minute survey of Alden's Rock; also, of Plymouth harbor, Massachusetts. Monomoy shoals, north of Nantucket, have been surveyed. The hydrography of the shoals, east and south of Nantucket, has been completed to the inner limits of the deep-sea work; that of the south side of Martha's Vineyard has been executed; that of GloucestQr harbor h3S been commenced. Minute surveys have been made of Minot's ledge, off Boston harbor, and of the Sow and Pigs reef, off the entrance of Buzzard's bay, for the sites of light-houses; and of Deep Hole Rock, for placing a beacon. The regular tidal stations at Boston, Portsmouth, and Portland have been kept up, and temporary stations have been added at Siasconsett, Great Point, and Hyannis, Massachusetts. Views were taken for charts of Salem, Newburyport, and Portsmouth harbors, and examinations have been made in reference to placing surf-boats, for the Treasury Department, on the coast of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine. The computations of the chronometer expedition between Liverpool and Cambridge have been nea;rly completed. The computations of the season's work, generally, have been kept up. The chart of Wellfleet harbor, and sketches of Alden's Rock, Portland harbor, Davis's shoals, and other dangers near Nantucket, (6th edition,) and Sow and Pigs reef, between the entrances to Martha's Vineyard sound and Buzzard's bay, have been published within the year. Charts are in progress of Portsmouth, Newburyport, Annisquam, and Ipswich, Salem, Boston, Muskeget channel, and Ea.stern series Nos. 1, 2, .and 3; and a sketch of Minot's ledge, Boston harbor. SECTION II. Coast of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pen11Sylvania, and Delaware.-The triangulation of the Hudson has been continued to about six miles above Newburgh; and the topography and hydrography have been extended from above New York city to beyond Sing Sing, to Teller's Point. The Romer shoals and their vicinity, New York harbor, have been surveyed in reference to beacons, and to ascertain if Any change hrus taken place in the adjacent channels. Sandy Hook иshore-line has been retTaced to register the changes there. The Jersey ftats have been surveyed. Tidal observations at Governor's island have been continued. The off-shore chart, from Gay Head to Cape Henlopen, the chart of the mouth of the Connecticut river, sketches of Romer and Flynn's shoals, and of the changes in Sandy Hook, have been published i and the three sheets of Long Island sound are nearly ready to be issued_ The charts of south side of Long Island, Nos. 2 and 3, and a comparative map of Romer shoals and Swash cha.nnel, New York harbor, are in
SECTION m. Coast of Delaware, .Maryland, and Virgi"n.w.-Telegraphic observations for differences of longitude have been made at Washington for the connexion with Raleigh, and thence to Charleston. The me.in triangulation of Chesapeake bay has been completed to the Capes. A line of the outer coast triangulation has been IDea.sured, and an azimuth determined for verification. Magnetic observations ha.ve been made in connexion with the azimuth station. The secondary triangulation of the Chesapeake is nearly oomplete; that of the J a.mes river, from Richmond to Ha.nison's bar, nearly so; that {)f the Rappahannock has

progress.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

19

been carried from Fredericksburg to Port Royal nearly, and is in progress. The topography of the ocean shore of .Maryland and Virginia has been continued; that of the Chesapeake has been extended from Back river to Newport-news Pnint, and to include the shores of Hampton Roads. The shore-line of the James river has .been traced from Richmond to Harrison's bar, below the mouth of the Appomattox; that of the Rappahannock, from Fredericksburg to Port Royal, has been commenced. The verification work on the Patapsco is nearly completed. The hydrography of the outer coast of Maryland and Virginia has been completed to Cape Charles ; that of the entrance to the Chesapeake, including both Capes, has been nearly finished; that of the bay, near the entrance, has been in progress. The hydrography of the James river, from Richmond to Harrison's bar, has been completed, and that of the Rappahannock is in progress. The tidal station at Old Point Comfort, Virginia, has been continued, and the tides of James river have been observed from Richmond to City Point. Charts have been published within the year of the seacoast of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, No. 1, and sketches of Ca.pe Charles and vicinity, of W atchaprigue, Metomkin, Pungotigue and Cherrystone inlets, and of Hog Island harbor, Virginia. Charts are in progress of Chesapeake bay, Nos. I, 2, and 3, Patapsco river, .Appomattox river, and part of James river. .A manuscript map of the Appomattox for the city of Petersburg is nearly completed. SECTION IV. Coast of Virginia and North Carolina.-W ashington and Raleigh, North Carolina, and Raleigh and Charleston, have been connected for difference of longitude and connexion of Washington and New Orleans. The secondary triangulation has been extended northward of the Virginia and North Carolina line, in Back bay, Currituck sound, also over Core Bank and sound, southward beyond Bea,ufort harbor, North Carolina, the reconnaissance extending still further south towards New river. The triangulation of Cape Fear river has been made from New inlet to the head of Eagles' island, above Wilmington. The topography of Currituck sound has been carried on at the same time with the triangulation; so also that of Core sound and its vicinity, and of the Cape Fear river. The hydrography of Cape Fear entrance, New inlet, and Cape Fear river, to a point above Wilmington, has been executed. The Gulf Stream ha.s been explored in sections perpendicular to it, from Cape Hatteras and Cape Fear. The tidal observations at Smithville have been continued, and stations for the Cape Fear River tides have been occupied. Charts and sketches have been published within the year of Beaufort harbor, Hatteras inlet (4th edition,) Ocracoke inlet, Cape Fear river, and New inlet ; charts are in progress of Albemarle sound, Nos. I and 2, and of the sa.me in one sheet on a smaller scale. 1. SECTION V. Ooast of South Carolina and Georgia.-A. general reconnaissance has been made from Cape Fear entrance to the Santee river, South Carolina. .Astronomical observations have been continued at the Charleston observatory, which has been connected, for difference of l~gitude, with Raleigh, North Carolina. The primary triangulation between the Edisto base and Charleston has been continued by the opening of lines and the occupation of stations, a.nd the secondary connected with it has been carried along the Stono and across James's island The triangulation, determination of shore-line, and hydrography of Winyah bay and Georgetown harbor, have been made. The triangulation of the Savannah river has been carried from the base on Union causeway to the entrance. Additional. examinations of Charleston bat have been made. The exploration of the Gulf Stream has been continued on a section perpendicular to its direction from Charleston light, and from nea.r Sa.vannah entrance, (St. Simon's,) Georgia. Tidal observations have been kept up in Chairleston harbor. Charts ha.ve been

20

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

published within the year of Cape Roman shoals and North Edisto entrance and river, South Carolina; and charts are iri progress of Charleston harbor, Winyah bay, and Georgetown harbor, of Tybee entrance, and of Savannah river. SECTION VI. Ooast, keys, and reefs of Florida.-The survey of the St. John's entrance and Fort George inlet, including the triangulation, topography, aud hydrography, and the necessary observations of tides and currents, has been made, and furnished to the engineer in charge of the improvement. The triangulation of the Florida keys and reef has been extended from Point Elizabeth, near Carysfort, to Key Tavernier, and from Key West eastward. The topography has been extended from Soldier Key to Old Rhodes Key, and from Key West eastward over Boca Chica, and the marking of the keys required by the Land Office has also been made. The hydrography has been carried from Triumph reef to Turtle reef. The Gulf Stream has been explored in sections from St. ~ugustine and Cape Canaveral, and in other positions from Cape Florida northward. A report on screw-pile signals for the reef has been made. A preliminary sketch of St. John's river entrance and Fort George inlet, and sketches of the west coast of the Florida peninsula, Channel No. 4 Cedar Keys, have been published, and additions have been made to the chart of Key West, scale 1iroиm. A chart of this harbor on a larger scale is in the hands of the engravers, and the chart of Florida Keys and Reef No. 1 is commenced. SECTION VII. Ooast of Florida.-Special reconnaissances, with astronomical points determined, and hydrography, have beeh made of the east and west entrances into St. George's sound, harbor of Apalachicola, and a general reconnaissance of St. Andrew's and St. Joseph's bays, and of the coast westward. Tidal observations at Pensacola have been made. Sketches of Cedar Keys and of St. Mark's harbor, and of the east and west entrances to St. George's sound, and of the reconnaissances of St. Joseph's and St. Andrew's bays, with the coast westward, and those resulting from the past season's work, are in progress. SECTION VIII. Coast of Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.-The reconnaissance for extending the primary triangulation from Lake Borgne to the Delta. of the Mississippi has been made. A general reconnaissance of the coast has been made, with the determination of astronomical positions for a sketch of the coast, from the mouths of the Mississippi to Atchafalaya bay. Special reconnaissances for furnishing preliminary charts have been made of Barataria and Timballier bays, Louisiana. 'fhe stations of the secondary triangulation have been established and the lines opened for connecting Lake Borgne and New Orleans, and for extending the work to nea.r Madisonville, on Lake Pontchartrain. The topography has determined the Shores of Lake Borgne. A complete survey for the location of a light-house, including triangulation, topography, and hydrography, has been made of Last island, (Isle Derniere,) Louisiana, and of Ship shoal m its vicinity. A hydrographic examination ~ Nassau Roads and Horn Island Pass has been made, to ascertain if changes had occurred from the hurricane of 1852; also, of the reported break across Ship island, and of the passage between Little Pelican and Dauphine islands, Mobile bay entrance. The regular hydrography has been carried westward in Mississippi sound, and Pascagoula river entrance has been examined for the site of a light-house. Hourly observations of the tides have been made at the Southwest Pass of the Mississippi and at Last islud. The cha.rt of Horn Island Pass, (2d edition,) preliminary sketches of Mobile bay on a. small scale with additions, and of Ship shoal, have been published: also, . sketches of Grand Pass into Ba.rataria bay1 иentrance to Timballier bay, and Cat island tidal diagrams. Charts a.re in progress of Mobile иb1.y; N\>S. l a.nd 2, Mississippi sound, Nos. 1 and 2, and sketches of NMSa.u roads, Cha.ndeleur island; Louisiana;

'

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.
SECTION IX. Coast of Louisiana and Texas.-.A.stronomical and magnetic observations have been made at two of the primary stations, determining the latitude and the azimuth of certain lines. The reconnaissance for the secondary triangulation has been carried to Matagorda bay, and the work itself has advanced to the head of the bay. The topography has been carried from the Brazos river to Cany creek, near the limits of the triangulation. The hydrography of Galveston upper bay a.nd of San Luis entrance and bay has been completed. Aransas Pass and the entrance to the Sabine have been examined in reference to sites for lighthouses. The hydrography of the Rio Grande entrance and of part of the river has been executed. Hourly tidal observations have been made at Galveston, and at the Rio Grande and Matagorda entrances. Charts of Galveston entrance and San Luis Pass, a preliminary chart of Galveston bay on a small scale, and sketches of Aransas Pass, from a resurvey, and of Sabine Pass, Texas, have been published within the year. SECTIONS X .A.ND XI. Coast of California, and of Oregon and Washington Territorw.-The geographical positions of Punta de los Reyes, Bodega bay,

Haven's anchorage, Mendocino city, Shelter cove, Humboldt city and harbor, Trinidad bay, Port St. George, Port Orford, and the mouth of .the Umquah, have been determined by preliminary observations in connexion with the general hydrographic reconnaissance of the coast. A preliminary base has been measured at Pulgas, San Francisco county, and the main triangulation of the coast has been commenced. The triangulation of the bays adjacent to San Francisco bay has been completed. .A. preliminary base has bl:ien measured near San Pedro, and the triangulation for connecting the Santa Barbara islands with the main, and furnishing bases for the work on those islands, has been commenced. The triangulation of Humboldt harbor, and the coast near Mendocino city, near Crescent City, under Port St. George, and at the mouth of the Umquah, has been executed, and the preliminary topography made in connexion with it. The topography of San Francisco bay proper has been completed, and that of the adjacent bays is in progress. The topography of the coast near San Pedro, and towards Point An-0 Nuevo, ha.S been executed. The topography of Bonita Point has been completed in reference to the site of a light-house there. A hydrographic reconnaissance has been made of the coast north from San Francisco to the Columbia river, and the hydrography of Humboldt harbor, of Mendocino, Trinidad bay, Point St. George, and the mouth of the Umquah, has been executed. .A. survey has also been made of Columbia river entrance, and the hydrographic reconnaissance of Washington Territory has been extended. An examination of Cortez Bank, near San Clemente island, has been ma.de, and the hydrography of the Santa Barbara. islands has been commenced. Tidal stations have been established at San Diego, Monterey, San Francisco, Columbia river, &c. The following maps, charts, and sketches have been completed, and either published within the year or are ready for publication: Reconnaissance cha.rt from San Francisco to San Diego; San Francisco city; Santa. Barbara; Points Conception and Coxo; Catalina harbor ; Cape Mendocino. Reconnaissance from Gray's harbo~ to Admiralty inlet, Stra.its of Fuca, Cape Flattery and Nee-ah harbor, Shoalwater bay, and False Dungeness harbor, Washington Territory; and Cortez Bank, SW. from San Clemente island. Charts are in progress of San Francisco bay and harb01и, of Columbia river, of San Diego bay, and sketches of Umquah river a.nd of Ewing harbor. The foregoing statement does not include the work done in the computing department of the office, nor in the ma.ps of record a.nd assemblage for the use of the survey, nor the sketches -0f progress in the different sections, whieh accompany my &1Dlu&l-report, and are in themselveaquite,numerous.

22

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

I proceed next to give an estimate of the progress of the work, which can be executed, under its present organization,и with the means shown in the same e~timate. If it is desired to hasten the work to completion, there will be no difficulty in so doing by adding to these estimates. I have, however, adopted the scale heretofore approved by the Executive and by Congress. The expenses of the work on the Western coast are not necessarily as great as in past years. I have made a reduction adapted to the present circumstances there. I have already given ~he reasons why the survey should be pressed in Section VII; and without increasmg the total sum asked for the survey of the Atlantic and Western coasts, I have provided for this section. The very pressing matter of a publication of our records, discussed in this and previous reports, and recommended heretofore by the Treasury Department, I have provided for by an estimate, which is of moderate amount. The estimates follow the order of the geographical sections of the coast, and of the different operations constituting the field and office-work. , They suppose the same aid which is now furnished, under the law, from the Navy and War Departments, by the detail of officers for the hydrography and land-work respectively.
ESTIMATE FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 1854-'55.

General e:xpens~s for all the sections, namely: rent, fuel, postage; materials for drawing, engraving, and printing ; carpenter's work and materials ; blank books, stationery, printing and ruling forms; binding; transportation of instruments ; maps and charts, and miscellaneous office expenses; purchase of new instruments, books, maps, and charts . . $16)000 SECTION I. Coast of Maine, New HampBhire, MMsachusethJ, and Rlwde Island. FIELDиWORI<.-To extend the primary triangulation in Maine, and the astronomical and magnetic observations connected with it eastward, to the Penobscot, and to complete the reconnaissance to the boundary, including the selection of a site for the base of verification; to continue the secondary triangulation of Gasco bay, and across to the KenwJJeclt, and determine the heights of stations; to continue the topography of the coast between PorhJmouth and Portland, and to complete that of PorUand harbor and its approaches ; to continue the topography of the coast of Massachusetf:IJ from between Essex and Newburyport northwa.rd; to complete the off-shore hydrography near the Nantucket ahoals; to continue that of Nantucket 80und and the eastern entrance to Martha' 8 Vineyard; to commence that of the outer coast of Gape God; to complete that of the coast of Massachuse'/b between Boswn and Cape Ann; to complete that of the harbors of Ohatharn and Glouces-ter, Massachusells, and of Saco and Kennebunk, Maine; and to commence that of Casco bay, Maine; to continue observations of tides and currents at stations on the coast; and to ta.ke the views required for the chart of /iortland. OFFICE-WORK.To make the reductions and computations for the section; to make dra.wings of harbor charts of Plyrrwuth and Gloucester, Jlasaachusetf,s, a.nd of York and Portland, Maine; to make e. finished dra.wing of the Namuclcet ohoals; to complete the engraving of charts. of иthe harbors of Gloucesf;er, .Annisquam, and Ipswich, Massachu.setia, and to commence that of Yurk and Portland, Maine; to continue the engraving of coast charts, Eastern series Nos. 1, 2, and 3, coast of .Rhode Ismnd &lld Ma88ackmetfll-will require и 37>000,

OF THE UNITED ST.A.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

23

II. Coast of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Penn~ylvania, and Delaware.-To continue the triangulation, topography, and hydrography of the Hudson, and to execute verification work in the section; to continue observations of tides and currents; to continue the engraving of the third sheet of the south side of Long Island, and of preliminary sketches in the section-will require SECTION III. Coast of Delaware, Maryland, and Virgina. Frnw-wonK.To make the astronomical and magnetic observations required at stations on the Chesapeake bay and rivers; to continue the triangulation of the James and Rappahannock rivers; to continue the topography of the lower part of Chesapeake bay, and of the James and Rappahannock rivers, and of the outer coast of .Jiaryland and Virginia j to commence the off-shore hydrography of the section; to continue that of the Chesapeake bay and of the adjacent bays near the entrance; to continue that of the James and Rappahannock rivers. 0FFICE-WORK.-To make the computations and reductions required by the work of the section ; to commence the drawing of the seacoast of Maryland and Virginia, sheet No. 2; to complete that of sheet No, 1, and that of the second series, south of the Potomac, and to continue that of the James and Rappahannock rivers; to continue the engraving of the upper series of the Chesapeake, Nos. 1 and 2, and of a portion of the rivers, and to complete that of the general chart of the bay; and to engrave, in part, No. 2 of the outer coast series-will require SECTION IV. Coast of Virginia and North Oa1иolina. FIELD-WORK-To continue the primary triangulation of Pamplico sound; to make the connexion with the Chesapeake by the secondary triangulation, <1.nd to follow with the topography, and to continue that of the coast and the topography between Beaufort and the Cape Fear river; to continue the in-shore hydrography between Cape Henry and Cape Hatteras; to continue that of Pamplico sound; to extend the hydrography south from Beaufort and north from the Cape Fear; to continue the tracing of the Gulf Stream; to make the necessary tidal observations. 0FFICEWORK.-To make the computations and reductions required by the work of the section; to make the drawings of the preliminary sketches required by the season'sи work; to complete the drawing of Cape Fear river to the head of Eagles' 'island j to continue the engraving of the charts of Albemarle Bound, Nos. 1 and 2, of Cape Fear entrance and river, and of the preliminary sketches-will require . SECTION V. Cowst of South Carolina and Georgia. FIELDиWORK.-To continue the primary triangulation, and the secondary triangulation connected with it, eastward between Charleston and Bull's bay, and to make the necessary astronomical and magnetic observations; to extend the secondary triangulation south of Tybee entrance, and over St. Mary's entrance and river, and Brunswi"ck harbor j to extend the topography ea.st from Oha:rletJwn harbor, and south from Tybee, following the triangulation; to continue the hydrography of the ocean coast between Oharl,est,rm and Savannah entrances, from Georgetown enflrance south, to include Roman shoals, and of St. Mary's harbor/ to continue the exploration of the Gulf Stream in this section, and to continue the tida.l. observations at Oharleswn, Savannah, and along the coast of the section. OFF1cE-WORK.-To complete the drawings of Wmyah bay a.nd Ge<rrgefJJwn karbur, of Savannah river entrance, of
SECTION

$7,000

25,000

24,000

24

REPORT OF TltE SUPEBINTENDEl'iT

St. Mary's harbor, and of the sketches required by the season's work, and to commence the drawing of the seacoast of South Carolina, south of Charle,ston entrance; to complete the engraving of Charleston harbor; to commence that of Winyah bay and Georgetown harbor, and of Savannah entrance and river-will require . . . . . . $25,000 SECTION VI. Reefs, keys, and coast of FlorБda.-(See estimate for usual appropriation for that special object.) SECTION VIL Coast of FWrida. FIELDиWORK.-To make the triangulation of St. .Andrew's and St. Joseph's bays, and the necessary astronomical and magnetic observations connected with it; to continue that of Apalachicola karbo1и and of St. Harles, and the adjacent coast, and to commence that of Pensacola ; to complete the topography of the Cedar keys and adjacent coast, and to commence that of St. Andrew's bay and St. George's sound; to complete the hydrography of the Cedar keys and Crystal river offing; to commence that of St. Andrew's bay, St. George's sound, and St. Harks. 0FFICE-WORK.-To make the necessary drawings of preliminary sketches, and to engrave them; to complete the drawing and commence the engraving of the coast sheet, including the Cedar keys and Crystal river offing; to commence the drawings of the harbors and parts of the coast-will require . . 23,000 SECTION VIII. Coast of Alabama, Mi,ssi,ssippi, and Louwiana. FIELDи WORK.-To complete the general reconnaissance of this coo.5t; to continue the primary triangulation towards the Delta of the Mwswsippi; the secondary of the coast from the entrance to Lake Borgne, southward along theи group of Ohandeleur wlands, towards the Mwswsippi; to complete the telegraphic connexion of Washington, Mobile, and New Orkart11, for difference of longitude ; to make the astronomical and magnetic observations required in connexion with the triangulation; to continue the preliminary surveys of the more important bays west of the Mississippi; to continue the topography of the coast a.nd shores of Lake Pont.chartrain, and of the Ohandeleur islands; to complete the hydrography of Mississippi sound, and to continue that of Louis,iana bay j to continue the in-shore and off-shore work south of the islands bounding Mwsissippi sound; to continue the hydrography of the approaches of the Mississippi~ and to make the necessary tidal observations on the coast of Louisiana. 0FFICEиWORK.-To make the computations and reductions required by the work of the section; to make the drawings of Mississippi sound, No. 2; to commence one of the sheets o.f New Orleans and its approaches; to complete the engraving of the chart of Mobile bay; to continue that of Mississippi sound, No. I; to complete the engraving of sketches of .Atcluifalaya, Oote Blanche, and Vermilion bays, and of the sketches required by the season's work-will require . . . . . . . и . и и и 2'7,000 SECTION IX. Coast of Louisiana and Te;a:,as. FIELD-WORK.-To make particular reconnaissances for the main triangulation ; to extend the main triangulation southward and westward, and to make the astronomical and magnetic observations connected with it; to execute the secondary triangulation and topography of .Matagorda and Lavaca bayB, &nd to complete the triangulation, topography, a.nd hy. drogmphy at the mouth of the Rio Grande; to execute the hydrograph.y, in-shore and off-shore, from. GalvMfl:n?, southward and westward ; jfo. commence that of Mal:ago'l'da .hag. OmdE-wo:u.-To make the reductions s.nd

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

25

computations required for the section; to complete the drawing of Bast and West bays in connexion with the chart of Galveston bayj to commence the drawing of the coast sheet south of Gafoeston j to make the drawing of the Rio Grande entra1-.ce j to engrave the preliminary sketches required; to continue that of Galveston, and Brut and lVest bays, and to commence that of the Ri"o Grande entrance-will require $22t000 SECTIONS X .A.ND XI.- TVestern coast, California, Or-egon, and llrasltington. (See estimate provided for, as last year, by special appropriation.) Total, exclusive of Florida reefs and keys, and of Western coast . . 206,000 The estimate for the Florida coast, reefs, and keys, and for the Western coast, is intended to accomplish the following named results: SECTION VI. Reefs, keys, and coa.st of Florida. FrnLD-WORK.-To continue the general reconnaissance of the coaet; to continue the triangulation of the Florida reefs outside, and keys from Tennessee reef towards Key West, and of the keys east of Boca Ohi'ca, and to continue that of Barnes' sonnd j to extend the topography of the keys from Key Rodriguez westward; to continue the hydrography of the reef southward and westward ; to execute that of Key Biscayne bay and Gard's sound, and to continue the Gulf Stream examinations necessary. 0FFICE-WORK.-To complete the computations and reductions required by the work of the section; to make the drawings and sketches of harbors and shoals from the previous season's work; to complete the drawing of Key We,st chart, (large scale,) and of sheet No. 1 Fwrida keys and reefs; to continue the engraving of Key иwest chart; to commence that of Flori"da reefs and keys No. 1, and to engrave the sketches and preliminary charts-will require 30,000 SECTIONS X .A.ND XI. California, Oregon, and Washingwn. FIELD-WORK. To continue the determinations of geographical positions, absolute and relative, of capes, headlands, &c., and to determine the position of the forty-ninth parallel on the coast; to complete the triangulation of the и Strait,.s of Karquirws, Suisun bay, &c. ; to continue the main triangulation of the coast north and south of San Francisco bay, and to follow the triangulation with the topography; to continue the triangulation and topography of the several harbors ; to continue the triangulation of the Columbia river and of Puget's sound; to complete the hydrography of San Francisco entrance; to continue that of San Pablo and adjacent bays; to continue the hydrographic reconnaissance of the Straits cf Puca, P-uget's sonnd, &c., of the harbors of the coast, and of Santa Barbara channel. OI'FICE-WeRK.-To make the computations of geographical positions and others required by the work ; to complete the drawing and engraving of revised reconnaissance and harbor charts; to commence the drawing of San Francisco bay and its appendices; of Oolumbfa river, and of the Santa Bmиbara islands; to continue the engraving of San Francisco bay and of Columbia river; to commence that of the Santa Barbara islands, and new harbors and anchorages developed ; to reduce and engrave the sketches resultil?-g from the previous season's work, and from current work-иwill require 130,000 The total aroonnt appropriated fm the Eastern and West.cm coasts for the fiscal

year 1853-'54 was the same which is now asked for these иobjects, the distribution
4

26

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

being different for reasons stated. The additional sum of twenty thousand dollars is rcq uired fox: the publication of the records and observations of the survey. The items are as follows: . $206,000 1. For the coast of the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico generally . 2. For publishing the records of the work and the observations made 20,000 during its progress . 30,000 3. For continuing the survey of the reefs, keys, and coast of Florida . 4. For continuing the survey of the coast of California, Oregon, and Washington . . . . . 130,000 5. For fuel and quarters, and for mileage or transportation for officers and enlisted men of the army serving on the Coast Survey, in cases no longer provided for by the Quartermaster's Department 10,000 The appropriations for the fiscal year 1853-'54 were186,000 1. For the coast of the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico generally 30,000 2. For the Florida reefs, keys, and coast . 150,000 3. For the Pacific coast . 10,000 4. For fuel and quarters, &c., for officers and men of army, as above .
SECTION !.-FROM PASSAMAQUODDY BAY TO POINT JUDITH, INCLUDING THE COAST OF MAINE, NEW HAMPSHIRE, MASSACHUSETTS, AND RHODE ISLAND. (SKETCH A.)

Very satisfactory progress has been made in this section during the year. Besides the regular operations of the work, several special examinations and surveys for the Light-house Board have been made. Eight parties have been engaged during the season : one in primary triangulation ; one in reconnaissance and secondary triangulation; one in secondary triangulation and measurement of heights; three in topography, one of which was a double party; and two in hydrography, both parties employing two vessels and a tender. Two points in the main triangulation, Mount Sebattis and Mount Blue, have been occupied, at the former of which astronomical and magnetic observations were made. The reconnaissance for the further extension of this triangulation has been carried to near the boundary, and one or two locations for a proposed base of verification have been examined. An interesting series of observations for the determination of heights by the different m.ethods of levelling, barometrical measurements, boiling-point apparatus, and by the measurement of zenith distances, have been made; and, in connexion with them, others, having special reference to obtaining the co-efficient of refraction over cultivated fields, woodlands, and water. Several points on the sea-shore were occupied for the last purpose, a11 of which were referred, by the several means above mentioned, to the permanent tide-gauge at Portsmouth, New Hampshire. The topography of Portland harbor has been continued, and that of York harbor, Maine, exccutedo; that of Essex and Ipswich harbors, of Gay Head and part of Martha's Vineyard, of Cuttyhunk, of Plymouth, and Monomoy Point, Massachusetts, has been executed. The important work of tho survey of the Nantucket shoals has been completed to deep water, and unfinished portions of former hydrography filled in. Deep-sea soundings have been run out from Old South shoal, and the hydrography of the south side of Martha's Vineyard, of Plymouth, Gloucester, Marblehead, and Lypn harbors, Massachusetts, and of York and J>ortland harbors, Maine, has been executed. Minute surveys of York harbor, Maine, Minot's ledge, Cohasset rocks, Sow and Pigs, Cuttyhunk, and Deep Hole rock, Cotuit, Massa~hussetts, have been made for light-house purposes. The position of a shoal lying about ninety miles east of Boston has been determined. A ridge ~onnecting New South. shoal and Davis' Bank, a smn'fl bank tb the cast of Great Rip; and Ii tt1ck 1n t'he li.u:tbo'r of Glb11trellt~r,

OF THE UNITED s"r.A.TES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 186:1.

27

have been among the discoveries of the season. Examinations and arrangements were made for the location of several life surf-boats along the coast. Yiews of Salem, Newburyport, and Portsmouth harbors, were taken. Tidal observations have been continued at Nantucket, Hyannis, Boston, Portsmouth, and Portland, and have been made at Gloucester. The efforts to obtain tidal observations on the seaward side of Na11tncket have at last been succes:-iful, a IJipe having been laid from deep water to the inner part of the beach, and a tide-gauge connected with it. The chart of vVellfleet, and sketches of Alden's rock, Portland harbor, Davis' shoals and other dangers near N antuckct, and Sow and Pigs rocks, Cutty hunk, have been published; and charts of Pcrrtsrnouth, Newburyport, Ipswich, Salem, Boston, :Muskeget channel, (Eastern series, Nos. 1, 2, and 3,) and sketch of Minot's ledge, Boston harbor, have been in progress. Reconnaissance.-The reconuaissance for the extension of the primary trianguи lation ea;,,tward was continued last October by Assistant C. 0. Boutelle, accompanied by Bvt. Major Henry Prince, U. S. Army, assistant in the Coast Survey, and several schemes for the continuation of the work were presented. During the past season Mr. Boutelle and .Major Prince have pushed the reconnaissance eastward to near the boundary, and determined the practicability of the lines between Mount Desert, Humpback, Moose a bee, and vVestern ridge, in Cooper, forming a quadrilateral well adapted to the continuation of the work. I have selected from the various schemes developed by this reconnaissance that on Sketch A, No. 1, as best fulfilling all conditions. It requires but eigl1t stations, besides those to connect with a base of verification, to reach the boundary. On the British side of the frontier two stations, Grand Menan and Chamcook Mount, near St. Andrews, are visible from the last range of points. While prosecuting this reconnaissance, which occupied from September 12 to October 6, examinations were made of two sites, with reference to the selection of a locality for a base of verification, but neither appeared satisfactory, and further reconnaissance for this object will be made during the next season. .Mr. Boutelle and Major Prince were accompanied in this work by Sub-Assistant B. Huger, jr. On the 6th of October, after the selection of the points above given, Major Prince commenced preparations for continuing his reconnaissance in Section V, and making that in Section VI, between the St. Marys and Cape Florida, and on the western coast of the Florida peninsula, for which he is under instructions. и Primary triangulation.-In June last the party under my immediate charge, engaged in the extension of the primary triangulation eastward, returned to this section, and on the 18th of that month commenced the occupation of Sebattis mountain, Kennebec county, Maine. (See Sketch A, No. 1.) This station was finished on the 16th of August, during which time eleven horizontal angles were measured by six hundred and thirty (630) observations, with the thirty-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 1, (Troughton and Simms;) one hundred and thirty-nine vertical angles for difference of height, with the micrometer of the same instrument, and twenty-one for absolute elevation, with ten-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 63, (Gambey ;) sets of four repetitions being used. This triangulation covers an area, estimated in the usual manner, of three thousand and eight (3,008) square miles: its longest triangle side is about ninety-three miles, and its shortest twenty-seven. For azimuth and connexion with the triangulation, two hundred and forty-uine observations were made with the thirty-inch theodolite. The stars observed were Polaris., at upper and lower culminations and eastern elongation, and one thousand and seven (l,007) in the Greenwich twelve-year catalogue, at ,,иestern elongation. . I was assisted in a part of these observations by Assistant J. E. Hilgard, who

28

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

made the greater part of the obserrntions for latitude and time, at the station, in connexion with the triangulation. These consis~ed, for time, of obser.vations of sixty-five transits with the thirty-six-inch transit in.strument, C. S. No. 9, (V\Turdemann;) aucl for latitude, of o!Jservations with zenith telescopes Nos. 1 and 2, (Troughton and Simms,) of twenty-seven pairs of stars with both instruments, and observations upon eight pair::; with instrument No. 1, indepemlently, and upon seven pairs with No. 2. The whole number of observations amounted to two hundred and seventeen i and the average number taken with one instru-и, mcnt upon a pair of stars was three. Two determinations of the value of the micrometer were made for each instrument. Mr. Hilgard was assisted in these observations by .M.r. J. G. Oltmans, making part of the observations, and Mr. S. Harris. A meteorological register was kept by Mr. James Searles, jr., at this station, in which one hundred and twenty-three observations of the barometer and \vet and dry bulb thermometers were recorded. A curious fact of personal equation in the use of the zenith telescope was observed at this station, and will be followed up in future observations. Remarkable local attraction at the immediate station at .Mt. Sebattis prevented the observations for magnetic declination, dip and intensity, and they were consequently made at a station about half a mile distant. These were made by Assistant J. E. Hilgard, aided by Messrs. Oltmans and Harris, and consisted of observations on three days for declination, of two sets of expedments of vibration and deflection, for absolute horizontal intensity, with cleclinometer C. S. No. 2 j of six sets of observations of dip, with a ten-inch Gambey dip circle. Upon the completion of this station, on 19th of August, the party was transferred to Mount Blue, Franklin county, Maine, to occupy that point in the primary triangulation, and the station was ready for the observations on the 25th of August. These were not commenced, on account of the unfavorable state of the weather, until the 29th, and from the same cause were not completed when the operations were closed, on the 22d of November. At this time :Mount Blue and the adjacent mountains were almost constantly, during the day time, surrounded by clouds, preventing the possibility of observing at any considerable distance. Up to that date twelve horizontal angles were measured by four hundred and two observations, with _the thirty-iIIch theodolite,~- S. No. 1, (Troughton and Simms.) This triangulation covers an area, computed in the usual way, of eight hundred and twenty.nine square miles. The height of the mountain was determined by the two methods-by levelling and barometrical measurement. Observations with mountain barometers were simultaneously made at the summit of the mountain and at its base, half-hourly for five hours, and then in connexion at Avon pond and Bates' tavern, in Avon township, the place at which Dr. Jackson set out in his determination of the same elevation in 1838 or '39, every ten minutes for one hour. Similar observations were made simultaneously at the self-registering tide station in J?ortland, and at the base of the mountain half-hourly for five hours. The barometms were compared at the base before the commencement of the above by. half-hourly observations for five hours. The total number of these sets of observations was seventy-six, in connexion with each of which the temperature and evaporatin3' point were observed. These observations were conducted with great care by Assistant George A. Fairfield and Lieut. A. W. E-mns, U. S. Army, assistant-the latter making the observations at the base of the mountain, and Mr. Fairfield those at the other points. The height of the mountain was also determined by }fr. ~hos. McDonnell, by

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY }'OR 1853.

29

levelling from the summit rock to the spot where the above obserrntions were made at J;he base, and from thence to the pond, the point there being marked ou a prominent rock. Meteorological observations were made at the base and summit simultaneously throughout the time of occupation of this station, in ea(иh of whiC'h were registereиd two hundred and forty-nine observations of the wet and dry bulb thermometers, and Alexander and aneroid barometers. Mr. Dean assisted in all the geodetic observations, and had special charge of the station and instrument, involving much responsibility and hardship, which he cheerfully sustained. Secondary triangulation.-Captain T. J. Cram, U. S. Topographical Engineers, assistant in the Coast Survey, who had been engaged during the winter in the reduction and computations of his triangulation of the season previous, resumed field work on the 20th of June, to continue the determination of the heights of several stations of his triangulation, by the different methods of observing reciprocal zenith distance by the barometer and by levelling. The extremities of these lines have been occupied in the observation of reciprocal, simultaneous and separate zenith distances, with a view to obtain the co-efficient of refraction for long, short, and medium distances across water. The e:li:tremities of one other line were occupied in a similar manner ; the line levelled and distanced, and intermediate points occupied in a variety of ways, to obtain, if possible, data for the co-efficient of refraction over cultivated fields a.nd woodland. Another scheme embraced a line upon a sand beach, covered at high and bare at ]ow water. Seven stations wete thus occupied; simultaneous and reciprocal observations being made upon each other, upon other stations in sight, and upon the sea. horizon, at dete1иminate stages of the tide, in several positions. One thousand one hundred and seventy-four (1, 174) vertical angles. and twenty-five horizontal angles were measured. With two mountain barometers simultaneous observations have been made, at various heights above the level of the sea, in number amounting to one thousand two hundred and thirty-four, (1,234,) and of corresponding thermometric observations two thousand four hundred and sixty-eight, (2,468.) Severa). points, as before remarked, have been A~nected with lines of levels, and Mt. Washington, the highest peak of the Whit ountains, and on the Atlantic coast, was levelled from the summit to the Atlantic and St. Lawrence railroad summit-a total elevation of five thousand :five hundred feet. This range was divided into steps _of five hundred feet: one of these steps was sub-divided into steps of one hundred, and one of these into steps of ten feet. On all tbe:;e points observations were made with barometer, thermometer, and boiling-point apparatus. This last apparatus was used, besides, in the observations at Mt. Washington, at seven different harbors on the coa..qt, and on sixteen different stations of the Coast Survey triangulation; the elevations of which have been determined heretofore by other methods. One hundred and twenty-four observations were made with this instrument. In connexion with the above, special observations of tides have been made of four stations, with a view of obtaining the mean level of the sea simultaneously with the zenith distance observations. It is expected to deduce from this extensive and careful series of observations, important data for the co-efficient of refraction under different circumstances, and in relation to the relative advantages in accuracy, time, and other particulars of the different modes of measuring heights. Since his return from the field, Capt. Cram has been engaged in the computation of the results of his season's labor.

30

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

Topography.-Assistant H. L. Whiting, after the close of his work of revision on the Patapsco, noticed in my report of last year, was engaged in inking several sheets of his previous field-work (in Sections I, III, and Y) until the 24th of May, when he received instructions for the season's operations in Section I. 'J hese were commenced at Cuttyhunk (see Sketch A, No. 5) on the 4th of June, for the purpose of showing, in detail, the topography of the southern part of the island and the " Sow and Pigs" rocks, upon which it is proposed to erect a light-house, and to furnish the shore-line and positions to the hydrographic party charged with the minute examination of the rocks and selection of a site for the light-house. This work was completed on the 14th of June; after which, until the 24th of that month, the party was occupied in the re-establishment of points on the south side of Martha's Vineyard (see Sketch A, No. 1) for the use of the hydrographic party, rendered necessary by the rapid wear of the cliffs there by the ocean. Mr. Whiting says, in regard to the Nashaquitsa (or Wequobsky) cliffs: "The highest cliffs on Martha's Vineyard are the ' W equobsky cliffs,' called by Mr. Eakin 'Nashaquitsa cliffs,' on the highest point of which he put his triangulation station. This part of the south shore of the island is rather remarkable, from the fact that these cliffs draw in and form quite a cove, showing that the shore is washed away more at this point than any other, although the cliffs .are one hundred and fifty feet high. "When the signal was first put up in 1844 or '45, it was placed twenty-five feet from the edge of the cliff. Last year I went with Lieut. McBlair to show him where the signal was, and found it had been washed away. I noted a large rock, some ten or twelve feet back from the edge of the cliff, as a landmark at the time, and I now find this stone has been reached and has rolled down the cliff. My new station is about sixty feet inside the old point, and thirty-eight feet from the present edge of the cliff, making the encroachments of the sea upon these cliffs, of one hundred and fifty feet in height, some fifty feet ( 50) in mиne years. This encroachment continues for some miles to the westward on the south side of the island. I found the beach washed in at 'Chilmark Pond station' about twenty or twentyfive feet, but this becomes less and less, until at the extreme southeast end of the island the shore seems to have increased, if anything; there is, however, not much change. . "As these and the Gay Head !iffs are quite known landmarks in this section of our coast, 1 thought these changes quite interesting facts." и It may be worth inquiry whether some effective means should not be adopted to preserve these landmarks. Thence the party proceeded to the survey of the vicinity of Gay Head, (see Sketch A, No. 1,) which was finished on the 14th of July. On the height of Gay Head cliffs Mr. Whiting remarks : "I find the Gay Head cliffs not so high as supposed. Prof. Hitchcock calls them one hundred and fifty feet, which they are generally considered, but they are only from one hundred and twenty to one hundred and thirty-five feet high. There is one small knoll, not on the edge of the cliff, which is one hundred and forty-five feet. The lantern of the light-house I make about one hundred and sixty-seven feet. All these heights are from mean low water. The highest land is near the middle of the Head, and is about one hundred and eighty.five feet." . . Upon the completion of this work Mr. Whiting transferred his party to the vicinity of Cape Ann, resuming the topography from the limits of the last season, and carrying it northward as far as Rowley river, including part of the harbor of Essex and that of Ipswich. (See Sketch A, No. 1.) The operations of this party

Ol' THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR JS53.

31

were closed on the 10th of October, this last work having occupied until that time from the 25th of July. The statistics of Mr. Whiting's work of the season are given in the following table:

- . , . . -ииииии ииииии иииии и ииииии и.. ии и иии иии иии иии . и и и и и ии и . и . и .

-"~ :~'
;,,

Milee of shore-line.

mikи 1

14! 40

On the character of the topography of this region, Mr. Whiting makes some interesting remarks, which I give: и " The country surveyed this season ha.s been quite varied. The rocky and broken character of Cape Ann seems to change very abruptly at about Essex river; the masses of rocks, with their pine and cedar growth, disappear entirely, and the country has a soft and fertile appearance ; the hills are remarkably smooth and undulating, and arc scattered in quite distinct peaks or mounds, sometimes separated by tracts of marsh or quite level upland. These hills, within tbe limits of my survey, range from about two hundred to one hundred and twenty feet in height. The immediate shore is also quite different from that of Cape Ann and Massachusetts bay, being more like our southern coast. The long beach and sand-hills of Plum island, with the sound and marshes behind it, is not unlike the coast of North Carolina, and with the same hydrographic characteristics, as the shifting bars of Jpswich and Essex rivers, with their shallow channels, plainly show." .A.bout the middle of October this party was transferred from this section to Section III, to continue the work of revision on the Patapsco, in which it is now и engaged. The topographical sheet of Casco bay and of Portland harbor, Maine, upon which Assistant A. W. Longfellow was engaged in the latter part of 1852, and of which the statistics were given in my report of that year containing his work, joined on its southern boundary that of Richmond Island narbor, whichи was executed in 1850. It embraces the shore to the northward and westward of that sheet from the light-house on the eastern extremity of Cape Elizabeth to Spurwink river, four miles and a half; thence to the Portland light, situated on Portland Head, a distance of four miles; and thence two miles in a west..wardly direction. (See Sketch A, No. 1.) The character of the topography on this sheet, and of the region in its vicinity, is thus given by Assistant Longfellow in an extract from his report: "The character of the topography is moulded directly upon that of the geological formation which characterizes this region and the coast of Maine generally. This is a slate formation, with a stratification so much inclined with the horizon as to become nearly vertical. Its prevailing character is micaceous; though of so highly metamorphic a type as to pass in many localities into talcose or chlorite slate and other modifications. It presents to the most casual observer1 in its external character, the strongest indications of having been greatly altered by heat. The genera.I direction of the strata is northeast and southwest, OB shown upon the map in the shore section; and in the contours of the interior, equally numerous trap dikes intersect the strata, following the direction of its stratification, the most ri:tna';rka.ble example being just tO the sauthwa:rd of the Portland light, and rm

32

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

large as to be showll. upon the map. This dike having been worn away by the weather and the sea, has left a canal with vertical walls, through which the sea rushes at high tide. '' From the varied character of the rocks results an inequality of hardness : the softer and more friable portions, yielding readily to the power of the elements, are worn down and washed away, leaving small valleys or depressions between; the harder rocks extending generally in the direction of the strata. These give the characteristic form to the relief of the ground, the rock being generally but thinly covered with soil, and in many places entirely bare. In these reaches the decomи posed rock forms a rich and warm soil, which affords the best arable land on the cape. "In the wooded and uncultivated parts, back from the shore, these depressions, not being drained, form swamps and morasses, generally covered with alder bushes. " The prevailing forest growth on the Cape is the double or black spruce; some hickory and oak are found, and an occasional shrub of red cedar, which here reaches nearly its northern limit of growth." Mr. Longfellow has, during the past season, been engaged in the topography of York harbor, Maine, including Cape Neddick and Boone island. This was commenced on the 13th of July, and continued until the 3d of September, when his immediate party was transferred to Portland harbor, leaving the completion of the York harbor sheet with Sub-Assistant A. S. Wadsworth. This was finished on the 1st of October, and comprises within its limits an area of nine (9) square miles, and an extent of shore line of thirty-three and a half (33i) miles. Boone island was determined by a detached survey, in iиegard to which Mr. Longfellow says: "Boone island, lying too remote from the shore to connect with the triangulation points on the main land, was determined by a detached survey. It is a mass of granite, destitute of soil, reaching, in its highest part, hardly twenty feet above the tide, which breaks over it during storms. There is a reef of rocks lying off its northwest end, and another extending out from its southeasterly point." The shore-line determined by this party was furnished to the hydrographic officer, who immediately followe,!l in the execution of that portion of the survey. The work in Portland harbor was commenced by Assistant Longfellow upon his withdrawal from York harbor, and is now in progress. U pan the completion of the reductions and computations of his work in Section VIII, during the winter, Assistant S. A. Gilbert was instructed to survey the harbor of Plymouth, Massa.ehusetts, and Monomoy island, off the southern extremity of Cape Cod. (See Sketch A, No. 1.) The first of these surveys was commenced on July 5, and up to the 1st of October two mieets were nearly completed, emи bracing, of work done, an area of twenty-seven (27) square miles, and an extent of shore-line of thirty-five (35) miles. On these sheets are included Duxbury beach, the Gurnett, and Clark's island. The survey of Monomoy Point was commenced on the 24th of September, and up to the date of his repoit Mr. Gilbert had completed the survey of five square miles of area, and of fourteen miles of shore-line. In this survey the positions of the new light-house, of the light-vessel on Pollock rip and Shovelful shoals, and of the buoys on the several neighboring shoals, were determined. It was found that the inlet at the north end of the island had closed up, in a degree, since the former survey, and a new one opened to the north of Chatham light, which had become the principal entrance to that harbor. Since the completion of the above work, Mr. Gilbert has received instructions fgr

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAS'I'> SURVEY FOR 1853.

33

the continuation of his triangulation in Section VIII, for which he is now ma.king preparations. . и Hydrograplzy.-Two hydrographic parties have been occupied in this section during the past season, under the charge of Lieuts. Comg. H. S. Stellwagen and M. Woodhull, U. S. Navy, assistants in the Coast Survey. The former party had the steamer Bibb and a tender, .and, during a part ofи the time, the steamer . Corwin; the latter, the schooners Madison and Gallatin, and a tender. The first work of Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen's party was the minute survey of Minot's ledge and adjacent rocks, Cohasset, near Bol:lton harbor, (see Sketch A, Nos. 1 and 3,) for the purpose. of the site forиa light-house. To obtain the proper information, in an engineering point of view, in regard to the feasibility of erecting a light-house on these rocks, Captain H: W. Benham, of the Corps of Engineers, assistant in charge of the Coast Snr:vey Office, accompanied Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen. An eligible position, selected by these officers, was indicated up~m the chart forwarded to the department in my letter of 21st November, enclosing the report of Lieu.t. Comg. Stellwagen upon this survey, and which is given in Appendix Na. 48. Next in succession was :the filling up df the space of unfinished hydrography-to the northeast and southwest of Davis' South shoal, (see Sketch A, No. 4 ;) next, of that unfinished portion to 'the northeast of Great Rip, extending the soundings out to twenty-six fathoms; these additions completing the hydrography of the Nantucket shoals to deep water. The party next proceeded to Martha's Vineyard, and carried out the 1 hydr6~raphy from No-:Man s Land to the eastern end of the islanq, (see Sketch A, No. 1,) and ran lines of off-shore soundings to a distance of fifteen miles иrrom the beach. A line of deep-sea soundings was the:Q run to the distance of seventy-five miles from the west bu-0y onи Davis'иSouth shoal (see Sketch A, No. 4,) until no bottom was had, with a line of one hundred and sixty fathoms.и The course going out was south, by compass, and returning north by west. Additional lines of soundings were also run out a distance of forty miles southwest of Davis' shoal. These were finished on the 28th of September, since which time Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen has made a supplementary report of the co!llpletion of the survey of Gloncester harbor, and of the 9ntside work from Cape Ann, Thatcher's island,. to near Manchester; joining the work of Salem harbor. (See Sketch A, No.~ l) The hydrography between Marblehead and Lynn concluded the excellent seasons work of this .party, on the 28th. of October, when they were driven in by storm&, which were becoming so frequent and severe asи to render it impraciicable to continue longer, and having very.nearly <:ompletedиtlie entire work directed in the season's instructions.. . . . ~. . In addition to the foregoing work, Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen has made examinations and selected .locations for a portion of tpe life surf-boats provided by Congress for.the coast eas.t of.Long Island sound. His report on these selections was transmitted to the department on the 18th of-November, and will be found in Appendix No. 10 of this report. During the work of this party.severfi, interesting. discoveries and developments have been made. In sounaing northeast s.nd southwest.of Davis South shoal, a rid~ was found between. the southern end of Davis' . b&nk and the New South sho&l, ha.ving four and.~. a. half to five fathoms on it. In making the soundings northeast of Great Rip, .a. snia.11 h_a.nk or knoll was found with but five fathoms on it, ~u:t fi.'9'eи miles east of Great' Rip, and with twelve to thirteen _betweenи it and. DaV:iS' and Fis1iing Rips, the :Wit.ter gia.dnally deepening outside to the northward auiиl~vd beyond the limits of the series of shoals. In the survey of Gloucester bljiil)o,r.iumall :rock, coming- to.a .Jrinll&Gle at a.bout seven or eight.feet frOm the sur1

6

34

REPORT OF. THE SUPERINTENDENT

face at low water, was determined accurately in the inner harbor. This rockиis not indicated upon any existing chart. While the party was at work in this harbor one of the vessels was despatched in searchи of the shoal reported to be about ninety miles east of Boston, and. to which my attention was called by George W. Blunt, Esq., of N~w York, who gave me the approximate position of the shoal. This was found very little to the northward of иthe specified spot, and where deep water is shown on the chart. It is a small knoll between Cashe's ledge and Fippenies bank, and probably a part of one or the other of them. It lies about eight miles southwest of shoal water on the chart There were found thirty-six fathoms on it, the charts placing ninety-five fathoms as th.e soundings in this locality. The report of the determinatioii of the position of this shoal has been published, and is now appended to this report. (See Appendix No. 12.) .. и The statistics of the work of this party are given in the followins- table:
Number of soundings. Miles of Jsqmne miles Number of eoundingsrun. of area a.ngles и sounded out. measured.

Minot's Ledge ................... ---- .......... ---и---и
Nortbeasi and southwest of Davis' &uth shoal.. иииии -и-и-и Northeast of Great Rip ................... -ии--и-и-и---" Ma.rtha'a Vineyard ииииииии и--- иии - ......... ---и и--и ---и Gloneeeter ии............. -----и .. ~и-и -и--и----и ---и ---и Marl>lebead to Lynn .иииии ии-и-ии-- ..... - иииииииии -и---и Lynn harbor .................... _--иии--иии--и-и-и--иDeep-eea. soundings ........ ии---и ..................... .

6,000 934
965

40 156
160

4

200

3,846 6,035
4,325 1,702 178

400 150
85

142 120 150 20

16 250

30 6

'241-и 47

160 146 392 .471.

. After the completion of the work in Section II, in the early part of the season, theиpa.rty under charge of Lieut. Comg. M. Woodhull, U.S. Navy, assistant in the Coa.St Survey, proceeded to Section I to commence the season's work there, of which the first was the minute survey of the "Sow and Pigs" reefs, off Cuttyhunk, Massachl~etts, for the ,purpose of selecting a site for a light-house. This was commenced .about the middle of June, and completed on the lst of July. A more extended notice of this survey is given in Lieut. Comg.и}Voodhull's report upon it in full, which was transmitted by me on the 3d of September, and is given in Appendix No. 50.и Captain H. 1V. Benham, of the Corps of Engineers, assistant, was associated with Lieut. Comg. Woodhull on this duty, and these officers united in the selection of the site indicated on the sheet which was transmitted to the department, and is now shown on Sketch A, No. 4. The survey of Monomoy s~oals, (see Sketch .A., No. 1,) and their vicinity, was commenced on the 5th of July. The work embraced within its limits covered the shoals known as the Shovelfull, Handkerchief, Dry shoal, Broken Groun~ Pol.lock Rip, and the Great, and Little Round shoal; also the coast on both sides of Monomoy Point from Harwich Port, pJi the westward, to Chatham, on the tJfist. . The importance of this locality seemed to justify the immediate issue of Q. preliminary chart, which is now in the course of preparatio11. The' va.lue .of the иligbt-b?at recently pla.ced on Shovelfull shoal is acknowledged by Lieut. Comg. W oodhllll, who mentions that Butler's Hole, in consequence of the facility a.1forded for entering by this vessel; is now much used as a harbor by :vesSels navigating the sound, hound either to or from the eastward. .After this, the survey of Deep Hole J'9Ck1 at the entrance into иDeep Hole hai;bor, near Cotai~ M.~husetts, was made with a. view to placing a. bea.con upon it. This opei:&tionJs notlced .more fully \IJ

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY .FOR 1853.

и

35

the report communicated, with sketch, to the department on October 31, given in Appendix No. 49. и ~и On the 14th of August the party was divided, the schooner Madison repairing to York harbor, Maine, (see Sketch A, No. 1,) to execute the survey there necessary to the selection of a site for a light-house. The Gallatin at the same time executed the hydrographf of .Portland harhor, Maine. {See Sketch A, No. I.) The work.,in this excellent harbor has been very minute, embracing its numerous islands and channels necessary to form a complete chart. In speaking of the advantages and capacities of Portland harbor, Lieut. Comg. Woodhull remarks: "This harbor f look upon as one of the best on our whole coast, remarkable alike for the facility of ingress and egress, with its convenient and safe anchorage. The main entrance is deep and sufficiently wide for sailing-vessels.under all circumstances, and the sailing limits so plain tha,t f4ere.can be little or no impediment to navigating it with ease and perfect safety. . Good ten fathoms of water can be C!}rried from sea to Mtmjoy Point., and there arc from four and a half to five fathoms _within the harbor. I have been very particular «d minute in sounding the harhor within the breakwater and fronting the city, иas иI hoped thereby to furnishи such facts as would give the citizens of Portland fuli knowledge of this harQ<>r, and prevent the errors that have bee╗ committed in some of our commercial ports, in forcing improvements beyond propriety and a due regard to the sij.f~~Y иof the harbor. Already shoals are making, caused, I think, by the irregularity in .1$gth of the different piers now existing, behind which eddies are formed. I would urge and recommend that the longest .pier be considered the utmost limits of such extension for the.future, iхiQ. that as speeaily as conve_nient the remaining piers should be builtи ou:t flush with -that limit. This would haveи the effect of preventing eddies, make a uniform and direct flow and ebb of the tide, and thus keep the harbor thoroughly and regularly scoured. Back of the city, and just without the flats, there is good deep water. . A little assistance would make this a most safe and excellent steamboat harbor. The depth of water is S'U:ffi.cient, and the channel is straight, wide, deep, and convenient for ingress and egress. . u I would recommend that a small sixth-order harbor light be ereeted .on the extremity of the breakwater-; also that a can-buoy be placed on the shoal to the northward of the bre~kw8.ter: the one now down is too small to serve as a proper mark. I deem the light .ab<>"Ve menti<;m.ed:ver7 important; it. is abs~l~tely necessary to make a safe entrance mto the ha.root, and. to. guard agamst stT1king the break:water itself, ;whi'Ch is nearly иunder w.ater at high tide, and is, therefore, on dark nights difficult to be seen so as to be avoided,'? . A minut~ survey and determination of the position of Alden's rock, lyingи at the entrance into th!s harbor, (see Sketch A,, No. 2,) w~re made, and the results furnished, by authority of the department, to the .Board of Trade of that city, who contemplate taking measures ~ither for its remoV'al or indication by a more appropriate mark than a.mere buoy. . . The survey of Plymouth harbor, Ma,ssachlm4tts, (see Sketch A, No. 1,) was commenced on the 25th of September, and firiish~d>r>:n the 15th of October. '!his harbor was very closely sounded, embracing lill. its approaches; which иbeing finished, the pariy returned to Monomoy Point and vicinity to complete -. portion of the hydrography which had been left undone in the eariier put of the .seas.on. lit October Lieut. Comg. Woodhull made examinations of the localities for surfbciits on the coast of New Rampahire andи. Maine, proYided for by Congress and referred.by the department to.this oilice. His report on the result of these exam-

36

OF THE SUPERIN.TENDENT

inations was transmitted to the department on the 24th of October, and is also given in the Appendix No. 9. , The schooner Madison, of this party, also gave transportation to Captain A. A. Gibson, U. S. ~l\..rmy, ::issistant in the Coast Survey, in taking views of several harbors along this coast. . _ . _ After the completion of the a~ove иwork, .the party reurned to New York harbor to determine the positions of several buoys in the harbor, which was done at the end of October, when the vessels were laid up and the officers returri'ed to the office to reduce and plot the work of the season in which they are now engaged, having executed with great zeal and assiduity the large amoun_t of work for which they were called upon. The statistics of that work are given in the following table:
0

и / Number of

.

.

и

1-so_nn_din_и_g_s._и~i-ng_s_run___,.~-ar-e_11_so_u_nd_e_d. i-g-le_em_e_asu_r_ed_.
3,600 18,500
11, OiJO 6,500 180 700 600 270 180

1

Milesofsouttdи Squaremile;oflNumberofan-

~~~~~JI::~~:::::::::::::::::и~:.и:::::::::::::::::!
Portlllnd ииииии.иииии --и--иии-'ии----- иииииииииииии ; Plrmonth ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии York harbor иииииииииии.ииииииииииии ----ии ииии ~---I Deep Hole rock .ииииии.ииииииииии.иииииииии.иииии '

120

J!l

231. 970
720

-I

65
20

2,600 3,000

120

Tota.I иииииииииии.ии -~-- ииииииииииииииииииииии

и11-~-..----1-45,200 2,0~0

.......... ,, ___ ........... 390 ..... -и .......... ---и ...................................
206~

868

3,182

Light.house examinations.-The surveys of York harbor, Maine; иthe Minot's ledges, Cohasset, Boston harbor-; of the Sow and Pigs rocks, near Cuttyhunk; and of Deep Hole rock, иnear Cotuit; Massachusetts, were inade at the request of the Light-house Board, and by direction of the Treasury Department, under the law of 1852. The results of these surveys иhave been transmitted to the department in reports, of which.-1 append copies, (see respectively Appendix Nos. 48, 50, and 49,) each of which was accompanied by a sketch indicating the position selected for the aids to navigation contemplated. Tides.-:-Tidal observations were continued at .Portland, Portsmouth, Boston drydock, Hyands, and Great Point, Nantucket-at the first last two named places with a иself-registering tide-gauge; and were made at Gfoucester and Siasconsett, in addition to those temporary observations required'for the correction of the . soundings. и и .и To obtain reliable tidal observations on the. outside of. the island of Nantucket, where the e?b and flow. corresponds toиthat on the shoals, has been~ baffling problem. The nse and fall is small, and the surf иbreaks frequently with very great violence on that very exposed part of the coast. By the perseverance and skill of Sub-Assistant G. A. Fairfield, a gauge was placed near Sia.sconsett, on the eastern . side of the island, connected by a pipe with the sea below low water. This ar. rangement has worked well, and .will probably stand as .. rong . is necessary t~ obtain the tidal data desired. :rhe difficulties encountered, a.nd .final arrangements made, are detailed.in Mr; иFairfield's report, (Appe11dix: No. 13.) иwith the experience thus gained he was readily enabled to place a second gauge of the same sort at Great Point, Nantucket, to compare with that at Hyannis, the obser-и vations of which of last season did not appear reliable. Inи this latter case the pipe was connected with a self-registering gauge, and the working of the apparatus was very satisfactory. . и и Views.-Early in October Captain A. A. Gibson, U. S. Armyl ass:istant in the Coa.st Survey, made such views of tbe'harbors of Sal~ll1 and Newburyport, Masi!lt'

of

and

as

OF TRE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

37

chusetts, and Portsmouth, New Hampshire, as were required for the charts of those harbors now in the hands of the. engraver. This occupied about ten days, for which time the schooner Madison, of Lieut. Comg. Woodhull's party, was at his disposal to afford transportation from place to place, and the means of obtaining the proper points of view of e~ch harbor.
SECTION II.-FROM POINT JUDITH TO CAPE HENLOPEN, INCLUDING THE COAST OF CONNECTICUT, NEW YORK, :PENNSYLVf1UA, AND PART OF DELA.WARE. (8K&Tce B.)

The surveys of the Hudson, of Sandy Hook changes, and of the shoals and channels in that vicinity, have somewhat increased the amount of field-work in this section; two triangulation, one to.Pographical, and two hydrographic parties have been engaged during parts of the season, as their services could be spared from other sections. The triangulat:ion of the Hudson riyer has been extended, and points determined at the entrance of Dona and. Mahon's rivers for verification of the hydrographic points of the previous year. The topographical survey of both shores of the Hudson, from Fort Washington to Sing Sing, has been made, noticing the changes in the shore by improvements and other causes since the previous surveyи; Sandy Hook has been resurveyed, and its changes since the last and formEir surveys determined. The hydrography of the Hudson river has advanced from theи limits of the former work to Croton Point, about twenty miles above Fort Washington, and a resurvey of the Romer shoal, Flynn's Knoll, East and.West Swash channels, and a part of Gedney's channel, New York harbor, has been made1 -With a view to ascertain any changes which may have taken place in their posit.funs or exten.t, and a~o to select a location for a beacon to be used in connexion with the present beac~ns by' vessels entering the harbor. The Jersey fiats from Constable's. Point to Jerseyи City have also been sounded over minutely. The tidal observations at -Governot)r's island have been continued. The off-shore chart froin Gay Head to Cape .Henlopen, and the chart of the mouth of Connecticut river, have be~n published during the year, and sketches of Romer and Flynn's shoals, and changes in Sandy Hook, Long Island sound, Nos. 1., 2, and 3, south side of Long Island, and comparative map of Romer shoal and Swash. channel, New York harbor, have been in progress. и и Trian9ulation.-The tria~gulatiou of 4he Hudson river, under the ch_arge of Assistant Edmund Blunt, hltll extended d1.1.ring the season to a station (see Sketch B, No. 1) on Constitutiqn island, near West Point, New York. This was commenced in the first part of September:, after the withdrawal of the party from the Chesapeake, and continued until November. The work of the ~eason covers an area. of forty-two square miles, in which twenty-one stations h~ve bc,en occupied,. forty-five primary иand one hundred and ninety-five secondary angles meas. ured, in two hnn.dr~d and twenty-nine s~ries, by two thousand and ninety-eight (2,098) observation13.- . The!'le were mlJ,de with twelve-inch theodolites C. S. No. n, (Simms,) and.O.и.$. No. 32, (Gambey.) . . .и In additio~ to 'this triangulation above noticed, Mr. Blunt determined the position of tl}e light-house at the entrance to Bridgeport, Connecticut, numbered .112 in the list of light-houses, and of that in Newark bay, at the mouth of the Passaic river, numbered .. 131. He also determined points and re-erected the . necessary signals for t~~~~snrvey of Romer shoal and vicinhy, New York harbor, (see Sketch B, No. 2,):~d marked the points for .the range beacons proposed by the 1a.te Assistant J. B: Gluck, in.his r-eport given in Appendix No. 23 to my report 4bfJ85l. Mr. Blunt'sreporton thislastoperation is'given in Appendix No. 51. Lieut. A. H. Seward, U. S. Army, aBSistant, has been attached to this party during the whole season, and, upon the close- of the Hudson river work, received

38

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT и .

.

instructions for the charge of a party triangulating along the inner Florida reef, for which he is now making preparations.' . . . Lieut. D. T. Van Buren, U. S. Army, assistant, who had been attached to the party of Captain Palmer on the Rappahannock, joined Mr. Blunt in September, upon the suspension of the work for the summer in ~ection III, and continued with him until its resumption in October.. и . и . . . ~ . The position of Mahon's river light-house, and of the station at Dona landing, used in the hydrographic survey of last year of' Dona !Ind Mahon's rivers, (see Sketch B, No. 1,) by Lieut. Comg. Woodhull, were verified in January last by Assistant J. E. Hilgard, and the points given to the hydrographic party to plot that work. Three other lights were obsen;ed upon for the same object. Topography.-Assistant F. H. Gerdes, who had :finished inking the several sheets of his reconnaissances iu the Southern sections; was detailed to make the resurvey of Sandy Hook, New York harbor, to note what changes had taken place since the survey of November, 1851. S~ stone posts were placed in that year in positions for. easy reference and comparison in future surveys. Most of these, however, have been removed or lost, and the Hook has changed somewhat,и though not materially, in its outline. A comparison of its shore-line of this and former. years is given in Sketch B, No. 3. The sheet of this year contains ten miles of shoreline, and three square miles of area..и The great cl:ianges on the Hudson river since 1839, the date of the last survey, produced by the innumerable improvements along its whole extent, required that a new determination of !ts shore~_lirie, and of the topography of its banks, should be made before executing the reduced drawing. Mr. Gerdes was therefore instructed to make thil:f resurvey, which he has accomplished of both shores from S'fbg SiI1g to Fort Washington, (see Sketch B, No. L) This is embraced in thr~e 'sheet~ . completed, and a fourth nearly so, comprising an extent of shore-line <'J'f fifty-five .miles, and an area of thirty-six square mile!). Mr. Gerdes inked these sheets as he advanced with the field-work, and has since handed them inro .the office ; he also furnished points to the hydrographic party wotking on thisи riv~r: The work was closed al;>out the last of October, but will be resumed nextиyear, and continued to embrace the _lower .portion of the river, and thl;}. shore-line of the city to the battery. Mr. Gerdes is now under instructions for the1urther prosecution of the reconnaissance of theиGulf of Mexico along the shores of Louisiana and Texas. и .и . Hydrograpky._:._The hydrography of the Hudson river was commenced during the season by the party of Lieut. Comg. R. Wainwright, U. S. Navy, assistant. The portion slfrveyed lies between Croton Point and. Fort Washington~ (see sketch B, No. 1,) a distance of about twenty miles. In its execхt.ion thirteen thousand. four hundred and twenty-five (13,425;) casts of the lead were made, two hundred and nineteen (219) miles of soundings run, thirty-four (34) .:squ~e miles of area.и sounded out, and fifteen hundred.and thirty-eight (1,538) anglea.measnred. The.и. abo-:e was accomplished after th.e. :withdrawal of the p~y r~,,..~ the. summer from Section III, ~ugust 5th a.nd Octobe~ .18th. In conne.x:ion Wlth t~ survey, two permanent tide-gauges ~re kept-one for a month and. the otherи for a month. and a half--six current stations occupied, and a flood imd ebb tide ta.ken at eooh. . In addition to plottin~иthis work, the inking and lett~~:,of the entire seMOn's и~ survey of the James иriver was done. . и.:: и.и.и. The party is now work in the Rappahannock river, Virginia. A resurvey of the Jersey flats, from Constable's Point to J.ersey City, {see Shitclf B, No. 1,) was made in .April last, by Lieut. Oomg. M. иWoodhull, U. S.. Navy, assistant, and all the roeks, ba.ls, &c., carefully dellel'min~ This was done betw~

at

OF THE UNITED STATES CO.A.ST SURVEY fOR 1853.

39

the 20th of April and 4th of May, in which time eight thousand :five hundred (8,500) casts of the lead were made, one hundred and seventy (170) miles of soundings run, ten (10) square miles of area sounded out, and one hundred and ninety (190) double angles measured. In connexion with this, hourly observaи tions of tides night and day, at Bedloe's island, were made. I am indebted to B. Aycrigg, Esq.,. of Aquackanock, for calling my attention to the necessity for this work, and for putting his minute local knowledge at the disposal of the survey; the value of which Lieut. Woodhull acknowledges in his report. A resurvey was made of Romer shoal, East and \Vest Swash channeis, of a part of Gedney's channel, and of Flynn's Knoll, in New York harbor, (see Sketch B, Nos. 1 and 2,) with a view to ascertain what changes had taken place since the last survey, and with sp~cial refer~nce ~o t~e posit~on of the ~omer. beacon, and o' a new one to be used m connection with it, to g~1de vessels m passing the shoal. and through the Swash channel. This survey was very minute, an area of twenty-five (25) square miles having been sounded with eight thousand (8,000) casts of the lead, two hundred and twenty-five (225) miles of soundings run, and three hundred and seventy (370) double angles measured. The result of this work is published in: sketch accompanying this report, and numbered B No._ 2. After this work, liieut. Woodhull proceeded to Section I, to execute that which has been already noticed under the head of that section. Light-house surveys.-The survey noticed inи the preceding paragraph was for light-hons~ purposes. и
SECTION III ...:..FROM CAPE HE.NLOPEN TO CAPE HENRY, INCLUDING THE COAST OF DELA.WA.RE, MARYLAND, AND PART OF VIRGINIA. (SKJCTcH C.)

Twelve parties have been successfully engaged in this section during the whole or part of the season. One was engaged in astronomical observations and the determination of telegraphic differences of longitude ; one in primary and secondaiиy triangulation; thre~ in secondary triangulation; four in topography; and two in h.y~ography.. Astron?n;iical obse_rvations, in conn~XiCJP with, those at Charleston . and Rale1gh lll determmmg the drff!"rence of long1tudlf betweenи the former place and Washington, were made. Magnetic and azimuth observations were made at the time of the measurement of a base of verification for the outside triangulation. The main and secondary triangulation-0f Chesapeake bay, and of those adjacent and of the outer coast, have been finished. The secondary triangulation of the James river from Richmond to below' City Point, and of the Happahannock from Fred- и ericksburg to Port Royal, has been executed. The topography of the outer coast of Virginia is nearly finished_; that of the shores of Chesapeake bay advanced; that of the James and Rappahannock rivers has been under execution; work of revision on the Patapsco is nearly completed. The hydrography outside the entrance to :the Chesapeake ~o$s to Cape Henry has been completed, and that of the bay within the capee 'hM ma.de good progress ; .that of the James river from Richmond иto Harrison's bar lias been executed, and that of the Rappahannock commenced at ,Fredericksburg. A successful series of off-shore tidal observations have been ob;tained, and the determination of the positions of two important shoals, not laid down in the charts, iii ~00;trance of the bay, has been made and published' for tlie benefit of mariners.>, . ' Within the year a chart of the seacoast of Delaw8J'e, Maryland, and Virginia, No. l,and sketches of Cape Charles and vic!bity, of Wachapreague, Metomkin, Pungoteag..u uee,, and of Cherrystone inlets, and of Hog Island harbor, Virginia, have been.и published. Charts of Chesapeake ba.y, Nos. 1, 2, a.nd 3, Pa.ta.psco river,

40

R.BPORT OF THE SUPERIN.TENDENT

Appomattox, and part of James river, have been in progress, besides a manuscript map of the Appomattox river for the city of Petersburg, which is nearly completed. .Astronomical observations.-In the determination of the difference of longitude . between Washington and New Orleans by telegraph, Seaton station in this section was occupied to connect with Cha:deston, South Carolina, and afterwards with Raleigh. The observations were ma;de at this station by Assistant L. F. Pourtales, from whose report I quote the following statement of the number of observations made, instruments used, and mode of observing : . "The instruments used were, transit instrument U. S. C. S. No. 6, the Hardy clock, with Mr. Saxton's break circuit apparatus, Bond's spring governor, and a Morse register. A main battery of forty grove cups was used, and a local battery of six jars on Mr. Mathiot's plan. The station communicated with the southern t~graph_ office by the wire belonging to the Coast Survey attached to the posts of the Magnetic Telegraph Company. "The telegraphlc arrangementsи were made by Mr. E. Colton, chief operator at the southern telegraph office. I was assisted in observing by Mr. R. T. Bassett. ":P;reparationsи for working were made on eleven nights, between January 17th and February 18th, withdut success. During this time eighty-eight transits of stars were observed for instrumental correction and clock's rate. "Having found it impossible to get a good circuit to Charleston, owing to im. perfect insulation of the line, it was resolved to divi~e the distance, and in consequence Dr. Gould established himself at Raleigh, and was ready for work on the 15th of April . "Four good working nights were obtained, viz: April 21st, 26th, 28th, and 30th. On those nights eighty stars were exchanged for difference of longitude, sixteen reversals of the transit instrument were made o:rf circumpolar stars for determining the error of aollimation, and thirty-one transit$ observed for clock's rate and azimuth correctic;m. Observations for th~ same purposes were also made on the nights of April 15th, 18th, 20th, 22d, 27th, .and May 2d. .On those nights ten reversals oi;i circumpolar stars and thirty-six transits for clock's rate were obtained. ии " и . . "Before the ca.ql.paign srn:ty-two stars were observed for the determination of the personal equation between Dr. B. A. Gould and myself, and eight for the same purpose between Assistant C. 0. Boutelle and myself. After the campaign twelve more stars were observed by Dr. Gould and myself, for: the same object. "During the year ending October 1,. twenty-nine culminations of the first limb of the moon, and seventeen .of the second limb, and three hundred. and seventy transits of sta.rs in connection with them for comparisons with the W estei:n coast, were observed at Seaton station, chiefly by Messrs. R. T. Bassett and R. P. Kerrison. During .the progress of the telegraph operations the moon culminations were only observed when not interfering with them ..., . . . . _.. . . These operations are noticed more fully under the head-of: ~ctfon Y. ,. Primary tTfangulation.-The primary triangulation, and the secondary connected' with it, of Chesapeake bay and the, adjacent bays, have been brought to a successful completion during the past season to Cape Henry (see Sketch C, No. 1) by Assist-: ant Edmund Blunt, who has extended it from the base ()Il Kent island. The firstc observation of the season was made on the 5th of July;-Ol;e'.;,Wly part of the season having been"occupied in the general setting of signals ;'iU);i the last on the 4th of August. During that time twent.five stations were o'ccupied, three primary angles were measured, and three hundred and one secondary} with one thousand 'six hundred and ninety-seven observations, with one hundred and seventy-two repetitions. The area covered by the work -was. ajxt.y-one square miles. The

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853,

41

instruments used were twelv.inch theodolites, C. S. No. 11, (Simms,) and C. S. No. 32, (Gambey.) Mr. Blunt, with Lieut. A. H. Seward, U. S. Army, assistant in his party, repaired, on the completion of the above work, to Section II, to contirme the triangulation of the Hudson river northward, which has been noticed under its appropriate head. Mr. Blunt is now engaged in marking thoroughly the several station points in this section. Secondary triangulation.-As stated in my last report, Mr. Farley took the field early in October last, for the purpose of connecting the secondary triangulation of the outer coast of Maryland and Virginia with that of the Chesapeake, at Smith's island, near Cape Charles. (See Sketch C, No. 1.) A satisfactory line of junction was obtained between Smith's island east and Cape Charles station, and the observations completed on the 6th of November. The triangulation points, up the coast as far as Hardy's Hole station, were then marked with permanent monuments, and some of the topographical stations secured. This duty was terminated by the . advance of the season, and from other causes, on November 26. Mr. Farley was occupied with the computations of his season's work during the winter and until :March, when they were reported to the affice; and he commenced preparations for the triangulation of James river, Virginia, from the limits of the work of last year by Lieutenant William P. Trowbridge. This was begun in April, and continued until the end of July, when it was suspended on account of the sickness of the party. A further account of this work will be given subsequently. With a view to finally closing up the triangulation of the seacoast of Maryland and Virginia; it was determined to measure one of the sides of the triangulation, as a verification line; and Assistant J. E. Hilgard was detailed to assist Mr. Farley in the measurement of the base and the observation of the azimuth of one of the lines. This operation, whicli was commenced on the 6th of September, is thus reported by Assistant Farley : "The measurement was made by Assistant J. E. Hilgard and myself, aided by :Mr. Stephen Harris, and completed on the 26th of September. "The site selected is on the beach, extending about one mile and a quarter northeast and southwesterly from station Dromedary, and opposite to the side Dav-is-Quilling, to which the measured length has been transferred, by the observation of angles at north base, south base, Davis and Quillin~, with the ten-inch Gambey, No. 31, and the six-inch Brunner theodolite, No. 59: "The base was measured with two four-metre rods, marked 3 and 4, and with the apparatus used by Mr. Boutelle at Georgetown, South Carolina. "The number of bars measured is 977, and the length of the base 3908.5'\ и The average number of bars measured in an hom was forty-five-the greatest number, ninety. . "Thirty-five angles, each by six repetitions, were measured, to transfer the measured line to the side Davis-Quilling. The work closes in a satisfactory manner. "In connexion with this work, observations of azi:i;uuth and ma:gnetic observaи tions were made by Assistant J. E. Hilgard at station Davis. "Twelve sets of six: repetitions between Polaris and a mark were observed at both elongations of .the star, and ten Дlets to refer the azimuth to the station Quilling, the instrument used being the ten-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 31, (Gambey.) . "The magnetic observati-0ns consist of three days of declination, three sets of dip, and one set of horizontal intensity observations." The :first :field-work of the season by Mr. Farley's party was the continuation of the triangulation of the James river, Virginia, between Richmond and City Point.. This work was carried on by Mr. Farley from the 20th of April to the 19th of May,
6

42

RE:PORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

when, on account of his sickness, Sub-Assistant J. R. Oflley was detailed to assist him. The party continued working under. single organization until the 15th of June, when it was found practicable to double it-Mr. Farley executing the lower portion, in the vicinity of City Point, and .Mr. Offley the upper part, working towards each other. и The unhealthiness of the season on the river, both gentlemen becoming sick, rendered it advisable to close the work on Jnly 26, after carrying it as far down the river as the line Longfield-Kingsland; иleaving an interval between the triangulations of the two parties of about ten miles, which will be closed by one of them during the coming season. The number of intersections in this work, by both parties, was one thousand eight hundred and thirty-nine, (1,83~,) from seventeen stations occupied. The instruments used were the ten-inch. theodolite, C. S. No. 15, (Gambey,) and the .six-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 60, (Brunner.) Mr. Farley, upon his recovery, commenced the measurement of a base, with the assistance of Mr. J. E. Hilgard, upon the eastern shore of Virginia, which bas been reported under its proper head; Mr. Offley, meauwhile, being engaged in computing the results of the James river triangulation. The triangulation of the James river, Virginia, was commenced last November by Lieut. Wm. P. Trowbridge, U. S. Engineers, assistant in the Coast Survey, who continued the work until the middle of January, when he was withdrawn for the purpose of making preparations for duty on the Western coast, in which he has been si~cc engaged. A base line of 892.17 metres in length was measured near Richmond, and a triangulation extended from the city down the river to French station. (See Sketch C, No. 1.) A reconnaissance and plai;i. for its further extension was made as far as Warwick. The work executed by this party includes an area of about four square miles, the occupation of ten stations, and the measurement of thirty-nine (39) primary angles, and thirty (30) secondary, by one hundred sets of six repetitions and sixty secondary observations. The further triangulation of this river has been continued by Assistant John Farley and Sub-Assistant J.' R. Offley, the results being as above reported. The reconnaissance for the secondary triangulation of the Rappahannock river, from Fredericksburg _to its mouth, (see Sketch C, No. 1,) was made in the autumn of last year, by Captain Wm. R. Palmer, U. S. Topographical Engineers, assistant in the Coast Survey. An appropriate scheme of triangulation was laid out for each of the three sections into which the river was divided: the first extending from 'Fredericksburg to Port Royal, the second from Port Royal to Tappahannock, and the third from Tappahannock to the Chesapeake. The report of this reconnaissance, containing interesting information in regard to the river, its shores, , villages, &c., is given in Appendix No. 114. On the 15th of April Captain Palmer commenced the triangulation of the first section of this river, assisted by Lieut. D. T. Yan Buren, U: и S. Army, on Coast Survey semce. A base line of twelve hundred and forty metres was measured about the midd~ of the section, and the triangulation first carried up the river towards Fredericksburg. This was finished on the first of June and extended to Falmouth village, about a mile above Fredericksburg, when th.e party returned to the" base and triangulated down the river nearly to Port Royal, discontinuing work at the line Hazelwood-Lewis (see Sketch C, No. 1) on the 6th of July, when the advance of the season required it. The trianguJation of the season extended a distance of eighteen miles directly, following the river shore of thirty miles; twenty-nine stations were occupied, and ninety-six angles were measured by one thousand two hundred and ninety~six

OF THE UNITED ST.ATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

43

(1,296) observations uponиthirty-one objects. .The instrument used was the sixinch theodolite, C. S. No. 58, (Brunner.) Captain Palmer completed the computations of the work after returning from the field, and Lieut. Van Buren joined Assistant Edmund Blunt in the triangulation. of the Hudson river. The party resumed work here in October, and is now, under the former organization, engaged in extending it into the second section towards the mouth of the river. Topograpliy.-The topography of the peninsula of Maryland and Virginia has been extended by the party of Assistant George D. Wise. On the 10th of June Mr. Wise accompanied Lieut. Comg. Almy and furnished him the shore-line from Sand Shoal inlet to Cape Charles, (see Sketch C, No. 1,) which completes the shore-line from Cape Henlopen to that point. This finished, the topography of the shores was extended as far as Sand Shoal inlet, comprising, up to the first of October, an extent of shor~-line of one hundred and five miles, and an area surveyed of fiftyone square miles. The topographical party of Sub-Assistant John Seib commenced the survey of the James river, Virginia, in the early part of the past season. The intention was to have taken the field in April, but the accidental grounding of the schooner 1Vave, the vessel employed by the party, caused a short delay, and they did not reach the field until May 16th; the work was then taken up, and actively prose-,, cuted until June 27th, when the requisite amount of shore-line was completed and furnished to the hydrographic party at work in that river. This was contained in four sheets, and extended from Warwick, the limits of Sub-Assistant Wainwright's work, to Cogain's Point, below Harrison's bar, (see Sketch C, No. 1,) embracing an" extent of shore-line of eighty-one and a half miles. Having made a copy of the James river work and sent it to the office, Mr. Seib repaired to the Chesapeake to take up the topography of the unfinished portion of the main shores of that bay. This portion is included in plane-table sheets 53 and 54:, to which was added work on sheet No. 56, embracing part of Hampton и Roads and the mouths of the James and Nansemond rivers, (see Sketch C, No. 1.) Mr. Seib thus describes the limits and progress of each sheet, and the whole amount of work in this vicinity: и "No. 53 includes Pocsin river and a part of Back river; only a small portion of it is done on the northern shore of Back river. "No. 54 includes part of Back river and of Rampton Roads, wit~ Old Point Comfort, Mill creek, Hampton creek and town, Willoughby's Point, MMon's creek, Sewell's Point, and the lower part of Tanner's creek, at the mouth of the Elizabeth river. This sheet was commenced last year, and is now completed. "No. 56 includes a part of Hampton Roads, the mouths of Nansemond иa.nd James rivers. On this are executed the shore and topography from the limits of sheet No. 54 to Newport-News Point, and the shore with a small portion of the topography from Cra.ny island to within a short distance of Pig Point, at the mouth of Nansemond river. и "The country thus gone over and surveyed is low and even, the highest point above high-water mark scarcely exceeding ten feet ; it is much intersected with creeks, coves, and branches, with considerable woqdland and marsh, as will be seen from the following statement of the amount of work executed: 101 miles. "Shore-line of bay, river, and creeks "Shore-line of иponds и и 161 "

'' Total shore-line

--117}
---

"

и

44

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

'' A.rea of country, cultivated land. Do. woodlands Do. sand and marsh "Total area

11 square miles.

и ll!
4

"
"

26i square miles.,,

The work in this neighborhood was suspended upon the completion of planetable sheet No. 54, about October 5th, when the party was transferred to the . , Rappahannock river to execute the shore-line corresponding to Captain Palmer's triangulation, in which it has been since engaged. Before taking the :field in the spring, Mr. Seib was occupied in inking the sheets of his previous season's work on the Appomattox river, which were finished and turned into the office. The topographical party of Sub-Assistant S. A. Wainwright was detailed for the purpose of furnishing shore-line and points -to the hydrographic party making the survey of the James river, Virginia. This was done during the month of May, executing about fifteen miles of shore-line from Mayo's Bridge, above Richmond1 to Warwick bar, (see Sketch C, No. 1.) Mr. Wainwright also made a survey of Trent's Reach, in this river, to furnish points to the party sounding on the bar there. When the above work was :finished, Mr. W ainwrigbt repaired to the office to " finish the inking of his sheets of Georgetown harbor, South Carolina, which has been done, and they have been turned into the office. ~ Hydrography.-The hydrography of the outer shore of Virginia was resumed, during the past season, by Lieut. Comg. J. J. Almy, U. S. Navy, as.sistant in the Coast Survey, from the limits of the last year's work, at a line running from the northeast point of Prout's island, and was extended to Cape Henry light, a distance of thirty-three miles, (see Sketch C, No. 1,) making thus admirable progress. The hydrography of the entrance to the Chesapeake was included within the limits of the sheets, soundings on which were carried off the north point of Prout's island to a distance of fifteen nautical miles, and off Cape Henry to a distance of twenty и nautical miles, extending in a line between these outer points, and including an area of fi;ve hundred andи sixty square miles. One thousand one hundred and sev:entysix (1,17.6) nautical miles of soundings were run; eight~en thousand one hundred and six (18,106) soundings were made in from one to :fifteen fathoms water; four thousand four hundred and ninety-eight (4,498) angles were . measured with a thecl'dolite, and one thouS8Jld two hundred and eighty (1,280) with a sextant. Five current stations were occupied, and one hundred and seventy-three (173) observations taken; seventy-eight high and seventy-seven low tides we1иe observed, and,.the number of observations made were three thousand :five hundred and fortysix, (3,546,) and thirty-seven specimens of bottom were obtained. The same vessels were attached to this party during this season as the lest-the steamer Hetzel and schooner Graham. In speaking of the currents as observed, Lieut. Comg. Almy says: "Upon the sketch will be observed the tracks of three bottles which have been .thrown overboard and picked up this sea.son. Their colJll:Ses, as you will perceive, were nearly due north-the reverse of the courses of the bottles thrown overboard. the two previous seasons. The preva.iling winds, through almost the entire season, have been from the southward, and there has been very little northerly wind. Not even once during the season has there been wh~t might be called a regular 'norUieaster,' which we ha.ve frequently had during the two previous seasons. This would seem to show that the current upon the seacoast of Virginia is intluenced almost entirely by the winds."' .

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 181'>3.

'45

One of the most important results of the season's work of this party has been the determination of the positions of two dangerous shoals lying at the entrance into Chesapeake bay, and which were not laid down upon any existing map. The и outer of these two shoals lies at a distance of seven nautical miles, and bearing E. by S. t S. from Smith's Island light-house, with three and one-fourth fathoms of water upon it at low tide, and seven fathoms between it and the land. The inner shoal lies SE. by E., distant four and three quarter nautical miles from the lightи house, with seventeen feet upon it, and five fathoms between it and the land. The notice of the determinations of these positions was published, by authority of the department, for the benefit of navigators, and is now appended to this report. (See Appendix No. 16.) A tripod was placed on a shoal at sea, two nautical miles from the tide-staff at Sand Shoal inlet, (see Sketch C, No. 1,) and seven high and seven low waters observed for comparison. As is almost invariably the case in such observations, the differences of time and height of high and low water on the shores and at the inlet were irregular; but the final average result showed a difference much smaller than the irregularities of the phenomena themselves. These observations, though difficult to make, will be resumed on a favorable occasion. Lieut. .A.lmy's report on them is given in Appendix No. 15. In a supplementary report, Lieut. Oomg. Almy gives the reeult of his work inside the capes in Chesapeake bay. This &xtends from the limits of last year, at New Point Comfort, northward to Wolf' Trap, thence across the bay, and further north to beyond "Sandy Point.,, (See Sketch 0, No. 1.) The statistics of the work, which was commenced 26th of September, and finished on November 1, when the advance of the season required its discontinuance, are given as follows: "Four hundred and twenty-seven nautical miles have been run in soundings; t_wenty-three thousand nine hundred and fifty-one (23,951) soundings have been taken, in from mfe tO seventeen fathoms -water. The number of angles taken by the theodolite for hydrographic positions is one hundred and twelve, and the number taken by the sextants for the same purpose is one thousand and eightythree. The number of tides observed is fifty-five high tides and fiftyи two low tides, and the number of tidal observations il3 fourteen hundred and seventy-five. The number of specimens of the bottom taken ha.S been eleven." This party is now engaged in the office, reducing and plotting the season's work. On the 22d of April the party of Lieut. Comg. R. Wainwright, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, with the schooner John Y. Ma.son, resumed the hydrography of James river where it had been suspended in the winter, about five miles below Richmond, and completed it, by the 1st of July, to the junction with the reconnaissance of Harrison's bar made in 1852. (See Sketch C, No. 1.) In the execution of this work, two hundred and thirty (230) miles of soundings were run, twenty-five thousand (25,000) casts of the lead "Qlade, one hundred and sixtyfour (164) stations were occupied, and two thousand seven hundred and one (2, 701) observations made. Two permanent and nine temporary tide-gauges were established, in connexion with the hydrography, and borings were made in twentyeight positions, varying in depth from one to ten feet below the surface, near Richmond. Upon the close of this work, in July, the party was transferred to the Hudson river, where their operations have been noticed. Since the completion of tha~ they have been engaged in the hydrography of the Ra.ppaha.nnock river, Vir~ ginia., below Fredericksburg.

46.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT SECTIONS IV, V, and VI.-GULF STREAM.

The general plan of exploration of the Gulf Stream, laid down in 1845, was to observe the phenomena on sections perpendicular to its axis from well-determined points on the coast. In pursuance of this design, sections were run from near Montauk Point, Sandy Hook, Cape Henlopen, Cape Henry, and Cape Hatteras, previous to 1848. The circumstances of the work did not permit a successful prosecution of the observations from that date until the seaso.n just past, though instructions were given and preparations were made more than once for .the purpose. The direction of Congress to show on a map, to accompany the report of this year, the state .of our knowledge in respect to the Gulf Stream, induced me to push the operations even more rapidly than I should in the regular progress of the exploration; and to employ two parties in it during a part of the season. - Lieut. Comg. Craven was directed, in returning from the Florida reef, to иrun four sections across the stream from near Cape Canaveral, St. Augustine, St. Simons, and Charleston; and Lieut. Comg. Maffitt, after closing his work at Georgetown, South Carolina, to run three sections respectively from Charleston, Cape Fear, and Cape Hatteras. In each section the number of positions was to depend upon the more or lessиrapid changes met with, and the temperatures were to be observed at the surface at five, ten, twenty, thirty, fifty, seventy, one hundred, one hundred and fifty, two hundred, three, four, :five, and six иhundred fathoms, with deeper casts in some cases to reach far into the cold polar current shown to undet'l.i@ the stream. The Hatteras section having been made in 1848, the new work was connected with the former by retracing this section, taking the former positions as nearly as they could be reached. The Charleston section was to be run by the same two parties, and it was expected that the positions occupied by the one :first passing over the section could be communicated to the other in time to join the two sets of observations at nearly the same points. . ' Great credit is due to both parties, whose chiefs I have already named, for the manner in which the work was executed. The difficulties caused by the use of a sailing-vessel (the Crawford) were entirely overcome by the zeal and perseverance of the officer in immediate charge, Acting Master J. P. Jones. The Crawford began the Oharleston section on the 2d of June and finished it on the 11th, making sixteen positions, the furthest of which was two hundred and seven miles from . Charleston light. (See Sketch Gulf Stream, Nos. 1 and 2.) The Corwin steamer, Lieut. Comg. Craven, made the Canaveral section on the 9th and .10th of June; the St. Augustine on the 10th and 11th ; the St. Simons on the 12th and 13th; and ~he Charleston on the 16th; not carrying the latter quite as far as her commander intended, from the giving out of the boilers. Including some positions not on these sections, thirty-nine positions were made. The Crawford ran the Cape Hatteras section between the 12th and 16th of July, (both inclusive,) ~d th~ ~ape Fear between tlie 19th and 26th, making in both together twentysix pos1t1ons. On иthe Charleston section, bottom was carried from ten fathoms in position A, (see Sketch Gulf Stream, No. 2,) thirty-eight nautical miles southeast from Charleston light, to one hundred fathoms in position I, sixty-five miles from the light. The bottom was not reached in position II a.t five hundred fathoms, nor at Ill in six: hundred fathoms. In position V, ninety-seven miles from Charltt.ston light, after crossing the warmest water of the Gulf Stream, bottom was struck in three hundred fathoms, on the 7th of June, at 8 p. m., and was kept at variable depths from five hundred to three hundred and seYenty fathoms to position X, two hundred and seven miles иfrom the coast. The details are shown on diagtam G~ Stream, No. 2.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

. 47

The bottom was brought up in every case, and is preserved at the office. The interesting observations of Assistant L. :B'. Pourtales, in regard to the physical and natural history characters of these and the other specimens of the bottom of the stream, collected during the cruises of this year, are given in Appendix No. 30. The Corwin's sec.tion, just north of thii one, and in a direction somewhat inclined to it, gives remarkably accordant determinations for the depths, as will be seen by examining diagram Gulf Stream, Nos. 1 and 2. After crossing the Gulf Stream on the Canaveral section, on the 10th of June, at S a. m., Lieut. Comg. Ci:aven struck soundings at four hundred fathoms in position XII, (see diagram Gulf Stream, Nos. 1 and 2,) sixty-nine miles from the coast, and kept them at position XI, six miles from the former. It appears thus that the existence of soundings of from three hundred to four hundred fathoms, after crossing the Gulf Stream at these two points of our coast, was discovered independently by the two officers whose work I am noticing, within two days and a half of each other. In the subsequent sections run by the Corwin, soundings were struck one' hundred and twenty-five miles off St. Simons in five hundred fathoms, and off Charleston. in four hundred and eighty fathoms. The form of the bottom on the Charleston and Canaveral sections is well shown on diagram No. 2, Gulf Stream, shoaling gradually from the shore to fifty-three and thirty-six miles respectively, then suddenly falling off to below the depth of six hundred fathoms. On the Charleston section, ninety-six miles from the coast, is a range of hills steep on the land side, and having a height of eighteen hundred feet and a base of about eleven miles on the seaward side; a second range one hundred and thirty-six miles from the coast, fifteen hundred feet high and twenty-eight miles base towards the shore, and six hundred feet high, with a base of about seventeen miles, on the outer side. Beyond this is a more gradual rise. On the Canaveral section the inner range is sixty-eight miles from the coast. Of course, it may readily be concludea that if the positions at which the soundings were taken had been nearer to each other, a more diversified surface would have been presented. In fact, at position XI, on the .Canaveral section, after sounding at the depth of one thousand and sixty fathoms, the steamer drifting about a mile and a quarter, the line showed bottom at four hundred and sixty fathoms. Both are stated to have been good up and down casts. These first observations, while they are merely a foundation to build upon, are undoubtedly in the highest degree interesting and important in their connexion with the phenomena of the Gulf Stream. On the sections from Cape Fear and Cape Hatteras, after leaving the shoals near the shore, the depths increase very rapidly. и Lieut. Comg. Craven noticed ripples in connexion with the irregularities of the bottom on the Charleston section. Similar ripples were observed on the Sandy Hook section by Lieut. Cpmg. Geo. M. Bache in 1846, and on the Montauk section by Lieut. Comg. Charles H. .Davis in 1845, who compared them to the "Rips" on the Nantucket shoals. These are, however, probably a secondary effect of the irregularities by the changes of current produced. For the temperature observations, the parties were furnished with Six's selfregistering thermometers for moderate depths, and witjl Saxton's metallic thermometers for greater depths. Mor,e difficulty was had with the. instruments than usual, and -there are more anomalous -0bservations ; but after examining them with care, I think it more probable that the anomalies were real than thn.t they were errors of observa.ti()n. I have also satisfied myself that they do not interfere materially with the general results. The whole of the computations which I have yet made a.re,

48

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

however, only approximate, to indicate the route to be followed in deriving numerical results, but sufficiently near the more exact ones to guide in future observations. The results of a1l the new sections confirm those given by the old ones, namely, that there are alternations of temperatures aoross the Gulf Stream, cold water intruding and dividing the warm, making 1Jius alternate streaks or streams of warm and cold water. In fact, the Gulf Stream is merely one of a number of bands of warm water separated by cold water. The observations of Mr. Jones on the Hatteras, Cape Fear, .and Charleston sections, show a counter current where the cold streaks are found; and as these observations and th!>se for temperature are entirely independent of each other, the coincidence in result is very striking. This fact is of too great importance not to be very carefully followed up. It would appear, from general reasoning,. that this was not unlikely to be the case. и The southern sections present, on a small scale, the same phenom.ena which we formerly traced over a large expanse in the more northern ones. Examining the иCanaveral section, which is the furthest south, we see the cold wall almost as plainly as on that from Sandy Hook; the curve, showing the mean results between seventy and one hundred fathoms, (diagram Gulf Stream, No. 2,) rises some _seventeen degrees, from 57 ! 0 to 7 4k ░ Fahrenheit, in the distance of twenty-three nautical miles. The warm water, overlying the cold, is deeper in its overflow towards the shore-that is all. After passing through the warmest water, which, in June last, was only 80l░ Fahrenheit at two fathoms and a half, there is a fall of temperature of several degrees, followed by a rise. On the St. Simons section (see diagram Gulf Stream, Ko. 2) the cold wall is again well shown, and is the first of those distinct bands of minimum temperature dividing four maxima, of which the greatest body of warm water of the Gulf Stream is the second from the shore. These are particularly distinct in the lower curves of the diag'!am. Near the surface the first and fourth maxima are the highest; at fifteen fathoms the first and second; at one hundred and fifty fathoms the successive maxima rise as th~y recede from the shore. The Charleston section presents, as a general feature, between twenty-five fathoms and two hundred and fifty fathoms, four w.inima and three maxima. Within the cold wall minimum is a decided warm belt, and probably further on in-shore is a cold one. The rise in the curve, showing the mean of the temperatures at twenty and thirty fathoms, is eleven degrees Fahrenheit, namely, from 64░ to 75░. There is an intrusive band of cold water between positions III and V, which doe~not continue to show itself as low down as the curve p. The advantage of not relying on surface temperatures, or those near the surface, where the distribution is so much less regular and marked than below, will be recognised in all these results, and was early provided for in my instructiollJ'. The underlying cold water from the l'lorthern regions is as plain in these southern sections as it was in the more northern. Four hundred fathoms vertically below the warmest water of the Gulf Stream, on the Cape Henlopen section, in August, 1846, the temperature was 49░ Fahr., and in the same position off Cape Canaveral, 0 in June, 1853, it was 48! и The latitude corresponding to the first temperature was about 37░ 20', and to the last about 28░ 20'. Lieut. Charles H. Davis, in October, 1845, found a temperature of 40░ at one thousand fathoms, in latitude 39░ 25', and longitude 69░ 01', and Lieut. George 1f. Bache 40░ at two thousand one hundred and sixty fathoms, in latitude 34░ 13', longitude 68░ 05'. Lieut. S. P. Lee, in August, 1847, found 3'4 below the Gulf Stream, at the depth of one thousand fathoms, in latitude 35░ 26', longitude 73░ 12'; and again 48░ beyond the Gulf Stream, at the same depth, in latitude 30░ 10', and longitude 68░ 09'. Lieut. Richard Bache, in July, 1848, found a temperature of 42░ at one thousand fathoms, in latitude ~5░ 06', and longitude 74░ 07, below the surface of the Gulf Stream.

OF THE UNITED STA.TES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

49

The fact that the side limits of the polar current recede from the shore as the o,e:pth increases, is clearly marked on all the sections. Directly down below the maximum surface temperature we soon plunge into .this cold current, the warmer :water recedingи fro.m the shore, and at four hundred fathoms reach temperatures, the differences between which at the north and south are of an order corresponding to the va.riations of- the ocean waters in different years and at different seasons. For example, at the depth of four hundred fathoms, on the Sandy Hook section, in 1846, vertically below the crest of the Gulf Strea~ the temperature was 51░ Fahr.; on the Henlopen section, at the corresponding point, 51░; on the Cape Henry section, 54t in 1848, on the.Cape Henry section, 52-! and on the Hatteras section., sr; in 1853, on the Hatteras section, 51░; and on the Cape Fear section, 54░; all the foregoing observations being made in July and August of the several years. In June of this year, the temperature at the point and depth before noted, on the Charleston section, was 55░, and near Cape Florida, fourteen miles ENE. from the light, wlis 51░, varying from 54<> to 46░ in the intermediate localities.и T\le low temperature of 46░ was observed on the Canaveral section. The temperature at four hundred fathoms, near Cape Florida, is the same as was observed on the Sandy Hook section in Jnly,.1846; I remarked that these differences came within the annual changes near the surface. Not to complicate the examination with surface irregularities, if we compare the maximum temperatures at twelve or fifteen fathoms below the surface of the diffeq:mt sections, in the same year,. we shall find, as a general rule,. an increase of temperature in passing southward, as 81░, 83░, 82░, from the Sandy Hook to the Cape Henry section; in 1846, 75-! 76░,.77i 79-!░, from the Charleston section to Cape Canaveral. But in successiv~ years we have for the highest temperature at twelve fathoms, on t11e Cape Herri:y section, higher than that of Hatteras; and the temperature in .July, 1846, on the axis of the Gulf Stream, higher at Sandy Hook .than in June, 1853, at Canaveral, by a degree and a half, and higher than Charleston by five and a half degrees. It is obvious that here an interesting field of inquiry opens, requiring careful research. The summer was selected for commencing the researches in the Gulf Stream in part, ~nd chiefly because of the greater facility, afforded for observation by the comparatively. smooth sea and moderate weather, put also because the changes at the surface of the water by heating would not tend to disturb the equilibrium.. An investigation of the effect of the seasons was postponed until the normal state of the stream was known. It must be, however, obvious that if we know the rate of'. the Gulf Stream current as it passes altmg in its course, diminishing its velocity, we can compute the interval of time which must elapse be.tween the passage of water of a oertain temperature at Cape Florida, and its arrival 'with a gra.dua.lly diminishing temperature at other points in the course of the stream. In a general way, as far as I have yet carried this compar:ison, the obser~ed facts answer to what might be expected. The reverse will apply to the cold current from the north. The lateral overflow:иof the warm water of the Gulf Stream is seen on either of the diagram's representing the curves of temperature at the same depths as that for Charleston, diagram Gulf Stream, No. 2 ; the warm water thinning out as it flows f!.pidly on the in-shore side, more slowly seaward, except near the surface. This p:revails in the case "before us a.s low a.s the curve of 67░ Fahrenheit. In this, of и course, we. must abstract the effectи of the irregularities caused by the intrusion of the cold water from below. The recession of the warmest water from the shore, as weи~h]ower depths, is well shown in the same dii:LO"t"&m.
0 0 ; ; 0 0 , ,

ии7'

-c-

50

REPORT O:E' THE SUPERINTENDENT

The effect' of the form of the bott.om of the ocean on the distribution of temperatures, and its connection with the observed alternations of warm and cold water, is the most important and interesting result of this year's e,xplorittions. Whether the cause of this distribution is the same in the sections where soundings have not yet been obtained-and we shall generalize, inferring the form of the bottom_there from the distribution of temperature-is a questio;n of temporary importance; for we can explore those depths and determine with' 'Certainty whatи lies below _'th~ lowest we have yet reached. _ "" The Charleston section, diagram Gulf Stream, No. 2, shows very well the general effect of elevations and depressions of the bottom--the elevations ra-ising up llle cold water of the bottom, the depressions allowing it to settle into them. The currn of 57░ illustrates this perfectly, passing obliquely along the in-shore band towards the deepest water, rising again along the slope of the first elevation, and being thrust by it high up towards the surface, descending again into the depression to rise again a,bove the second elevation, and so onward; the current following the reverse order of that just descriood. That there is not perfect conformity to this law, is merely to say that these observations are like all other physical results. The wonder is that they agree SD well _when ~he difficulties of making them are considered. Each observation in each position gives an independent result, and all these cannot reasonably be expected to concur, and yet must be used in representing the phenomena. Theoretical considerations would lead us to expect greater diversities than w-c actually find in the results, even were tJ;ie observations absolutely perfect. The crowding of the cold water towaids the inner shore is well shown in the diagram under notice, and the overflow of the warm water. A curious explanation of the sudden change from C!Jld to warm, in pas8ing whitt in these sections would be the cold wall, is seen ob~curely in this diagram, but perfectly on that for St. Simons, where the sudden falling-away of the in-shore slope causes the cold water_ to rise beyond its position of equilibrium, and thus, after passing through the thin stratum of warm water near the surface, the thermometer indicates a sudden fall; a much lower temperature than is to be found a few miles outsiae or in~shore. This is merely an extension of the principle before referred to, of the effect of the steep slopes in forcing up the cold water of the northern stream. In order to comply with the directions to represent the probable course of the Gulf Stream, I have studied the observations of former years in connection with those of the present, and have determfoed the approximate result shown on diagram Gulf Stream, No. 1, and on the Co:rTgress map. The axis of the Gulf Stream, or warmest line at tl:ie surface, is represented by the strongest line in the diagram. The lines corresponding to the highest temperatures of the different bands, or axes of the bands, into which the surface is divided, are drawn full, like those of the warmest band decreasing in streng.th from the mttin line. Those corresponding to the lowest temperatures of these bands, or to the axis of the intrusive cold wate:r, as they may be considered between th~ warmest bands, are dotted~the strength of the dots varying as the lines recede from "the main axis of the Gulf Stream. In the Congress map the bands will be shaded-the dark shades corresponding to higher temperatures. It scarcely need be remarked that the curves a.re not drawn precisely through the points obtained on the several sections, but in no case ~ut one is the distance from any point as great as the probable> error in :th~ determina,,. tion of the points themselves, as derived from the distance of the positions as under and from the calculation of the different results given upon the trial sections, which were gone over- at different times by different observers, and upon the vari-ous lines denoting theи temperatures at the same depths.

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COA.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

51

Are these bands invariable in number and position? и If connected with the form of the bottom of the ocean, they must be so within moderate limits. But this has only been proved for the ~ctions from Charleston southward. The comparison of the.separate results on the trial sections enables us to determine this point numeri. -cally from the observations themselves; so also do the separate results as shown by the positions of the maxima and minima at different depths. The results thus deduced, -as far as they have been tried, are the following: The axis of the Gulf иStream, marked A, on the Sandy Hook section, diagram Gulf Stream, No. 1, though it recedes from the coast, as a general rule, as the depth increases, is the best determined of all these lines. In cases of the curves of the highest and lowest temperatures inиthe band, marked B, C, D, and E, where they cross the Sandy Hook section, the order of the difference is the same as that of the distance between the positions, and the probable error considerably less than the average of the halfdist!.nce between the positions in the part of the ocean where the maximum or mi~imum is found. The actual changes of position, with varying circumstances, are probably of the same order. The cold wall minimum, which generally occurs in. the'Same vertical tines from the surface downwards, is the next best determination to that of the axis of the иstream. As these are most definitely marked, and were obtained from positions much nearer each other than the other lines, such a result was to. be expected. The remark in regard to limit of uncertainty applies to the two cold streaks outside of the Gulf Stream, C and E, and to the warm one, D, between them. The position of the next warm streak is quite uncertain, and it is not inserted ori the chart, though its occurrence is well made out. In the sections where the soundings for temperature were . carried close into the coast, the same regimen of the water is shown as outside, and one.maximum inside of the cold wall is clearly indicated in all the ~ections but one. The minimum nearest the shore on the Sandy Hook section corresponds to the remarkable increase of slope in the ocean bed found in previous soundings, and represented in the sections from Sandy Hook on the -Off-shore chaxt of the Coast Survey, embracing the coast from Gay Head to Cape Henlopen. The question as to whether the different points of high and low temperatures, as they sueceed each other in the sections, should be joined to represent a continuous line, hs a difficult one, especially if the form of the bottom be admitted as controlling the distribution of temperatures1 as that form may vary so arbitrarily. , There is hardly a doubt in regard to the continuity of the first cold line B; none as to that of the axis of the stream A ; but near to this on the Charleston, St. Simons, and St. Augustine sections, follow a minimum and maximum entirely well defined on each section, and yet which is probably not connected with the next иset of similar points observed on Canaveral to the south of them, and Cape Fear to the north. There is a similar set of points on the Cape Henry section. At present the probability of the case is as I have shown it on the diagram, and any 'doubt in regard to it must be cleared up by future observations directed to thi3 point. By.: our researches at present, the position of the axis of the stream is traced to 88" W. 1 and that of the cold. wall is carried with considerable degree of probability to 85░ w_ The changes of position of the main and subsidiary streams in different years, with the seasons and with winds and other ca.uses, remain yet to be ma.de out. The observations already made show that these are considerable. The genera.I conformity of the sweep of the Gulf Stream hitherto admitted is now minutely traced, and shown W иbe more thorough even than was supposed,

52

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

passing into the hight of the coast of Georgia, deflected by Hatteras, turning in towards the capes of the Chesapeake, and, sweeping eastward, deflected by the banks which lie off the coast of New England. и . ..
SECTION IV.-FROM CAPE HENRY TO CAPE FEAR, INCLUDING PART OF VIRGINIA AND NORTH: CAROLINA. (Sxuca D.) .. и ,. . .

Three parties, each executing triangulation .Combinei! with topography, and 011e hydrographic party, have been employed in this section during the whole or a part of the past season. The secondary triangulation of Back bay, the extension of Currituck_ sound, has .been continued northward to beyond the Virginia line; that of the Cape Fear river carried to a point above the separation of its northeast and northwest branches; and the tertiary-triangulation of Core sound connected with that of previous years, going southward from Ocracoke inlet,. and northward from Cape Lookout; and the reconnaissance for the extension of the triangula\ion west of Beaufort, over Bogue sound, made. In connection with these respective triangulations, the topography of the eastern shore of Back bay, as far north as the и Virginia line; of Smith's island, at the entrance to Cape Fear river; and "of the river shore from Smithville to the head of Ea,gles' island, above Wiliхington 1 and that of the shores west of Cape Lookout, to connection with sheet of Beaufort harbor, has been executed. The hydrographic survey of the Upper Cape Fear rfrer, interior to the work of last year, was completed from New inlet to the town of Wilmington, and up to Brunswick river. Astronomical observations were made at a station in Raleigh, the State capitol, which was occupied as an intermediate point in determining the difference of longitude between Charleston, South Carolina, and Seaton station, Washington. и The details of these operations will be found in the pages immediately following this. The drawings of Hatteras and Ocracoke inlets, and of Hatteras and Frying Pan shoals, and of the preliminary chart of Cape Fear entrance, have been completed, and those of the Cape Fear and Albemarle sound have made good progress. The engraving of clJ,arts of Beaufort harbor, Frying Pan and Hatteras shoals, of Hatteras and Ocracoke inlets, and Core and Pamplico sounds, has been completed, and that и of Cape Fear has been in progress. The drawings of Cape Fear entranc~e and .New inlet were prepared, with other data, for the commission on the improvement of the entrance and river. Secondary tri"angulation.-The secondary triangulation of Back bay, lying in' North Carolina and Virginia, which had advanced as far as the line Jones' hillGray's Point, at the close of last season, was resumed by Assistant J. J. S. Hassler, in December last, and conthrned until the close of May. The survey has been extended this year northward to the line Wash Flats-Ragged island, beyond the Virginia line. (See Sketch D, No. 1.) This party was also engaged in the execution of topographical work, in connection with the triangulation, and used the и schooner Vanderbilt for transportation and accommodation. The statistics of the triangulation are thus given: number of stations occupied, eight; number of stations determined, seventeen; number of angles measured, two hundred. and ninety; number of observations made, seventeen hundred and forty. The instrument used was the six-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 52, (Brunner.). . . . . The secondary triangulation of the Cape Fear river was carried during the past season from Smith's island, line Cape Fear-Bald Head light, (see Sketch D, No. 2,) over the entrance, to above Wilmington, and the separation of the river, at the head of Eagles' island, into the northeast and northwest branch.es. This work was done by. Assistant C. P. иBolles, aided by Sub-Assistant J. ~ Gregorie, in the

53 и schoonet .Meredith, and occupied between October 15 and May 1. In its execution иthirty-six Rtations were occupied, forty-one objects observed upon by two thousand and fifty-three ci,053) repetitions, and one hundred and sixty-two angles measured. ;The area covered by the triangulation amounts to sixty square miles. The instrument used was the six:inch theodolite, C. S. No. 35, (Gambey.) This party also executed: the topography of this vicinity, noticed in its proper place, and since its 'withdrawal from the field has completed the computations of the season's work. The triangulation of Core sound was continued northward during the season over Ocracoke inlet, (see Sketch D, No. 1,) to connection with that coming southward. This was commenced.by Sub-Assistant A. S. Wadsworth in March, but the weather being particularly unfavorable to triangulation at that time, he proceeded, according to instructions, to execute the topography west of Cape Lookout, which was finished on the 18th of May. иThe triangulation was resumed, and with favorable w~ather the occupation of the four stations necessary to make the connectjon was co,lnpleted in a few days. и ~ The triangulation has an extent of eleven and a half miles-comprises an area of twenty-two and иa half square. ;i;niles; four stations were occupied, twelve angles were measured,, and seven hu.ndred and forty-one observations made with a sixinch theodolite, C. S. No. 29, (Gambey.) Mr. Bagwell aided Mr. Wadsworth in the work, the party having the use of the schooner Bancroft. The party was discharged on the 2d of June, when Mr. Wadsworth proceeded to make a reconnaissance of Bogue sound, west of the triangulation of Beaufort harbor. и Good points were selected for stations for next season's observations, and signals erected as far as Bogue inlet, a distance of twenty-five miles westward. Since the close of this work, on the 22d of June, Mr. Wadsworth finished the computations of his season's work, and has ~en engaged in the topography of York harbor, Maine. Topography.-The party of Assistant J. J. S. Hassler, engaged in the secondary triangulation of Back bay, North Carolina, executed in connection with it the .. topography of its eastern shore as far north as the Virginia line. (See Sketch D, No. L) Th~ -western slaore, arid the whole of the topography of the bay lying in North Caroli]fa, will l)e executed during !he next season. The extent of shoreline thus surveyed is thirty-seven miles, and the area covered by the work, which is embraced in two sheets, is forty-three square miles. Since breaking up his party, Mr. Hassler has been engaged in completing the drawing upon these sheets, besides the reduction of work of triangulation. The tOpography of Smith's island, and of the shores of the Cape Fear river, (see Sketches D Nos. 2 and 3,) from Smithville to above Eagles' island, was executed by the party of Assistant C. P. Bolles, aided by Sub-Assistant J. W. Gregorie, who together had made the triangulation of the river. The sheets finished comprise an extent of shore-line .equal to sixty miles, and an area of thirty-three square miles, and occupied in its execution the time from October 15 to May 1. This sheet has since been inked and turned into the office. Sub-Assistant Wadsworth commenced the topography of Cape Lookout on March 12, and working westward joiхed the topographical sheet of Beaufort harbor (see Sketch D, No. 1) on the 18th of May, comprising )Vithin the limits of the work oneи hundred and ten (llO) miles of shore-line, and eighteen (18) ;quare miles of area. Mr. Bagwell aided Mr. Wadsworth in this work. This sheet has been inked and handed in to the office. . Hgdrograpky.-A resurvey of the Cape Fear bars, to ascertain the changes which ha4 taken place since the survey of the previous year, was made soon after the date of his last :feport, by Lieut. Comg. J. N. Maffitt, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Ooast Survey. .After thi;J the survey was extended up the river to the juncOF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY J.'OR 1853.

54

REPORT

.

OF

THE SUPERINTENDENT

tion of the Brunswick river with the Cape Fear and the northwest branch to the bridge above Wilmington. This was completed in January, as will be seen by the following extract from the report of Lieut. Comg. Maffitt, which also notes the operations connected with it, and the statistics of its execution: . "A series of current observations has been made in conpection with the soundings, which will enable me to project a complete current chart. Tidal o.bservations were made at Smithville, Orton light, and at '"''ilmington. On the l4th, 15th, and 16th of January, continuous hourly observations were noted without interruption at Smithville, Orton light, Campbell Island light, Upper West Jettee, and at Pointи Peter, opposite vVilrnington, The watches were compared twice daily, as the morning and evening steamers passed each station. For this facility, as well as continuous courtesy, the Coast Survey is indebted to Gen. McRea, the presidentи of the "Wilmington and Raleigh railroad.

6.70 miles of soundings run . 37,858 soundings . . . . . 5,320: angles observed . 49 ,: .. specimens . .. 44." current observations . In regard to the changes of the bar, which ar~ 'very remarkable, Lieut. Comg. Maffitt remarks as follows: "By the 8.th of December I had accomplished the work, as well as boring for specimens at different positions on the main bar and at the mouth of New inlet. On the main bar I succeeded in obtaining specimens to theи depth of thirteen feet, and to the depth of ten feet at New inlet. These specimens were immediately labelled and forwarded to the Coast Survey office at Washington. The resun~ey of the Cape Fear bars exhibits very marked changes, which are characteristic of all sand-bars. I have observed, and had it also attested by the pilots, that a strong "northeasterly wind has the effect of deteriorating New inlet bar in depth, and the main and western bars are thereby improved; vice versa, a continuance of southerly or easterly winds shoals the main or western bars, artd improves the New inlet. The migratory character of the various shoals in the channel way over . ..these bars, renders it expedient for strangers always to employ a pilot, as the chart sailing directions cannot, under these circumstances, be relied upon for any specific length of time. A comparison of the original chart with the resllrvey will exhibit very clearly the character which I have given of the channels at the entrance of the Cape Pear river. .A general diminution is also obvious in the short space of twelve months, which, when considered with the great changes as made manifest in other surveys, is a matter of serious consideration for those interested in the commercial prosperity of Wilmington. n . On the completion of this work, on the 12th of February, the party proceeded under instructions to execute the hydrography of Georgetown harbor and Winyah bay, South. Caro]in8.i which is noticed under the head of Sec~ion V.
"No. No. No. No. No. of of of of of
SECTION V.-FROM CAPE FEAR TO THE ST. MARY'S R'IV'ER, INCLUDING THE CO.AST OF THE и .,STATES 01'' SOUTf:( CABOLlNA AND GEOBGIA. (SnTCH E.)

The progress made in this section has been quite satisfactory. In the following pages are given notice of the reconnaissance by Major Prince between the Cape Pear, North Carolina, and the Santee, South Carolina; of the observations by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., Prof. L. R. Gibbes, and Assistant 1. F. Pourtales, for connecting Charleston, Raleigh, and Washington for difference of longitdde, by telegraph; of the main and secondary triangulation between the Edi$tO base_ and Charleston, by

01'' THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

55

Assistant C. 0. Boutelle ; of the triangulation from the base on Savannah river to Tybee entrance, by Capt. E. 0. C. Ord; of the triangulat:ion of Winyah bay, Georgeи tmvn harbot, commenced by Lient. Joseph S. Totten, and completed by Assistant C. 0. Boutelle and Major Henry Prince; of th~e topography of the same locality, by .Mr. S. A. Wainwright; of its hydrography, by Lieut. Comg. J. N. Maffitt; and of the further examination of Charleston bar, and continuance of the tidal observations in Charleston harbor, by. the same officer. During the year, charts of Cape Roman shoals and. North Edisto entrance and river, South Carolina, have been published, and those of Charleston harbor, Winyah bay and harbor, of Tybee entrance, and of Savau.nah river, have been in progress. Reconnm:<1sance._:_The reconnaissance of Section IV, which had been extended in 1852 as far as Cape Fear, was resumed during the last season and carried southward into Section V, as far as the North Santee river. 'l'his was prosecuted by B..:evet Major Henry Prince, U. S. Anny, assistant in the Coast Survey, who had c:ommenced it at the limits of Section III, at Cape Henry. The coast reconnoitred during the past season was divided into three sections-the first extending from the Cape Fear river to the North and South Carolina boundary line; the second from thence to the line separating the districts known as Upper and Lower All Saints; ani;l the third from that .boundary to the North Santee river. Along nearly the whole of the first section extends a sound separated from the ocean by a narrow strip of sand-hills. Into this. sound are sever.al inlets, of which the principal are Lockwood's Folly, Shallotte, Tubbs and Little river; these were found to have from six to nine feet in them, with practicable entrances and good anchorages. The rivers in the section are mostly mere serpentine creeks, winding through marshes and swamps thickly covered with growth of black gum, tupelo, ash, oak, and pine. The points for the main triangulatio11, to be found on the sand strip above referred to, will be connected with those in the interior by cutting; which, however, is of a, much less expensive character than that already executed in other parts of this section. и The two other sections resemble each other very much in character, both differing fromи the first somewhat in the nature and number of the swamp lands; while the growth иis thicker, the value of the timber is much less than in the first section. The neck between the Waccamaw river and the ocean sound is estimated in some places at sixty feet in height; and Brown's hill, on Sandy island, between the Peedee and Waccamaw, and ..about six miles from the coast, is estimated by Major Prince at ninety feet in height. A straight line of four and a half miles, which may be use9. for a base, was examined on the Black river road near Georgetown. No good map of this region. has ever been made, and, the results of Major Prince's reconnaissance will be pre.sented on the progress sketch. In his report Major Prince acknowledges his indebtedness for the kindness which he constantly received, and the facilities for making his examinations which were everywhere afforded him. и Major Prince recommends that a small triangulation be carried first along this part of the coast, by which the s~ations for the main w9rk may be determined, .and the lines be laid off with certainty and without loss oftime or expenditure in running or. opening experimental lines. This is, in general, the system which experience ha.a shown to be the best on this part of the coast. About the middle of April Major Prince was called to finish the triangulation of ~orgetown harbor, which will be noticed in its proper place. . This was finished on the 8th of June; after which he assisted in the extension of the reconn~nce

56

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

for the primary triangulation in the State of Maine, which has been before noticed. (Section I.) и и и Astronomical observat'ions.-It will be recollected t;hat in the winter of 1850, the late Prof. S. C. Walker made a preliminary determination of the difference of longitude by telegraph between Seaton station, Washington, and Charleston, to give. the astronomical position of a point in this section of the survey. иAs that city was also intended to be used in the connection of W a~hington and New Orleans, the operations were resumed during the pa.st winter by Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., at Charleston, and by Assistant L. F. Pourtales at the Seaton station:. Repeated attempts were made to exchange signals directly between the two~ stations during the months of December and January, and untilthe middle of Febraary, the best perlod; of the year, but it was found utterly impracticable, owing to the condition of the telegraph wires and posts. It was therefore found necessary to establish an intermediate station, which was located at Raleigh, North Carolina, on the groundи attached to the State-house; privilege for the occupation of which was granted by the Hon. David S. Reid, governor of the State. . . и While the station was being erected here, Dr. Gould established a series of experiments fot further investigation of the velocity of transmission of telegraphic signals. The line used for these experiments was composed of four wir~s between New York and Washington, and thence extended to Petersburg, Virginia. Dr. Wolcott Gibbs, of New York, .volunteered to .assist in the experiments at that place, and P!of. J. F. Frazer those in Philadelphia, which were made on the nights of the 18th and 22d of March. The results of these observations are now being reduced, and will be specially reported upon. The station at Raleigh having been completed, on the 3d of April Dr. Gould commenced the adjustment of the instruments, and at the first opportunity thereafter the e:xchang~ of signals with Mr. Pourtales at Seaton station, and with Prof. Lewis R. Gibbes,who took charge at the Charleston end of the line. These observations were continued on every clear evening, when theJmsiness of ~he line permitted1 until the 14th of May, when the required number were _ob~ed. These consisted in the exchange of thirty-four transits of stars with Washington on four nights, and of fifty-nine with Cliarleston on the same number of nights. Transits of sixty-five circumpolar stars with reversal, and of one hundred ttnd nineteen zenith and equatorial stars, were taken, and other observations made for determining instrumental corrections. . The instruments used were, at Charleston, too transit instrument, C. S. No.' 8, Kessel's clock, and both Saxton's and Morse's registers; at Raleigh, the transit instrument, C. S. No: 3, and the zenith telescope, C. S. No. 1. This instrument was also used in observations for latitude of the station, which was determined by иeighty observations upon fifteen pairs of stars. Carefu~ reference of the station was then made to the State-house to give its latitude and longitude. и Personal equations in observing, between Dr. Gouldи and Mr. Pourtales, were determined at the Seaton station, and between Dr. Gould and Prof. Gibbes through a. eoroparison lllftde by Assistant иC. 0. Boutelle at Charleston with ProБ Gibbes, and with Dr. Gould at Cambridge. J)uring th~ occupa.t!on of the Char~eston stati<?n, and previous to the .establishи ment of the intermediate ohe at Raleigh, one hundred and one observat10ns were made for time a.nd instrumental adjustment. . ии . .и .. и Since the close of these operations, Dr. Gould has been engaged in the reduction and discussion of their results, in which he has been assisted by Mr. K L. .Lane, who also aided him in thecampaiga . . .и . и; и. . .ии Dr. Gould ha.s also sinee. been engaged in a thoro-.gltenmination and disc~

OF THE UNITED БTATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

57

of the results of the Coast Survey observations for the determination of personal equations. The use of the lines employed in the above work was granted gratuitously by the respective presidents, Elam Alexander and William M. Swain, Esqs., to whom our best thanks are hereby returned for their liberality. и Dr. Gould also acknowledges the efficient aid rendered by. the various operators in the Charleston, Raleigh, Columbia, and Petersburg telegraph offices. . Primary triangulation, and secondary connected with it.-Assistant C. 0. Boutelle resumed his work of the two last seasons in the extension of the primn,ry triangulation between Edisto .'and Charleston on the 20th of last December, aided by SubAssistant B. Huger, jr. The first work was the tracing and opening of the line Elliott's cut-Charleston light, (see Sketch E, No. 1,) which was completed by the 8th of January. 'l'he signw at the station at Elliott's cut having been prostrated by a severe i,.torm of the autumn of 1852, Mr. Boutelle next visited that point to restore it, which was done in a substantial manner, and with considerable improvement in the mode of erecting the signal. This accomplished, the party moved to Mathews' station, and commenced the observations there on the 28th of March, completing them on the' 11th of April. Much cutting was reguir~d in furtlier opening the line Mathews'-New cut, which had been commenced in 1852. The party then moved to East base, to occupy that point and obtain additional observations to the number it had been practicable to take in its previous occupation. The satisfactory number was had, and the station finally co111pleted on the 3d of May. While finishing the primary work of the season, and opening the line Elliott's cut-New cut, Mr. Boutelle was called to execute the secondary triangulation of Georgetown harbor, the necessity for, and results of which are given under another head. In the occupation of the two primary stations, Mathews and East base, forty-two ( 42) anglef> were measured by two thousand one hundred and thirtysix (2,136) observations upon twenty.nine (29) objects. . The instruments used by M:r. Boutelle were a ten-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 43, (Gambey,) and an eight-inch, (Gambey,) C. S. No. 24. Mr. Boutelle repeats his acknowledgments to the proprietors ofJlie ~nds over which his work extends, for offering him every facility of working"fn f!fe opening of lines, &c., in furnishing means of transportation from point to point, and in many other ways repeatedly extending to him their kindness and hospitality. As heretofore, the secondary work has been advanced in connection with ~he primary, and was resumed at the limits of last year, and carried along the Stano river and over James' island towards the secondary triangulation of the W admela.w as far as tbe line Prentice-Wilkes. (Sec Sketch E, No. 1.) It was very much desired to bring these triang11lations to a connection at Church flats during the past season, but any further time devoted to them would have interfered with the pri-mary work which had been laid out. The same instruments were used in this as in the foregoing work-the ten-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 43, (Gambey,) und a sixinch, C. S. No. 24. Eleven stations were occupied, and eighty-one angles measured upon eighty-seven objects by five hundred and thirty-five observatio'ns. The triangulation of Winyah bay and Georgetown hn,rbor (see Sketch E, No. 1) hadи been commenced by Lieut. J. S. Totten, and prosecuted with zeal until the entire prostration of his health compelled him to abandon it, which he did, yet reluctantly, about the first of May. It was very desirable to complete this work, and before the sickly season, and it was therefore necessary to call upon Mr. Boutelle and Major Prince to push it to completion. It was first proposed to divide the operations, assigning to the latter officer the triangulation of the upper part of the ba.y1 ~and to Mr. Boutelle the lower part to the entrance; but upon coniultation

s

58

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

between those officers, they determined to work together, taking up the upper part of the bay first, pushing it on more rapidly because in conjunction, and thus get into the healthy neighborhood of the sea before the sickly seMon. This was done, and the triangulation completed to the entrance on the 7th of June. The base line selected by Lielft. Totten in the lower part of the bay was adopted and measured, and upon it the triangulation extended on the scheme proposed by that lamented officer, who had commenced the work. Sub-Assistant Huger, and Mr. C. B. Baker, aided in this work. The statistics show that nineteen stations were occupied, and two hundred and ninety-eight angles measured upon two hundred and forty objects by two thousand six hundred and ninety-six observations. Since the close of the work in this section, Mr. Boutelle has, with the assistance of Messrs. Huger and Baker, brought up the computation required by it, and, in connection with Major Prince, has extended the rec~naissance for the primary triangulation in Section I nearly to the boundary. и The secondary triangulation of Georgetown entrance and vVinyah bay (see Sketch E, No. 1) was commenced about the first of last January, by Lieut. Joseph S. Totten, U. S. Army, assistant in the Coast Survey, ~ided by Mr. C. B. Baker. Some delay experienced in procuring a vessel for the party, but they finally succeeded in getting the schooner Ozella, of Baltimore. The reconnaissance for the triangulation was immediately commenced, points selected, and signals erected. The site for a base line was chosen, and Lieut. Totten about to commence its measurement and the observations, when, about the middle of April, his health, which had been very delicate during the whole season, had so materially failed, that at the earnest solicitation of his friends he reported his inability to continue it, and from that time became dangerously ill. His condition seemed to justify the hope that he might yet be able to reach his home while living. This hope was vain-he died on the passage to Baltimore on the 14th qf :May. A meeting of his follow-officers of the Survey was held in Washington to pay a tribute of respect to his memory, the proceedings of which are given in Appendix No. 44. Mr. Boutelle and .Major Prince took charge of the party and completed the workи и и и which has been noticed above. The triangulation of the Savannan ri"r, which was left last year at the line Proctor-Fort Jackson, was resumed in March last by Capt. E. 0. C. Ord, U. S. Army, assistant in the Coast Survey, and carried from the base on Union Causeway as far as the line Magnetic Point-1Iungen. . (See Sketch E, No. 4.) The work was continued until the 11th of June, when the advance of the season rendered it impracticable to prosecute it further. The area covered by this triangulation amounted to thirty square miles; eleven hundred and seventy-six (1, 176) observations of secondary horizontal angles were measured, and fifty-six (56) tertiary. The instrument used in these observations was an eight-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 36, (Garn bey.) и Upon the dose of his field-work in this section, Capt. Ord returned to the office, and there finished the computations required of his season's observations, and turned them into the office previous to his departure for the Western coast to take charge of the triangulation of the Santa Barbara islands. Topography.-To complete the survey of Georgetown harbor during the season, a topographical party was detailed to follow immediately the triangulation as it advanced, and from these points to furnish at once shore-line for the hydrography. The survey was commenced on the 1st of April and continued until the 22d, when the party broke up, having finished the required shore-line, amou~ting to sixty-four and a half miles, extending on both sides of the harbor .from the city to the ent1'1l.llce of Winyah bay. This was executed by Sub-Assistant S. A. W ainwrlght,

was

0}' THE tJ'NITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

59

иwho obtained the means of transportation from the tender Bouncer, of the hydrographic party, through the kindness of Lieut. Comg. Maffitt, to whom the vessel belongs. M.r. Wainwright since his return to the office has been engaged in inking the sheets of this work, and in preparing for work during the coming season Hydrography.-The hydrographic survey of Georgetown entrance and Winyah bay, South Uarolina, (see Sketch E, No. 1,) in connection with the other: operations in that ~ection, noticed above, was made by the party of Lieut. Comg. Maffitt, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey. This was commenced 011 the 14th of February, and completed on the Gth of May, when the Crawford, the vessel used by the party, was despatched in the Gulf Stream explorations, which had been previously noticed. I quote extracts from the report of Lieut. Comg. Maffitt upon the execution of the Georgetown work, giving statistics, &c. "On the 12th of February I sailed for Georgetown, South Carolina, and arrived on the 14th. As soon as the signals could be erected, the survey of the bar and Winyah bay was commenced and vigorously prosecuted to its completion on the 6th of .May. The bar of Georgetown, like the southern bars in general, is subject to constant changes; the absence of previoos reliable surveys prevents a comparison by which the changing character of the bar can be judg@d. Two new channel-ways have recently come into use, both of which will be fully delineated by the Coast Survey; and, with the assistance of buoys and landmarks, can no doubt be navigated with greater facility than the old channel. The evidence of all the pilots goes to prove that 'Mother Norton' shoal is rapidly increasing in a southeasterly direction, which naturally presses the last quarter of the ebb-tide more to the eastward, with the tendency, it is presumed, to improve the northeast or new channel. I am informed by the residents on North island that Lighthouse Point is rapidly wearing away. The pilots also assert that the flat about the northwest buoy is shoaling; and, also, that the Great dry breaker has increased vast!y in area for the last ten years. Positive evidence of this, as "иell as of the change in the main channel, is clearly demonstrated by my finding and determining the site of the two old range-beacons which twenty years ago marked out the channel. That range now strikes across the middle of the Great dry breaker, where .the level of the sand at low tide is, at present, twenty inches above thиe surface of the Wll.ter. The increase of the Great dry breaker has forced the main channel to the westward, to the destruction of an inner channel, called the Goose Neck channel. At the steamboat wharf on South island I established a permanent tide-gauge, and also one of the same character at Georgetown. The observations were made by reliable and careful men, da.y a.nd night, and the watches regulated by a meridian m&rk. An iron gauge was driven into ,the water at the lower end of the bar, but the general roughness of the sea prevented the nice comparison l had anticipated. Great attention was given to this gauge. A full system of curи rent observations was carried out in the bay and at important points on the bar. "Number of miles of soundings run "Number of angles observed "Number of specimens "Number of soundings "Number of current observations 598 9,850 90 68,520 16."

The office-work of this party has advanced well in plotting and reducing tho sheem of this and the previous section.

60

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDE~T

SECTIONS VI uo VIL-FROM TITE ST. -~llRY'S RIVER TO ST. JOSEPH'S BAY, COAST OF FLORIDA. AND L.'iCLUDING THE FLORIDA REE!<' AND KEYS, AND FROM ST. JOSEPH'S BAY TO MOl:HLE POINT. (SnTCHEs Fиun G.)

The work in Section VJ has made satisfactory progress during the past year, and as much has been done in Section VII as our means permitted, there being no particular appropriation for it. Unless the work is systematically commenced in this section, and prosecuted on a similar scale to that of other parts of the coast, it will be found beginning when the others are completed. I have represented this , for some years, and have taken advantage of the possible diminution of expenditure in other parts of the coast to introduce an estimate for this section, without swelling the total amount of the Coast Survey appropriation. When these means are received, the work in Section VII will be pressed forward. The importance of a complete survey of St. Andrew's bay has been especially pressed upon me, but the means at my disposal permitted only the completion of the survey of the entrances to Apalachicola, and-some general and sp~cial reconnaissance, which will be stated in detail in its place. The triangulation of the Florida l'eef and keys has b~en extended from above Point Etizab~ to Point Charles; the topography from Soldier key to Old Rhodes key; and a minute topographical survey and marking of the keys east of Key "\Vest has been commenced. The hydrography of the reef has advanced to near Turtle reef; and soundings for temperature of the Gulf Stream have been made. In occupying a position off Cape Canaveral, a temperature as low as 38░ Fahrenheit was found at the depth of one thousand and fifty fathoms; showing that the cold water from the north underlies the warm water even in this latitude of 2Bt 0 и Lieut. Comg. Craven, in making the sections of the Gulf Stream across the axis of the stream from Cape Canaveral, (June 9,) after leaving soundings on the shbre .and crossing a very deep interval, where no bottom was had at one thousand and fifty fathoms, found bottom on the eastern side at four hundred and sixty fathoms, and struck the bank or ridge thus discovered in the sections made across the stream from Saint Augustine, Ossabaw entrance, and Charleston. The Gulf Stream explorations have been more particularly noticed in connection with each other in another part of this report; and a more fu]l account is given of the discovery just mentioned in that connection, and in the Appendix No. 17. A complete survey was made of the entrance to the St. John's river, to furnish data for judging of the practicability of improving the bar ; and the _operations are stated, under their several heads, in the part of the report on this section which gives the details. . Of Section VI, a preliminary chart of St. John's river entrance and Fort George inlet, and sketch of the western coast of Florida, have been published within the year, and additions made to chart of Key West, scale Trro!o 00 ; a chart of Key West, scale 50 , 'o-00 , and of Florida keys and reef, No. 1, have been in progress. Of Section VII, sketches of Channel No. 4, Cedar keys and St. Mark's harbors; of east and west entrances to St. George's sound; and of the reconnaissance of St. Joseph's and St. Andrew's bays, have been issued within the year; others resajting from the past season's work in the section have been in progress. I have continued the investigations of the tidal phenomena at Key West, with some interesting results. The discussion, as far as it has gone, will be found in Appendix No. 2 7, in a paper read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at their meeting in Cleveland. The tides are intermediate in their type, between those of the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico. . While they ebh and flow twice in the twenty-four hours, like the Atlantic tides, the difference in height of the two consecutive high or low waters is very considerable, amounting a.t a

OJ!"THU UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

61

mean to nearly half a foot in a tide of one foot five inches, and reaching ,nearly ten inches when at the greatest. The method of wave interference, which I applied to the tides at Cat island and Fort Morgan, has also been used in this, and compared with the ordinary '!nodes of reduction of which these tides admit. The difference in height of two consecutive high tides exceeds, at a mean, that of two low ticl.es, in the proportion of four to three nearly, or the diurnal inequality in the height of low water is but three-fourths that of high water at this place. The diurna1. inequality in the interval is not large. The mean interval between the time of the moon's transit over the meridian of Key ~'est, and the time of high water, (the correctecl establishment,) is nine hours and twenty-two minutes; the greatest interval exceeds this, and the least falls short of it, by thirty-four minutes. Theory shows that these tides correspond to the transit next but one before the time of high water, but practically this is not a matter of importance. I have been able to trace from these observations the two tides of long period pointed out by ~1* Airy as resulting from theory, the one having half a lunar month for its period-the other, half a solar year. This result is clear, although in part masked by the effect of. the ииdnd, the regularity of which, !n tfiis region of the trade winds, is striking. Reccиnnaissance.-The reconnaissance in Section YII has been extended by Assistant F. H. Gerdes by a general examination of St. Andrew's sound and of the adjace:1t coast, including St. Joseph's bay, of which the sketch is incorporated in that of the Section, Sketch G, No. 1, and by a special reconnaissance of St. George's sound, in reference to the selection of points of triangulation, from South Cape to Cape St. Blas. и Triangulation.-A preliminary survey of the entrances into St. George's sound, (main or west and middle entrances,) Florida, h~s been executed by Assistant F. H. Gerdes. (See Sketch G, No. 2.) In this work two astronomical statio11s were occupied, and observations made upon seventeen sets of stars, with a transit instrument for time, and upon six pairs of stars with a zenith telescope for latitude; magnetic and azimuth observations were also made. In the trjangulation, two prelim~nary base lines were measured and twelve stations occupied. About twelve miles of shore-line were surveyed with a plane-table, and general soundings made of the bars, entntuces, and outer harbor. The depth of water on the main or western bar was found to be thirteen and a half feet, and on the eastern fifteen. Mr. Gerdes has furnished the following maps and sketches, resulting from his season's work in Section V JI: Map of th~ main or west entrance of St. George's sound. Map of the middle entrance of St. George's sound. и Map of the special reconnaissance of St. George's sound from South Cape to Cape Et. Blas. Sketch of reconnaissance of St. .Andrew's and of the coast including St. Joseph's

hay. The statistics of his work a.re given in

th~

following table :
For azimuth.

I I

1 Observations with For time with zenith te~ transitinatrument.

I

Magnetic varl&и tion.

St. George'и ialand ии---ииии-ии----- ---и16pairs of ataraи. 12 star&--иии--и Every 5 m. for 2 h .. Dogialar.ld---и--и-и-и---ии---и-ии---ии 3ditto---и~и-и- 6 ditto ии _______

-11 pointipg. и-----ииии--ии-ии--и11 ditt.o.

62

REPORT OF THB SUPERINTENDENT

Mr. Gerdes was assisted during the season by Mr. J. G. Oltmans, and used as means of transportation and accommodation the schooner Gerdes. The topographical operations ofи this party are referred to under their proper head. и The triangulation of the reef and keys has been continued southward and westи ward along Key Largo, during the past season, by the party of Lieut. James Totten, U. S. Army, assistant in the Coast Survey. The work was commenced at station EL Camino, above Point Elizabeth, on the 18th of December, and was carried as far, as Point Charles, (see Sketch F, No. 1,) within Rodriguez key, before the 28th of April, when the party was transferred to the vicinity of Key West to fftrnish points to the eastward for the topographical party of Sub-Assistant R. M. Bache, engaged in surveying and marking the keys for the General Land Office. Lieut. Totten was assisted during the season by Mr. C. T. Jardella, and employed the schooner Petrel. He gives the statistics of his season's work as follows:

и

I I и.:::
Д
a.
t

~~ I tJ

'o .Дc
~g
1

~.; = ~ .:i e~

4 _

.o
~.;
Q

~ 0 -~ -~

'"C1~,.!:

,.Q

. . ._ c.. iii

и
'
1

T
I

~ I .~. ии...;i

=
be

I

cg i:

V~e!n~tyof~eyLa.rgo .. --ииииииииииииии1--19-1 --1-,-146-I! VtolIDty of Key West. иииии и---иии-- ии-иi 14 , 586 , Total ииииииии ._ иии.иии ., ии.ииииииии 1--33-J 1,732 I

I ....

z

o~

~t

~~иa - ~ ~ ~e

~~ri)

__ z_ _
3,531

o~

i
rl

;: .... ao

;.~ ~

I

~,$

== ~c s:
0

8 : ~

~!e.l
.9 ~ .s

.;.~ .
~
w.,)

<I

s1s~
13987.4 19525. 9 !

i:::
~00

a~~ =

_,..;:; _ __

6,9651

I

110.941 108. 91

I

!

642.5 1284. 4

10,4961--2w.9J,-.---i----

The instruments used were the ten-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 27, (Pistor & Marи tens,) and six-inch (Gambey) C. S. No. 55. Lieut. Totten, in reporting his work to the eastward of Key West, makes some interesting remarks upon the climate, quality of soil, and general character, which are appended to this report. (See Appendix No. 18.) The triangulation of the entrance to St. John's river, of Fort .George inlet, and of the island between, was made in the early part of the season, by Sub-Assistant G. A. Fairfield. A base line, of one thousan<l and eight metres. in length, was measured upon a sand-spit of Fort George island, from which the triangulation was carried, embracing the entrance to the river, and including the first bend above Mayport mills; thence across to the Fort George inlet and to its entrance. (See Sketch F, No. 2.) The work was done between the latter part of January and first part of March, and included the occupation of eleven stations, and the measи urement of one hundred and five angles upon eighteen objects, by eight hundred and sixty observations. The instrument used was an eight-inch theodolite U. S. C. S., No. 36, (Gambey.) The observatious were computed as. the work advanced, and the results furnished to the topographical and hydrographic parties, who immediately followed in execution of their portion of the survey. Hourly observations of tides were made day and night, at both entrances, to ascertain the differences in the times of high and low water, and in the progress of the tide in the two. The gauges were placed in positions as nearly similar as could be, and the observations иwere made with great care. Topography.-The topography executed by Assistant Gerdes, in Section VII, during the pa.st season, has been of the ma.in or west entrance into St. Gem;ge's,

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1Bu3.

63

focluding the town of Apalachicola, and of the middle entrance into St. George's sound, including Dog isla.nd. The amount of shore-line on the former sheet is equal to fifteen miles, and on the latter, to nine. '1 hese sheets have been inked by Mr. Gerdes and handed into the office since his return from the southern sections, and before taking up the topography of the Hudson river, upon which he was engaged during the summer. .Mr. Gerdes remarks upon the importance of the harbor of .Apalachicola, in his report, as follows: "The harbo.r of Apalacpicola, to which both the entrances surveyed lead, is most important, and only second to Mobile, on the Gulf. There were twelve ships anchored at the East Pass, and six near the town, although the business season is nearly over. "The town exports 150,000 bales of cotton; the commerce is therefore considerable; and as both inlets have been very little known, and erroneously located, their survey seems to attract great attention and to give satisfaction here." The topography of the Florida keys has been continued during the past season by two parties. That of Sub-Assistant I. H . .Adams commenced at Soluier key, the first south of Cape Florida, and completed two sheets, embracing that key, R;agged key, Sands' key, Elliott's key, Old Rhodes key, Crernr's c1иeek, and ten small keys inside the creek. (See Sketch F, No. 1.) The party took the field about the end of November, and continued until .April 15, when the appropriation originally assigned to it was nearly exhausted. The extent of shore-line snrveyed amounts to seventy-three and one-fourth miles, and the area covered by the work to ninety square miles. и Mr. .Adams describes these keys as follows: "Soldier key.-This island, which is iive and a half miles below t!ie light-house at Cape Florida, is very small, being only two hundred metres, (218. 7 yards,) and about one hundred in breadth, and is formed of coral rock, with a thick growth of mangrove around the edge, the inside being partly cleared. The next group of keys south is called 'The Ragged Keys.' T~ey are five in n:imber, and from four hundred to five hundred metres in length. The ouwr edge is partly of coral and partly of mangrove, growing out of deep mud. '' Sanrls' key is next below, and is about one and a half miles long. For one mile from the northern end it is three hundred иtres in width, and widens at its lower extremity to three-fourths of a mile. The outside is generally of coral rock, with small intervals of mangrove, extending thickly to the water's edge. In all these patches of mangrove the mud is very deep and sticky, which makes it difficult to get near the shore. The greater portion of the inner shore of this key is of a very deep soft mud, although in a few places the coral extends for short distances. Tho southern shore of this key makes one side of Sands' cut, which is not more than fifty metres in width. It is important as a guide to vessels coming into this harbor from outside the reef. и "Elliott's key (next below) is nearly seven miles in length, and varies from one-fourth to one-half of a mile in width. The outer shore is of coral rock, with mangrove and sea grape. This beach is quite good for several miles, and there is not much mud of any great depth. The inner shore was much more difficult to trace accurately from the small number of triangulation points, and from the greater amount of mud, which I found .increased as we proceeded south. The creek below Elliott's key (Cresar's creek) is six hundred metres at the entrance in width. There is a fine harbor on the outside for vessels drawing from six to eight feet, and it is considered the best on this part of the coast. On the inside there are ten keys opposite the opening of the creek, varying from four hundred to five hundred metres in length. Several of them are three or four hundred metres in.
1

64

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

breadth. To these keys I was obliged to give names to distinguishи then frcm. those below. и ".A.dams' key is the most northerly, partly covered with mangrove, north side of coral rock. "3Бeigs' key, small and covered with mangrove. "Reid's key, small and covered with mangrove. "Rub~on keys, surrounded by very dBep mud. "Porgee key, very dense growth of mangrove: "Totten's key, very dense growth of mangrove, and very deep mud all round. "The next key (south) is Old Rhodes key. It extends two and a half miles below Cresar's creek, and is from one-half to three-fourths of a mile in width, and covered 1vith thick mangrove growth. Insirle of this key is a lagoon, three-fourths of a mile wide, and about two miles in length. It is filled with a quantity of very small keys rising from deep mud. There are twenty of these иkeys. Totten's key, which is on the western side of the lagoon, is one and a half mile in length, and three-1ourths of a mile in width. For some distance from the shore it is almost impossible to get a boat through the mud." There being no vessel belonging to the survey available for this party, Mr. Adams chartered the schooner Colonel De Russy to furnish the necessary trcnsportation. :Mr. C. :M. Bache assisted Mr. Adams cluring the season in this work. Since leaving the field, Mr. Adams has been engaged in inking his sheets and bringing up his work of the winter. The sutveying and marking of the keys for ,the General Land Office was commenced as early as the means could be obtained, in April, by Sub-Assistant R. M. Bache. The work was begun at Boca Chica and the adjacent keys lying to the east of Key 1Vest, (see Sketch F, No. 3,) embracing on the sheet an extent of shoreи line of forty-five miles, and an area. of nine square miles. иwith reference to th~ i~land, .M:r. Bache thus speaks: "Only a small portion of the island of Boca Chica appears to be fit for cultivation ; but the survey has shown that there are only two inconsiderable outfats to a very large lagoon in the island, and, ~nsequently, that it can be readily co~werted into a very valuable salt pond. There is another lagoon on the island of about the third of the size of the one just mentioned, and with the same facilities for converting it into a salt pond." и ... During the early part of the winter, the plane-table party of Sub-Assistant R. M. Bache was employed in the execution of the topography of the shores of the entrances of the St. Johns and Fort George inlet and the vicinity, within the limits of the triangulation. (See Sketch F, No. 2) The amount of shore-line surveyed was forty-six miles, and the area covered by the work was about thirteen square miles. The party had the use of the Coast Survey schooner Hassler, for purposes of transportation. и A complete map of the survey of these entrances and immediate vicinity, together with the information respecting the tides, has been furnished to Lieut. H. G. Wright, U. S. Corps of Engineers, who had been intrusted by the War Department with the duty of devising a plan :K>r the improvement of the entrance into St. John's river, under the act of Congress of .August 30, 1852, making appropriations for river and harbor improvements. Hydrography.-To make complete the survey of the entra.nce to the St. John's river and Fort George inlet, Florida, the hydrographic party under I.ieut. Comg. T. A. M. Craven, U. S. Na~y, assistant in the Coast Survey, immediately followed

the other parties, and executed the hydrography of the vicinity. (See Sketch F,

OF THE UNITED ST.A.TES COAST SURVEY Fon 1853.

65

No. 2.) The vessel employed was the steamer Corwin. The statistics of the work, which occupied from the first of March to the middle of April, are thus given: Number of angles measured 616 Number of soundings made - 9,271 .Miles of soundings run 188 Area sounded out, in square miles 17 Observations of tides were made at two stations, and of currents at nine. и Upon the completion of this survey, the party of Lieut. Comg. Craven proceeded to the continuation of the hydrography along the general reef The sheet of this year's work joins that oflast year at 1'riumph reef; (see Sketch F, No. 1,) ancl extends southward to near Turtle reef. It includes the soundings off Elliott's key, Old Rhodes and Arsenikcr keys, Long reef, Ajax reef, and Pacific reef. This work was done during the month of May and part of June, aml covered an area sounded out, of one hundred and thirteen and a half (113!) square miles; seven hundred and four Leen (714) miles of soundings were run; forty-three thousand five hundred .and four ( 43,504) casts of the lead taken; and one thousand eight hundred and eight (1,808) angles measured. Light-lwnse examinations, &c.-A special examination of the Coast Survey sig. и nals along the Florida reef, of their site, and the practicability and cost of making them permanent for the use of navigators, as provided for in the act of Congress of August, 1852, was made by Lieut. Totten, and his report thereon was communicated to the department under date of November 3, and is given in Appendix No. 52.
SECTION VIII.-FROM MOBILE POINT TO VERMILION BA.Y, lNCLGDING THE COAST OF A.LABA.MA,
MISSISSIPPI, AND PART
O~'

LOUISIANA.

(SxETcB H.)

An extended reconnaissance has been made in this section, combining the operations necessary to furnish preliminary charts, with those for the progress of the work itself. Special reconnaissances of some of the more important bays west of the Mississippi have al~o been made, and preliminary charts and sketches founded on these and the work previously mentioned accompany this report. The unи certain character of the information in regard to this part of the coast, and its increasing commerce, rendered such determinations desirable, and next in order of importance to the regular operations intended to connect Mobile and New Orleans. These have steadily advanced: the secondary triangulation from Lake Borgne westward, and the plane-table survey following it closely. The signals for completing the connection with New Orleans are erected, and their occupation will complete this division of the work, until it may be expedient to pass further up Pontchartrain. It seems now probable that the main triangulation can be carried more readily from the head of Lake Borgne to the coast, at the mouth of the Mississippi or its vicinity, than round by the Chandclcur islands. The hurricane of .August, 1852, was reported to have made changes in parts of the coast of which the hydrography had just been executed, and of which charts had been prepared for publication. This proves, however, to be the case to but a limited extent, as will be seen from the detailed account of the progress of this section. Nassau roads and Horn Island,Pass showed no ~onsiderable changes. The examination of Ship shoals Louisiana, off Isle Derniere, has been one of the most useful results of this seaso~'s work, and has been thoroughly executed by a land survey, with astroи nomical determinations, which will form a part of the general survey of the coast, and by mim1te hydrography. This will provide the information necessary to enabfo the Light-l1ouse Board to determine the important question, submitted by law
9

65

REPORT OF THE.lilUPERINTENDENT

to them, in regard to the best mode of warning navigators of their approach to these dangerous shoals in the trnck of commerce between New Orleans and the ports of Texas, and to which public attention has been of late years especially drawn by the loss upon them of the steamer Galveston. The hydrography of Mississippi sound has been carried westward, and the entrance of Pascagoula river closely surveyed in reference to the question of the location of a light-house there. Five sketches and preliminary charts of localities in this section2 besides the general sketch of the coast, will accompany the report of this year. The tidal observations referred to in my report of 1851, as forming part of the series for the Gulf of Mexico, have been executed_ There are, now, results of hourly observations for a year of the tides at Fort Morgan and Cat island, and for four and two months respectively at the mouth of the Mississippi and Isle Derniere. It is almost unnecessary to say that the tides of the last-named stations belong to the single-day class ; and that when their relation to those of the more elaborate series east and west of them is established, data will be furnished for computation without the necessity for multiplying the observations at the stations themselves. The results have been workod up in the office, as far as practicable, as tho observations were reported. и и The second edition of chart of Horn Island Pass; preliminary sketch of Mobile bay, small scale, and of Ship shoal, Louisiana; Grand Pass ; Barataria bay ; entrance to Timballicr bay; and diagrams of tides at Cat island, have been published during the year; and charts of Mobile bay, Nos. I and 2; Mississippi sound, Nos. 1 and 2; and sketches of Nassau roads, Chandeleur islands, have been in progress. llel',0nnal,ssance.-The general reconnaissance of the coast of this section, of the bays, sounds, lakes, adjacent islands, &c., for the purpose of dctennining the scheme of triangulation, was resumed during the past season, by Assistant F. H. Gerdes, and extended westward from the Delta of the Mississippi to Point au Fer, at the entrance to Atchafalaya bay, including the bays of Barataria, Camisade, Lafourche, Vermilion, Bonne Terre, and Caillou. (See Sketch H, No. I.) With this reconnaissance were connected determinations for latitude and azimuth, and of longitude by chronometers, to famish a preliminary sketch of this impor~ant part of the coast, which is imperfectly laid down in existing charts. Observat10ns for magnetic variation were also made in the same connection. Special reconnaissances, including a preliminary triangulation and topograp~i cal survey, and the essential soundings, were made of the entrances to Baratana and Timballier bays, (see Sketches H Nos. 4 and 5 ;) the reports in relation to which, containing many valuable details, are given in the Appendix, Nos. Hl and 20. On each of these sheets one point has b'een occupied as an astronomical station. It was originally determined to turn the main triangulation of the coast of Louisiana southward between the Chandeleur islands and the main; but subsequent exи amination having led to the opinion that it could more advantageouBly be carried acr.oss the main from the head of Lake Borgne to the Delta of the Mississippi, Mr.и Gerdes was instructed to make a more minute examination, and to report the plan of triangulation resulting from it. This ha.s in part been executed during the present season. A survey of Isle Derniere was made for light-Muse purposes, including the measurement of a short ba.$e triangulationt the determinations of latitude and azimuth, the.difference of longitude by chronometers, and the topography of the island and its vicinity. The points thus established and the shore-line were furnished at once to Lieut. Comg. Sands, for the execution of the hydrography.

OF TIIE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1863.

67

Mr. Gerdes has furnished, as resulting from the work of the season in this section1. A preliminary sketch of the coast from the Delta of the Mississippi westward to Point au Fer, with reconnaissance of the principal bays. (See Sketch H, No. 1.) 2. A preliminary chart of the entrance into Barataria bay. (Sketch H, No. 4.) 3. A preliminary sketch of the entrance into Grand ~ass, Timballier bay. (Sketch H, No. 5.) 4. A topographical survey of Isle Derniere and its environs, for the chart of Ship shoals, Louisiana. (Sketch IT, No. B.) 5. A sketch of the reconnaissance between Lake Borgne and the mouths of the Mississippi, for the extension of the primary triangulation of the section. :Mr. Gerdes gives the results of his work in these general and speeial reconnaissances, as in the following table of statistics:
Observations with senith telescope. For time. For azimuth. Magnetic rnriation. Shore-line.

With tmnfritinstrumen,t.

Barataria hRy,(FortLivingston.) Isle Dern.iere ииииииииии

6 pair of stars. 21 pair of stare.

12 etars.
62 stars.

2 pointings.
6 pointings.

Every 5 m. for2 h.
E'l'cry 10 m. for 4 h ..

12 miles.
33$ miles.

Tirnballier bay .ииииииии

...... ...... .... .... ...... ....

W1th sextant.

12 st11rs и
<,

...................... .......................

I

5 mlle11.

Secondary tJиiangulation.-The progress of this part of the work, notwithstanding the exertions of Assistant S. A. Gilbert, who has had charge of it for the past four years, has, from the difficult character of the country through which it passes, ancl the obstacles to ready vision from point to point, been comparatively 8low. The diagram (Sketch II, No. 1) shows its progress along the shores of Lake Borgne and over the extremity of that lake, and the scheme for its extension to New Orleans, and over Lake Pontchartrain (see Sketch H, No. 1) to near :Madisonville. All the signals for this extension have been erected, with .the exception of one in the centre of the lake, which it has been found desirable and practicable to construct, and for which Mr. Gilbert has devised a very ingenious plan. The opening of the lines necessary to connect the city of New Orleans with the triangulation, was a tedious part of the season's work. By an accident occurring in the opening of one of the lines of the triangulation in the early part of the season, Mr. Gilbert was disabled for more than a month and a half, thus throwing his work into a less favorable part of the year. Mr. Gilbert reports great difficulty in the preservation of the station points on the south and east shores of Lake Borgne, as many oft.hem necessarily placed near the water are liable to its encroachments. Proctor's Point, on Lake Borgne, has been washed away to the extent of fifty or sixty feet in two years. He has taken pains to secure the IJoints as far as practicable. The party has had the qsc of the schooner G. M. B,p.che for transportation during the season. The area covered hy this triangulation amounts to one hundred and eighty-nine (189) squЦ~ miles; the number of stations occupied fifteen, (15) and the number of ang1es measured at them, foTty-seven, (4 7.) The instrument used in these observations was a ten-inch Gambcy theodolite, (U. S. C. S., No. 23.) The reconnaissance covers an area of three hundred and ninety-six (3!.IG) square miles.

68

REPORT OF TIIE SUPERINTENDENT

Mr. Gilbert, upon closing his work in this section, and finishing the computations required, has been employed in the execution of plane-table work in Section I. Topograplty.-Assistant Wm. E. Greenwell, who has executed the topography in this section from its commencement, in 1847, resumed that portion of the wOI'k in November last, and continued until May, commencing at Isle au Pied, and extending along the southern shore of Mississippi sound and Lake Borgne nearly to the western limit of the lake. (See Sketch H, No. 1.) Two sheets were completed, comprising an area of ninety-eight (98) square miles, and an extent of shore-line of four hundred and twenty-five ( 425) miles. Re-surveys were also made of part of Ship and Dauphine islands, to ascertain the changes produced by the hurricane of August 23, 1852. Mr. Greenwell was assisted in this work by .Mr. William M. Johnson, and used the schooner Phceuix as means of transportation and accommodation of the party. In his report upon the character of the topography of this region, Цr. Greenwell speaks of the great changes in the position of the shore-line, thus : . "From the experience of the past year, I find that the lake shores of this region, and so likewise the sound shore running from Isle au Pied to Malheureur Point, are fast being cut away, and at the rate of seventy-five to one hundred feet per annum. "What is worthy of remark also is, that whilst these inland shores, subject to the fierce northers of the winter, are being washed away, the eastern shores of this marshy region, though washed by the heavy waves of the Gulf, are gradually encroaching upon the sea in neaTly the same ratio. "This last may be attributed rnainlr to the under-tow, which is constantly throwjng up sand-banks and reefs outside, which serve to check the force of the waves, and behind which de:posites are being made by the eddy at each succeeding gale, until this gradually rises above the surface and becomes linked with the main shore itself. This mn.ss of sand, shells, &c., is so firmly cemented, as it were, with the marsh mud, as to resist without wash the heavy swell from the Gulf." Mr. Greenwell repeats his remarks upon the great resources of this country in the article of lumber, and the facilities and inducements for an active and profitable trade in it, which were quoted in my report of last year. He notices the very considerable improvement of the country, and the increase of villages and towns along the coast from Mobile bay westward, and speaks of the recognised value of the information obtained from the Coast Survey results in this section as guides in projecting and maturing these improvements. In the course of the season Mr. Greenwell made an examination uf Dauphine island, for the purpose of ascertaining what changes had been produced there by the great storm of August, 1852 ; and also to examine the condition of the termini of the base line measured upon this island, and for the additional security of which, stepfi had been taken by him in the course of the previqus year. The facts which he presented are such as to require a re-examination of the site of the western terminus, which will be made by Mr. Gerdes, who assisted in the measurement of the base. There is at present an opening into Mississippi sound through the island, lmt not deep enough to he of value to navigation, and one.which it is supposed will close again. 'l'he west e:pd of the island is still incr.easing in extent. About two miles of the east spit of Petit Bois island has been cut away, opening a new channel, through which from twelve to eighteen feet of water can be carried into the Gulf. This channel will prove one of great importance to the vessels plying between New Orleans ancl Mobile, as they can, through it, go from the smooth wnter of Mississippi sounrl into Mobile bay with only ten miles of outside sailing.

0}, THE UNlTED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

69

Hydrography.-The hydrographic operations in this section have been conducted by Lieut. Comg. B. F. Sands, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast survey, in the Coast Survey steamer Walker. Considerable attention having been attracted to Ship shoal, Louisiana, (see Sketch II, No. 6,) lying in the track of vessels bound from the northern shores иof the Gulf and X ew Orleans to the Texan ports, and upon which the steamer Galveston was lost, and a special appropriation having been made for a survey in connection with the determination of the site of a light-house, Lieut. Comg. Sands was instructed to make a thorough and complete survey of the shoal and adjacent waters as the first work of the season. From his report on the subject, I quote as follows: "The position of Ship shoal in the track of vessels plying between Texas and New Orleans, makes it a very dm1gerous one. It shoals suddenly to five feet on the inshore or northern side; the three-fathom curve extending east and west eighteen miles, with a mean breadth of three miles; the northern edge being nine miles from the nearest land, Itacoon Poi.nt, Derniere island. "'~he approach on the northwest and north side is dangerous, a,nd vessels plying between it and the shore should be careful with their lead-line, and go no nearer than four fathoms, from which depth the water shoals rapidly to nine and five feet. There is a channel of five and six fathoms along the northern edge of the shoal, which would serve as a guide for vessels beating along the shore, taking care to tack on their southern course before shoaling from four fathoms. The southern and eastern approach is very gradual from three fathoms." A special report, by Lieut. Comg. Sands, on this locality, with reference to the site and necessity of a light-house, will be found in Appendix No. 54. An examination of the entrance to Horn Island Pass, to ascertain whether any changes had been made there by the hurricane of August, 1852, next received attention. After a thorough resurvey of the locality, Lieut. Comg. Sands "found that some of the shoal lumps had been knocked away, taking from the approach some of its dangers, renderin~ its channel easier of access, but not otherwise changing its depth or rendering it necessary to alter the sailing directions." The square beacon had been washed away, but he erected in its place a large tripod with a barrel on the pole. Nassau ron,ds, at the north end of the Chandelem; islands, was next examined to as'certain what effect the Bame storm had produced upon the passage th ore, and whether any changes bad taken place since the survey of May, 1852. No maJerial change was found to have occurred in the hydrography of the roads since that time. The light-house had been destroyed by the sea from the northward. undermining its base ; and there is some slight change of the topography of the point. As the dwelling of the keeper is still standing, it :ijlay be used instead of the lighthouse in the sailing directions, as it was adjoining the tower. The issue of the charts of ~ assau Roads and Horn Island Pass, which had been suspended in consequence of the doubt in regard to changes, will now he made at once. It had been reported that. d channel had broken through Ship island; but upon examination it was found that if such had been the case it had filled up again, not being enough water for a whale-boat to pass through at high water, spring tide. Upon the completion of the above examinations, Lieut. Comg. Sands resumed the general hydrography of the section in .Mississippi sound from the western limit of the work of last year, the meridian of Round island, and externle<l it to a line between Bellefontaine aml a mile west of the western point of Horn island, (see Sketch H, No. 1,) including a survey of the mouths of the Pascagoula river, for the purposes of the Light-house Board. It was intended that oiЦsid~ work should

10

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

have been done, but the boisterous character of the weather and other circ-qmstances preve"nted the execution of this part of my instructions. After the completion of the work in Mississippi sound, Lieut. Comg. Sands, on his way from Section VIII, made an examination of the small passage between Pelican and Dauphine islands, which wa..<>, a few years since, used by the steamboats plying between Mobile and New Orleans, and which had been reported as closing. The information derived is a.s. follows: . "Considerabie change had been made by the gale of August, 1852; altering tlie shore-line, and shoali"ng the pass instead of deepening it, as was reported. A narrow passage of three feet was cut through the middle of the narrow spit of sand running towards Dauphine island, and the northern point was cut off and joined to Dauphine island, making a point where the shore-line was before nearly straight, jutting out towards Pelican island, leaving but six feet in the channel; and steamboats were using the old channel between Greart and Little Pelican instead." The statistics of the work of the party for the season are given in the following tabfe:
Area. Miles of Number of Sets of
angles. soundings. :casts of lead.

Horn id11nd ии--ии --- иии и-ии иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Nasl!llu roads ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии

M1ss1se1pp1 иound ии - ииииииии иии-ии --ииии ииии ииииии--ии иии- ии-и ииии-и

~p_sh?al:-ииии -----и -ии- ии-ии ииииииииии ииииии ииии иииии- ииии ии--ии

200 65

923 247
113

15

35,275 17,(){;3 6,706
10, &45
69,079

l,122
633
249

16
296

147
1,430

315

2,219

Surveys of sires for Light-houses, &c.-Examinations and surveys of Ship shoal and Racoon Point with reference to the location of a light-house, and at the entrance of the East Pascagoula river, were made by the same party, special reports of which will be found in Appendix Nos. 54 and 53. The hydrography of Ship shoal was based on the map of Assistant F. H. Gerdes, a full report of whose work on lsle Derniere and the vicinity is given in the Appendix No. 21. Titks.-The observations of the tides of the Gulf of Mexico, which had been prosecuted in the preceding section in the earlier part of the season, were continued westward into this section, where two stations have been occupied. Observations were made hourly, day and night, by Mr. Gustavus Wurdeman, at the Southwest Pass into Mississippi river, for four lunations, and at Racoon Point, near Ship shoal, Louisiana, for two lunations. The results show the usual care Which has characterized Mr. Wiirdeman's ol>servations.
SECTION IX..-FROM VERMILION BAY TO THE BOUNDARY, INCLUDlNG PA.RT OF THE COAST OF LOUISIANA, AND THE COAST m~ TEXAS. (8.uTou I.)

The organization of parties in this section has been as in the previous year, except that an astronomical party has taken the prace of a topographical party, and two additional tidal observers have been employed. Determina.tions of latitude, ~imuth, and of the magnetic elements, have been made at two stations. The secondary triangulation has advanced over a part of Matagorda. bay. The topography has been carried from the Brazos to Cany creek, a.t the head -0f the same bay. The hydrography of Galveston bay has been continued i that of San Luis Pass and bay, an'a of the Rio Grande entrance, has been completed.и ~i nations for the sites of light-houses have been made at .A,x:ansas pass, and at the entrance of th~ Sa.liiine river. Three tidal static:ns have b~ oecupied. и . и.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOB 1853.

71

The details of these operations are given under the several heads just referred to. A chart of Galveston entrance, and of San Luis Pass, a prellminary chart, on a small scale, of Galveston bay, and sketches of Aransas Pass, from a re-survey, and Sabine Pass, have been published during the year. .Astrorwmical and magnetic observations.-The eastern иtermi.ims of the base line measured in this section, on Galveston island, in 1850, and Jupiter tria11gulation station, near Quintana, mouth of the Brazos, (Sketch. I, No. 1,) were occupied during the past seiis"on for observations of latitude and azimuth, in connection with which, moon culminations and magnetic declination, dip, and intensity, were also observed at each station. Assistant G. W. Dean had charge of the party, and made the observations, in which he was aided by Sub-Assistant B. F. West. The observations for latitude were commenced at station East Base on February 19, and continued until the 22d of March, when those for azimuth were commenced. Although the elongation mark was erected on a hill rising a few feet above the. general level of the prairie, .and only about one mile and a quarter from the station, yet, on account of the very great movement of the atmosphere, much difficulty was experienced in observing upon it. The azimuth of this mark was connected with the triangulation of the section, and all the other observations necessary were completed by the 30th of March, and the p~rty was transferred to Jupiter station-a primary point in the triangulation in the vicinity of the town of Quintana. The preparations for the occupation of this station were finished on the 20th of April, when the observations for latitude and time were commenced. On the 4th of May those for azimuth were commenced, and with favorable weather were finished on the 16th of that month. The elongation mark was at a distance of about three-fourths of a mile from the station, and approximately in line with Velasco primary point. Two severe gales occurred during the season, one on the 14th of April and the other on the 2d of May, which somewhat retarded the work, and caused some slight damage to the camp equipage; but in both instances, in consequence of the precaution taken by Mr. Dean, no injury at all was sustained by the instruments. These gales were very severe, and their effects were felt heavily by the shipping along the whole coast. . The work executed by the party is thus given by Mr. Dean: "At station East Base, Galveston island. For latitude, 150 observations upon 57 stars with zenith tele8cope, C. S. No. 5, (Wurdeman.) The stars were arranged in 33 sets, 22 of which were from the Greenwich and 11 from the B. A. catalogue. "The 22 sets from the Greenwich Twelve Year catalogue gave, from the preliminary computations, for the latitude of the instrument - - 29░ 12' 53".05 :▒: 0".11 "The 11 sets from the B. A. catalogue gave и 29░ 12' 53".82 :▒: 0".20 " Combining these results by giving weights inversely as the square of errors: "Latitude of zenith telescope и 29░ 12' 53 11и 24 " Reduction to geodetic station и - и O". 51 " Latitude of station и 29░ 12' 52". 73

,"The probable error of a single observation was 0".35. "The value of the micrometer of the zenith telescope was determined by one hundred and ninety-six (196) observations upon Polaris at western elongation. For loc~li,ime, eighty (80) observations were made upon sixteen (16) stars selec.ted fromиtit&Mti.utical Almanac and Greenwich catalogue, paired as high and low. The instrumel)~ nsed was a forty-eight-mch transit, C. S. No. 4, (Troughton & Simms.) "On .a.coount of unfavorable weather, only three moon culminations were observed.

t2
и

:2EPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

"For azimuth, one hundred and seventy-nine (179) observations were made upon Polaris at eastern and western elongations and lower culmination; also upon Lambda. Ursre :Minoris at lowest c;ulmination, with one hundred and eighty-four (184) obserи vations upon the elongation mark. For the connection of the mark with the trianи gulation, one hundred and four (104) observations were made. The instrument used was the twenty-four:inch theodolite, C. S. No. 2, (Troughton & Simms.) "Eor magnetic declination, one hundred and twenty-five (125) observations were made, upon six different <lays, from which the variation waaи determined to be 8░ 52'.4 E., and the diurnal movement of the magnet 8'.5. . "For horizontal intensity, two sets of vibrations and deflections were observed with magnet C. 32, and two with magnet S. J, upon two different days. For moment of inertia, two sets with each magnet were observed upon, the same day. The values of magnet scales were determined with declinometet D, by Jones. "For magnetic dip, three sets of observations were made on three different days, the instrument used being the dip circle C. S. No. 4, (Barrow ~ Co.) и " The mean dip obtained from the results of these observations is 57░ 40'.4. "For total magnetic intensity, two sets of observations were made on two different days with Lloyd needles. "At Jupiter station, near Quintana, the following observations were made: For latitude, one hundred and forty-nine (149) observations upon sixty-five (65) stars, arranged into thirty-seven (37) sets, and selected from the Greenwich Twelve Year and B. A. catalogues. "The fifteeu sets from Greenwich catalogue gave, from the preliminary caleulations, for the latitude of the instrument - - и и '28░ 54' 49".60 ▒ 0".10 and twenty-two sets from B. A. catalogue gave 28░ 54' 49".64 ▒ 0".23 "Combining these results, giving weights inversely as the squares of the errors; "Latitude of instrument 28░ 54' 49".61 8 "Reduction to geodetic station ~ - .. 0 .87 " Latitude of station,. 4

28░ 54' 48". 74 --и----

"The probable error of a single observation was O". 26. "For time, seventy-seven (77) observations were made upon fifteen Nautical Almanac stars, paired as high and low stars. "For azimuth, one hundred and nine (109) observations.were made upon Polaris o.t lower culmination, and one hundred and twenty-six (126) observations upon the elongation mark, in five pmiitions of the instrument. "For magnetic declination one hundred and thirty-five (135) observations were made on six different days, from which the variation was determined to be 8░ 55'.4 E., and the diurnal movement 8 8. и "For horizontal intensity two.sets of vibrations .and deflections were observed, with magnet C. 32, and two .with magnet S.. J, npon two different days. For moment of inertia, two sets with each magnet were observed upon the same day. "For magnetic dip four. sets were observed, w.hich gave the following mean re~ suit: 57░ иn' 7"; besides one in various azimuths to test the axes of the needles. "Two sets were observed for intensity with the Lloyd needles on two different days. "The instruments used at this last station were the same that were employed at station East Base. и и z, A meteorological register was kept at both stations, in which two hundred and three (203) <>hservations of the barometer ~d wet and dry bulb therpiometen were recorded." и и
1 и

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

и

73

Operations were closed at this station on the 17th of May, when the party returned from the field. The instruments being properly disposed of, Messrs. Dean and West were engaged in the computation of their season's work until the end of July, when Mr. Dean was called to my party, in Sectioul, ::W. assist in the observations in the primary triangulation, in which duty he has Mfrm since engaged. Mr. West, who had been upon detached duty to Mt.и WQ$hington, after the attachment of Mr. Dean to my party, returned to Portland~'.Suffering from disease, which finally assumed a typhoid form, and terminated hi.a life on the 25th of August, just as he had reached twenty-one years of age. Re- was an efficient and promising young officer, and wa!? much esteemed and beloved by his associates and those with whom he was thrown in the performance of his duty. The loss which the Coast Survey and his friends have sustained in his untimely death, is expressed in the resolutions' adopted by them, and given in Appendix No. 45. Primary and secondary triangnlation.-These branches of the work have been under the charge of Assistant James S. Williams, aided by Sub-Assistant S. C. McCorkle, and during part of the season by Mr. G. W. Parrish. The reconnaissance of last year for the triangulation over Matagorda bay, which had extended just beyond the eastern end of the bay, was resumed on the 14th of December, and carried westward to the Colorado river. (See Sketch I, No. 1.) Mr. Williams, in his report, says the "Bay of Matagorda is admirably suited for triangulation; its width is convenient; there is no timber near it, except on the Colo. rado ; and the depth of water within one hundred yards of the shore, (usually two and a half to three feet,) admits the econom;r and convenience of using vessels." He further says: "From the mouth of Cany creek southwestward, a sandy strip, not anywhere more than a mile wide, extends for sixty miles to Pass Cavallo ; this separates the Bay of :Matagorda from the Gulf of Mexico. The average width of the bay, for ten miles from its head, is not more than two miles; then it suddenly opens to a width of about four miles; and this continues very uniformly to this place, (Matagorda.) The northern shore of the eastern part of the bay is marshy, and extends back in a prairie far enough, as I judge, to include the interior points of the primary triangulation, giving sides of twelve to fifteen miles. "Fortunately, there is a piece of dry prairie accessible from the bay, which gives a good position for a secondary point to be connected with ' Kenner,' the westernmost point of my last year's reconnaissance." The reconna.issa.nce was closed on the 15th of February, when the party was divided-Mr. Williams to occupy the points of the primary triangula.tion, and Mr. McCorkle those of the secondary. In the occupation of station West Base, Mr. Williams met with very unfavorable wea,ther; and on the 2d of May a violent hurricane s11ddenly came up, which prostrated the camp and the observing scaffold, and so injured the instrument-the fourteen-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 53, (Brunner)-that the further continuation of the primary work was rendered impracticable, and Mr. Williams commenced the plane-table work which had been .assigned him for a la.ter part of the sea.son. The secondary work was ou.rried from the line Rhodes-Cany, westward, to Bath-Live Oak. (See Sketch I, No. 1.) This was continued until June 8, in which time eight stations were occupied, and thirty-nine (39) angles measured, by one thousand and four (1,004) observations. The instrument used was the six-inch theoilo,lite, C. 8. No. 56, (Ga.mbey.) и ;: Tn. '~O:'!'ing statistics a.re given by M.r. Williams in his report : . l!furn~.:.()f_eta,tions occupied, nine; a~ 1!1-easured, forty-two, ( 42 .i) obse~a. tions ~:.Qn.e tho_n~9. five hundred aad mne, (1,509 ;) are~ of triangula.t10n,

one hundred and thirty-1\ree a.nd three-tenths (133.3) square miles.
. и10

74

REPORT OF THE SUPERihENDENT

Since the return of the parties from the field, Mr. Williams and Mr. McCorkle have made the computations of the season's work. Topography.-The storm of May 2d, before referred to, having deprived Assistant Williams of the ~s of extending his triangulation, he removed to Velasco and took up the ph:i.ne..~'b:Ie work west of the Brazos, .continuing it to Cany creek, (see Sketch I, No. l,)ii~r the head of Matagorda bay, which was reached on the 8th of June. The sheet embraces ari. extent of shore-line of forty-six (46) miles, и, and covers an area of .Rf.enty (20) square miles. Mr. Williams, since his return from the field, has inked this sheet and turned it into the office. Hydrography.-Lieut. Comg. Craven, who had charge of the hydrography in this section in 1852, having been transferred to Section VI, Lieut. Comg. H. 8. Stellwagen, detailed as chief of a. hydrographic party, was assigneP. to its continuance in the Coast Survey schooners Morris and Belle. The woi:k remained under his charge until the close of May,_ when he was called north for the survey of the Nantucket shoals; leaving the party under command of the senior officer, Lieut. John Wilkinson, U. S. Navy, assistant. The first work of иthe season was in San Luis Pass and bay, which was executed by the party in the schooner Morris. In regard to the bar at this place, Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen remarks: "This bar is a pretty good one; the water nearly the same depth as Galveston; the course straight in, and but a little distance to run. The anchorage inside is . limited in extent, but has accommodated considerable shipping; and when the canal connecting Oyster bay with the Brazos river is completed, it will probably be the export harbor for a large and productive region of country, as the ba.r at the mouth of the Brazos in a great mes.sure obstructs the outlet in that direction." While the Morris was at work in San Luis bay, the Belle was engaged in Galveston bay, completing the hydrography there. An examination and survey were made at the mouth of the Sabine river, and a re~examination made of Aransas Pass, with a view to the location at each place of a light-house. These are referred to under their appropriate heads. Upon the completion of these surveys, the schooner Belle was laid up a.t Galveston, and the pa.rty in her transferr.ed to the Morris, for the purpose of bringing the whole force to th.e completion of the hydrography of the entrance to the Rio Grande river. The survey was made in connection with the operations of the boundary commission, and in pursuance of arrangements made under the sanction of the commissioner by .Major W. H. Emory, a8tronomer and surveyor of the commission, intended to avoid the necessity for a double survey of this locality. The failure to receive my first instructions, the injury sustained by the sehooner .Morris in the hurricane of May 2, while at Galveston, and other circumstances, threw this work into a late period of the year, and made its execution particularly difficult. It ia, therefore, due to Lieut. John Wilkinson, to whose energy and perseverance the success of the undertaking is due, that I should express the high sense :whfoh I entertain of his efforts, and the ability which insured his success. и. , . The operations were closed on the 20th of Augiisti and it he.ingrdesirable to avoid a long sea voyage in' the then condition of the Morris, she was tit.ken to P.en. SACol& for repairs.. My instructions, directing the vessel to he ta.ken to :Key West, had not been received. Finding that an epidemic prevaileil a.t p.,~l\i Liev.t. Wilkinson transferred part of the <>fficers and the crew of. tile Morris to a. brig ready to sail for New York, a.nd dett\.ched the other ofti~ from tb,e veS&el, 'Willeh was la.id up under the cha.:rge of ship:-keepers. A~t иSurg~a иB~ lfAo ,remained at.the naval. hospital at PensacQla., diedol ~- prev&il.i.tig fever..:. -Taи

OF THE UNITED STATES. COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

75

highly esteemed and accomplished medicar officer had for several years been attached to the Coast Survey, and his loss is most deeply lamented. The injuries to the Morris in the hurricane at Galveston, measurably interfered with the progress of the season's work, especially that designed to have been executed on the outside. и :╗ и The amount of work executed is, however, satisfactoQ-, as is shown by the annexed table of statistics giving the results:

..

Miles of i Number of soundи Number of angles. soundings. j ings.

!

Area sounded out.

-----------------1--~~1-~~~-l-~Glllveeton bay и и и и и и и и и и ии и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и . и и и и и и и и
~

400!

Luie...... .иииии иииии. иииии. ии ии и ии. иии . ии . ии. и.и. Aran- Pua.......................................... S~bine.... ииииии ииииии ии и ..ии ииииии .ии . ии. и ииииии ии ииии
Rio Grande ии и иии и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и ии и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и

213!
18!
100 и

7!

I
I
f

i

Tota.I......................................... ....

--------1----741 /
40, 1952, 008

. 5,085

19,180 14,758 3'JO 852

750 884 17 4.1 376

80 7!
1

l.f 8f
98.f

Surveys for st"tes of light-houses, &c.-In accordance with the instructions of the department. a re-examination was made of Aransas Pass, to determine the expediency of placing there a light..house or a light-boat. The result of the examinat_ion shows that while the depth of water on the bar has remained very nearly the same, the channel has changed its position nearlj"the whole breadth of the pass since 1851, when the first survey was made by Lieut. Comg. Craven. (See Sketch I, No. 5.) These changes are so frequent and great, that it seems very evident that a fixed structure cannot be erected to answer the purpose of guiding vessels over the bar, and that a light-boat is necessary for that purpose. My report on the subject, transmitting that of Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen, who made the examination, will be found in Appendix No. 56. Th~ survey ttnd selection of a site at the entrance to the Sabine river for a firstclass light-house, appropriated for in the act of Congress of March 3, and referred by the department to this office, was ma.de by Lieut. J. WilkinsoM. .A. site was selected well calculated to answer the general and localи purpos~s for which the light-house is intended, and its position was indicated upon a sketch transmitted to the department in my report of J1tly 12, also given in Appendix No. 55, (see Sketch I, No. 2,) with the report of Lieut. Wilkinson, and a letter from Lieut. Montgomery Hunt, light-house inspector of the district. Tides.-The irregularity of the tides at Galveston required that the observations should be continued there to obtain the necessary information in regard to the tj.se and fall, and to trace the progress of the tide-wave in the Gulf. It was also deemd necessary to compare these results with determinations at the immediate entrance of the bay, at Bolivar Point, and a self-registering. tide-gauge was established there for the purpose. The reductions are made in the office as the results come in, a.nd the records of the tw:o ga~ge::; compared. Considerable progress has been made by Mr~ Beaton, of the tidal party, in the computations of the observations и At Galveston. A tidal station has been established. at the mouth of the Rio Grande, in connec~ioo. иith "tlm survey of that entrance, and for continuing the series on the Gulf of

'MeE.oo. .

Th-e "O~ioos half "been ma.de by .Mr. G. Wurdeman, of the Coast Survey, who hM tilsservced the titles at several stations in the Gulf, and takes great interest

.

-,,.

76

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

in the progress of solution of this 1mportant problem of the Gulf tides. The promptness and fidelity with which he has devoted himself to these observa,tions insures their accuracy and reliability, and has entitled him to repeated acknowledgments. Other pointsи itt this section are embraced in the series he occupied as tidal stations to ascertain ~~J~rhenomena of the tides in the Gulf.
SECTIONS

x

AND

XI.-comOF CALIFORNIA, A.ND OF OREGON AND WASHINGTON TERRITORIES.

Prior to the date. o.f my: last report, the surveying parties on the Western coast had furnished a prelimiiiary reconnaissance, with sailing directions and other hydrographic notes, from San Francisco to the northern boundary ; a more minute general reconnaissance, withи astronomical determinations of important points, sailing directions, and other information, from San Francisco to the southern boundary; the astronomical determinations of the positions of twenty-five harbors; capes, and headlands; preliminary surveys of fifteen harbors and anchorages; topographical surveys of eight capes or points for the selection of sites for light-houses, and for purposes of defence, in some cases with the hydrography in connection. The maps, charts, and sketches founded on these, which have been engraved and published, have been twenty-seven in number. A list which shows the particulars of this progress is given in Appendix No. 8. The operations of the past year have been directed especially to the completion of the more minute hydrographic reconn.aissance with astronomical determinations of the principal points from San Francisco to the northern boundary; to the resurvey of Humboldt and Columbia riv.er entrances, and to the survey of Umqua.h, and several minor ports and anchorages; to a commencement of the survey of the Santa Barbara islands, and their connection with the coast; to the continuation of the survey of San Francisco harbor, in connection with the systematic work on the coast, extending it north and south from that point; to additional astronomical determinations, and to further examinations and surveys for sites of light-houses. The details of these and other results obtained by the parties will be given under the head of the several operations. A systematic series of tidal observations has been commenced, intended to develop the phenomena of the tides along our entire Western coast, stations for prolOnged. series of observations being selected at the most suitable points, as far as the unsettled character of parts of the country will permit, and to be connected by observations at intermediate stations of a more temporary kind. The present organization on the Western coast includes two triangulation parties; an astronomical party, with instruments for triangulation and for magnetic observations, and an assistant for topographical work ; two topographical parties--one under the general direction of the chief of the main triangulation party ; a hydrogra.phic party, with a steamer and sailing-vessel, usually at work on different parts of the coast; and a party for tidal observations. The results are worked up as fast as sent to the -0ffice, and the notices and chai:ts rapidly published. The details for the past year will be found in the subsequent pages. ии . Charts and sketches of the reconnaissance from San Francisco to &n.Diego, &n Fra.ncisco city, Santa Barbara, Points Cmreeption and Ca.xo1 Ca,W@.a ba:rbor, Cape Mendocino, иreconnaissance from Gray's harbor to Admimty inlet, Straitsи ef и.Fuoa, Cape Flattery, and Nee-ah harbor, Shoal Water bay, and False ])Q~ h.arbor, and Cortez b~nk, ha.ve been completed within the yeat\ and eitb,er ~pи~ or are ready for publication. Charts of San Diego. bay, ~ Fra.ncisoo bay mid,и hai:hm', tmd ColuJD.bia river, and aketehes of U mquah riv.er -:~B h-.t:bor, h~r9e, -.n

m progrese.

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAST

SURY~Y

FOR 1853.

7'l

.Astrorwmical observations and triangulation.-From October until March last, Assistant George Davidson, aided by Sub-Assistant John Rockwell, was engaged in observing moon culmipations for longitude near San Francisco. During this time he also determined the latitude of Point Reyes, (Punta de lQs Reyes,} Sir Francis Drake's bay, by the zenith telescope, and the approxima~ dift'erence of longitude from San Francisco by chronometer. The lamented decease of Sub-Assistant Ruth also threw upon Mr. Davidson the triangulation for connecting the Santa Barbara islands with the main. A reconnaissance was made in the autumn of last year, and this spring a b!k'le of about six and three-tenths miles in fongth was carefully measured with rods, near San Pedro, and the triangulation was commenced. (See Sketch .T, No. l.) Observations for azimuth were made, and the former astronomical station of Mr. Davidson was connected with the work. .Mr. Davidson turned over this work to Captain E. 0. C. Ord, U. S. Army, and proceeded with the hydrographic party of Lieut. Comg. Alden to the coast of On~gon, determining approximately astronomical positions, and making sketches of the coast. The latitude and longitude of Bodega bay, Haven's anchorage, Mendocino City, Shelter cove, Humboldt bay;, Trinidad ba.y, Port St. George, Port Orford, and Umquah river entrance, were thus determined. Mr. Davidson also made the triangulation in connection with the hydrography of Mendocino City harbor, Shelter cove, Point St. George, and the entrance of the Umquah, and assisted in determining Cape Blanco reef. At the last dates from him, August 17, иhe was with the party of Lieut Comg. Alden, in execution of instructions for the completion of the survey of the Columbia river, and of part of the coast of Washington Territory. Triangulation.-.After completing the special triangulations of San Frn.ncisco and the adjacent bays, Assistant R. D. Cutts commenced the general trfangulation of the coast, induding the primary and secondary series, and with tertiary points for the plane-table parties which follow him. The site of a base about six and a third miles in length wa8 selected at Pulgas ranch, and the base measured carefully with wooden rods compared with a standard bar. Every precaution was taken to rende1: this a reliable measurement, and a report with very full details has been received Messrs. Rockwell and Custer assisted .Mr. Cutts in this work, and the latter made a profile of the base. The triangulation is connected with the base by a wellиshaped quadrilateral, both diagonals of which are determined. The progress of the trianguJ3tion to September 30 is shown in Sketch J, No. 6. During the last winter permission was given to .Mr. Cutts to return to the Atlantic States, and while at the office be rendered valuable service ia regard to the work of publication in progress, and gave minute information in regard to the coast, and the wants of commerc~ and navigation there. He returned to Section X early in May la:st. и The tempora.ry employment of Mr. Davidson, in the connection of the Snnta. Barbara islands with the main, has been stated. Captain E. 0. C. Ord, detailed to replace him, left New York on the 20th of July, and on the 26th of September had conm:1epced the w-0rk at the point at which it was left by Mr. Davidson. !fbpography.-The topographical party of Assistant" A. M. Harrison, in October, November, and December last, executed the plane-table sheeta marked Nos. X and JU, on Sketch J, No. 6, from Point Lobos, San Francisco entrance, to Point San Pedro:, .and No. VII, Coritra Costa, near Angel island, San Francisco bay, and sent $hи w the office. They next commenced the survey of Santa Catalina island, andи ma.dtt some progress in it, then removed to the coast near San. Pedro, and eo~ :the survey for light-house purposes, required by the hydrographic .party.;и .}h. ~risou. ~~ t? cont.inn& his w<?rk along the coast- to Point Aao llaevo. In July last he 1r&8 Joined. by Sub-A.ssista.nt W. :M. Johnson, who, after

78

REPO.RT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

acquiring the special knowledge-of the country which is neces8ary, will take charge of the party, relieving Mr. Harrison, who was one of the early volunteers for the Western coast, and has faithfully discharged the duties required of him there. The topography of.the coast north of San Francisco was carried from Bonita Point to within thr~e mil~ of Duxbury reef, (sheet No. 9, Sketch J, No. 6,) by SubAssistant Augustus W .. Rodgers, and sent to the office on the 15th of April last. During the time of workh!g on this sheet, efficient aid was rendered to the hydro- и graphic party engaged .in outside work, by the erection of signals for their use. Having advanced beyond'the ra.nge of the triangulation, Mr. Rodgers executed, as a basis for his work, the auxiliary triangulation to Duxbury reef, shown on the sketch, occupying five tertiary.stations. Returning in May to San Francisco bay, sheet No. '4 (Sketch J, ~o. 6) was taken up, completed, and transmitted to the office by the middle of September. During this time also aиspecial survey, in detail, was made for th{! site of a light-house at Point Bonita, and communicated. Up to September 30, the date of Mr. Rodgers' general report, he had been occupied in revising the shore-line of the map of the city of San Francisco, and in reconnaissance for the main triangulation, under the direction of Assistant R. D. Cutts. . . Under the direction of Assistant George Davidson, Mr. James S. Lawson has executed the topography of Point Reyes, bir Francis Drake's bay, and the profile of the San Pedro base, besides other work in connexion with the hydrographic reconnaissance, and as assistant in Mr. Davidson's party in the operations already referred to. Hydrography.-After returning from Oregon last winter, Lieut. Comg. Alden, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, in the steamer Active, commenced the survey of San Francisco bay and entrance, which was prosecuted as the weather permitted -until June, when the party proceeded on the hydrographic reconnaissance northward, revising the survey of Humboldt harbor, and making new surveys of Crescent City harbor, under Point St. George, the reefs off Point St. George and Cape Blanco, Port Orford, Ewing harbor, the entrance and six miles up the river Umquah. The remarks of Lieut. Comg. Alden on this recon.naissance are as follows: "We found, much to my surprise, good anchorages every night except the one before we got in here, (Columbia river.) At every stoppingplace the observatory was put up and sights obtained. .A survey of the anchomge at .Mendocino City, which is some seventy miles to the southward of that ca.pe, and of a snug cove forty miles further on, was made. Humboldt bar has been e:x:amined; the bay at Crescent City, under Point St. George, surveyed; the hydrography of Point Orford, or Ewing harbor, done; and a survey ma.de of the entrance of the Umquah, including six miles of the river. We found a good wide passage through the reef off Rogue's river, and examined those through the reefs oft" Point St. George and Cape Blanco; they are all entirely safe and perfectly practicable~ "For steamers bound north, pa.rticularly in the summer time, when it is necess&ry to keep close to the land .for shelter from the wind, which blows almost a. gale down the coast, such 'cut-offs' will prove invaluable. We have brought a. line of soundings up the coast, getting casts a.t intervals of every tWQ miles, and seldom a.t a greater distance than one mile from the shore, often within & qnrter of a mile, a.nd frequently within two or three hundred metres .of the rocks. .Soи you wjll perceive that our opportunities for giving the coast a tho't'-O'tlgh exa.minatlim have been complete. We were delayed in Humboldt seventeen. dиy&--two weelis by fogs-before we could get any sight.s a.t all, and then' .:three day.s on ~~ of the roughness of the bar, the sea breaking thew и и <entirely across.ииии 'We found the bar pretty nearly as it -was when we :SUl'V' tw-0 yeare -&g<:r; bm. I

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

79

am satisfied, from all the information I could get, that it has undergone very important changes in the mean time. "The entrance to this river, (Columbia,) the South channel-or rather what they call the Point of Sands, or North Spit-has crept down a little towards the beach; but the change is not half so great as I had been led to imagine from the reports of pilots and others. When we . came in, or rather when we made the breakers, the fog was very thick. It soon, .however, lifted a little, so that one of our marks could be discerned through the mist, and giving the north breaker, or Point of Sands, a wide berth, we crossed the bar in a quarter less five fathoms, more water than I have ever known there before; the tide, too, had been fl.owing only about one hour. There is a new channel opened into the old North channel, through the middle sands, about half way, which the pilots use now to bring vessels in, drawing twelve or thirteen feet of water; the wiud being more favorable in that quarter at this season of the year, it is found very convenient." "The entrance to the Umquah is narrower than that of Humboldt, and there is less than two and a half fathoms of water on the bar. We went in and came out иwithout difficulty, but drawing only eight feet of water." At the close of the working season last year, charts were sent to the office of Columbia river entrance, reconnaissance of the coast from Port Townsend to Columbia river, Nee-ah harbor, False Dungeness or Port Angelo, and Shoalwater bay, which were at once put into the hands of the engraver. These, with the reconnaissance a.hove mentioned, in two sheets, accompany the present report. In June la.st, the schooner Ewing, Lieut. Comg. T. H. Stevens, U. S. Navy, attached to this party, was sent to examine the Cortez bank, reported as south of San Nicolas and San Clemente islands, and determined the position and extent of the bank, finding ten fathoms of water on it. The report on this examination, which was immediately published, is in the Append~ No. 24, with a sketch accompanying it marked J, No. 3. .A very exa.ct series of tidal observations were ma.de by Lieut. Comg. .Alden at Rincou Point, in January and February of this year, and communicated. The results of my discussion of them a.re given in .Appendix No. 28, and were published in a form suited to practical use by navigators, in a hydrographic notice, also appended to this report, Appendix No. 29. и During the course of the year Lieut. Comg. Alden rendered various acts of service, which were suitably acknowledged. The survey of the city sb.ore-line of San. Francisco was communicated to the authorities of the city, and to the agent of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company. The Farallones were visited, at the request of the collector of the port, to prevent the interference of certain parties there with the contractor for erecting the light-house in the landing of the materials intended for th~t structure. иThe place where the wreck of the steamer "S. S. Lewis" occurred was visited, and a pa.rt of the passengers brought thence to San Francisco. An at- . tempt was made to render 8.'3Sistance to the clipper " Carrier Pigeon," wrecked nearPoint .Ano Nuevo. The 8.'3Sistance rendered by .Acting Lieut. R. M. Cuyler to ihe passengers of the steamer " Tennessee," wrecked near San Francisco en~ .i$ acknowledged by Lieut. Comg. Alden, in a report which is appended to .this. (Appe"1diX No. 42.) и и ~ schooner Ewing has been engaged in furnishiug transportation to ~he pa.rиt.ieaи surveying the Santa Barbara isla.nde, and in the hydrography of that vicinity,

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

and ia uecuting aomeadditionaI. work required at San Diego. .7i'de1.. ,,....!J:b.tee tidal sta.t~ ha.ve bee╗. established by Lieut. W. P. Tre>wbridge, Corps of Enafueera,, assiltant-one a.t San Diego, one at San ]francisco, and one at

80

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

Columbia river. These are furnished with self-registering gauges, and are intended as points of comparison for the intermediate temporary stations. In connection with this work, Lieut. Trowbridge will also make the magnetic observations required at the different localities. Li'ght-houses.-A minute survey of Poi1;1t Bonita, for the site of a seacoast light, was made by Sub-Assistant Augustus b\ Rodgers, under the direction of Assistant R. D. Cutts. The report of these offi.cers, with the accompanying sketch, were forwarded to the Light-house Board, and are appended to this report. (.Appendix

No. 57.)

.

Lieut. T. H. Stevens, in the schooner Ewing, was engaged, when advice was la.st received from him, in the examination of the coast near San Pedro for selecting the best site for a light-house there.
OFFICE WORK.

In the introduction to my report, I stated the иchange in the assistant in charge, which occurred in March last, by the appointment of Brevet Major I. I. Stevens as governor of the Territory of Washington, and the detail of Captain H. W. Benham, of the Corps of Engineers, to fill his place; and while paying a well-deserved tribute to the distinguished services of Major Stevens, expressed my confidence in the zeal and abilities of his successor. Captain Benham has been industriously occupied in mastering the details of the office and of the survey generally, and in repairing the losses sustained by the resignation of experienced employes, who left the office to join Governor Stevens' exploration of the northern route to the Pacific. The drawing and engraving divisions of the office suffered especially in this way; and it has required great effort to keep up their usual efficiency, and, while pressing forward the work on the more elaborate charts, to futnish the very numerous sketches, charts, and maps of preliminary surveys required for the immediate publication of current work. It has, however, been effected at but a small sacrifice of the progress of the more finished maps. The compilation of the map ordered by Congress, showing in colors the progress of the survey, has added to the difficulties just referred to; no additional appropriation having been ma.de for its execution. With the office estimates for each year is presented to the Superintendent a programme for the work of the :fiscal year, intended to provide for the execution of the work required by the results of the field parties for that year, and of such back work as remains from previous years. .A list of the probable results from the field and hydrographic work is furnished, as the basis of this, from the instructio11s of the Superintendent. Dnring the progres!l of the year, the monthly reports show the advance made in this work, and the expenditures for it. .At the close of the year1 a comparison of the work projected, and of that executed, is reported; and with the new set of estimates, a programme for the next year. Thus a systematic и execution of the details, and due responsibility for every portion of them, is insured. The divisions of the office, as naturally arranged from the character of the operaи tions, a.re: 1. Th~ computing division; 2. The drawing; 3. The engraving; 4. The electrotyping; 5. The printing; 6. The publishing, distributing, and sale; '1. The instrument making and carpentry ; 8.' The archiV'es, library, a.nd cleriettl force. Under these heads will be given general remarks on ea.eh division, ehleiiy from the report of the assistant in charge of the office, with a. statement, in generd terms, of the cha.racter gud kind of work execute"d by -each one in their severa.l di-

visions. A detaJled statement of the results prodn~,Showing the share -of ea.ch one in the labor, ~ extracted from the reports of the chiefs of the s~ ~tisious

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

81

of the office, is given in the Appendix No. 25, in the same order in which the divisions are here named. "In the computing divi'3ion-as I have found it, the best organized portion of the office proper-I am much gratified to say, that every call from parties in the field, as well as from persons not connected with the survey, has been promptly responded to, to the best of the means available. In addition to this, I have the pleasure of stating that the whole of the field-work of last year and of the present, (1853,) as far as received, has been computed, and the revisions made as far as the receipt of the computations of the observers would permit. "I would state that my own observations led me to unite in the belief of the chief, Assistant Julius E. Hilgard, that 'the industry, zea1, and fidelity of all the gentlemen engaged in the computing department, is deserving of great commendation;' as also to refer to his remark in relation to the extension, care, and improvement in the system of recording the results, made 1 chiefly by .Mr. Schott,' acting in charge of the computers for the greater portion of the time since I entered the office, to whose anxious, faithful industry I have great pleasure in testifying, as well as in acknowledging the kindly aid and valuable assistance of .Mr. Hi1gard himse.lf, the regular chief of this division, during the intervals of his field service that he has held the direct charge in the office." The general distribution of the duties of this division among its members has been as follows: The computations of latitude and azimuth were made by Jfr. E. .Nulty; their revision, and the reduction of transit observations, were made by Jfr. Jlain. 'l'he work of triangulation was computed by Mr. Werner, and revised by Mr. Rumpf, who also had in charge the registers of geographical positions. Mr. J. E. Nulty and JJfr. Wiessner were engaged in different classes of work, as demanded by its occurrence. The clerical work was performed by Mr. Hoover, who also made miscellaneous computations. Mr. Schott, when not in charge of the computing division, or engaged on special duty, made computations of astronomical work, and discussions of results generally. .A. detailed list of the computations made is contained in Appendix No. 25, marked A. "Jn the drawing division, the most important, perhaps, of all the others in the office, I have, as previously alluded to, had to regret the want of draughtsmen of the higher class, which in a much greater number, either by regular employment or by contract work, have heretofore been available for the necessities of the office for the preparation of the more finished charts. In addition to this, un!.il quite recently, there has been the still more important deficiency of a proper chief to this division. The former acting head having left in May, for two or three months a temporary charge of the division was of necessity intrusted to persons who were inexperienced in the duties; and, though under the general direction of my assistant, Captain Foster, his time was so occupied with other duties in addition to this, that the division did not show the progress so much to be desired in every case in the office. I am, however, much gratified to state, that this change having been accepted by Captain Gibson about three months ago, there has been since that time a steady improvement and a rapid progress in this division. The different branches of the work were at once taken hold of by Captain Gibson most effectively, and particularly the projects for the different charts, and for the sketches for the annual report, so indispensable for the early diffusion of the knowledge of the useful results of the survey. Of these a. large number have been prepared-all indeed, I think, that could be desired or expected; while for the more important maps, preparations are being made for getting in hand, either by contract or otherwise, all those for which we have the available material now in the office."
11

BEPO~T

OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

The duties have been divided as follows: AsEistants W M. 0. Fairfax, and M. J. McClery, and . Jfr. Joseph Welch executing the reductions of topography of the finest class, and in miscellaneous examinations and verifications; Mr . J. J. Rz'cketts and Mr. J. P. R. Meclzlin executing the first class reductions of hydrography; Jfr. (} Mahon, Mr. J. Lambert, and Mr. A. Boschke, not now connected with the office, in reductions of topography and hydrography of a finer class; and Messrs. E. Hergesheimer, A. Balbach, E. Freylwldt, L . .D. Wi'lUams, J. R. Key, W. P. Schulz, and B. Hooe, jr., in miscellaneous reductions, drawings, and tracings. Mr. W. B. Mc-, .Murtr'ie, draughtsman of the hydrographic party of Lieut. Comg. Alden on t?e Pacific coast, Mr. J. 0. Tennent, and Mr. Thomas Adams, have been temporarily engaged at different times in this division; the former of these gentlemen has returned to the Western coast, and the latter is no longer connected with the office. In the Appendix No. 25 will be found a statement by Captain Gibson of the maps and charts completed, near completion, and in progress, also the details of the distribution of duties among the members of .the division by list B, Appendix No. 25. "In the engraving division the work has -progressed steadily, and generally with much faithfulness on the part of the persons employed; and though, from the illness and subsequent loss of the services of one of the principal engravers in the office, the illness of others on contract work, and the loss of the efficient head of this division, and, perhaps, from the unusual issue of last year, we shall not be able to report for this the completion of the usual number of large and finished harbor plates; yet I expect to have prepared for this report an amount of new sketch-plates, as I learn, unprecedented as to the number and the extent of recent results of the survey which they will furnish to the country. Many of the finer maps are, besides, so far advanced, that the number to be completed and published during the ensuing year will make up, with this year, at least the full average desired or expected. "In this division, during the past month, Lieut. Hunt, of the engineers, bas been assigned to the charge for as much of the time as he could spare from his other special duties. Previously the division was under the charge of Mr. J. C. Tennent, from the month of April." The finest engraving on the large maps and harbor charts has been executed by Messrs. Siebert, Rolle, JJankworth, John Knight, Mc Coy, and Smith, the three first principally executing topography, Mr. McCoy the views, and Messrs. Kni'gltt and Smi"tli the lettering; .Messrs. H. M. Knight, lYoodward, Young, Throop, and apprentice .Evens, executing work on harbor charts, and in sanding; apprentices Oehlr schlager, Pettit, and J. J. Knight, have been engaged in practice, and in work on the sketches to accompany the annual report. The engraving executed by each one of this division is shown in list C of Apи pendix No. 25. The apprentice system bas not worked well during the past year; but Captain Benham has introduced modifications in the details which it is hoped may encourage its continuance as mutually advantageous to the office and to the apprentices themи selves. The reports given in Appendix No. 25, marked C, Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4, show the plates finished during the year, and now in progress, and all the plates which have been engraved in the Coast Survey office, or that are now in progress of engraving. "The e'lectrotyping, under the skilful superintendence of Mr. Mathiot, has continued to meet the necessities of the other branches of the office, and it is hoped that by a judicious forethought, and the successful experience obtained in joining portions of engraved plates, for electrotyping additions, the re~engraving of any

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

83

considerable portion of work once correctly executed, may in all cases be disи penscd with hereafter. "During the past year, forty-seven electrotype plates have been made; twentythree of which were 'altos' or moulds, and the remaining twenty-four bassos, ready for the printer's use. Five plates have been altered and enlarged by combining with them sixteen pieces by the electrotype process, thus expediting, in a most important degree, the printing of the maps from these plates; while the great expense of the re-engraving of large portions of them has been avoided. In addition to this, about sixty blank plates are reported as having been prepared by the electrotype process for the engraving division. " The other labors of this branch comprise the electro-gilding of nineteen deepsea thermometers, and parts of some of the other scientific instruments used on the survey, together with the making and graduating of several metre scales." The labors of Mr. Mathiot, and of his assistant, Mr. Cronin, are shown in the statement marked D, Appendix No. 25. Mr. Mathiot also rendered acceptable service in ananging the articles sent to the exhibition of the industry of all nations at New York, among which were some admirable specimens of his own skill. Through the attention of Lieut. Washington A. Bartlett, U. S. Navy, special agent for the Treasury Department, in Paris, for procuring the lens lights for the Western coast, I was placed in communication on the subject of the electrotype process with the Director of the Depot de la Guerre of France. An officer of the dtlpot had been sent to England to inquire into the electrotype processes in use there, especially with those used for copying engraved plates for maps, first introduced by the officers of the Ordnance Survey. It was a gratifying result of this communication, that the Director, (Colonel Blonde!,) in acknowledging the memoir sent to him from the Coast Survey office, observed: "The perusal of the memoir has convinced me at once of the superiority of the electrotype methods which are used in the United States. The reproduction in less than three days of a plate of large size, is an improvement of the highest importance." This letter was accompanied by an interesting account of the organization of the Depot de la Guerre, for which the thanks of the Coast Survey are due to Colonel Blondel. ''In the printi'.ng office, still under the experienced charge of Mr. O'Brien, an ample supply of the maps, charts, sketches, proofs, &c., has been constantly in readiness for all the calls fromиthe agents, for sale, for the purposes of distribution to libraries, institutions, and to individuals, and for office purposes, amounting to more than twenty-four thousand sheets in all; in addition to which there have been stretched and prepared for the draughtsmen of the office, and for the topographical parties, nearly five hundred sheets of antiquarian paper, and about sixty original topographical and bydrographic sheets of drawing-paper have been backed with cloth. In this branch of the office, it early occurred to me that much might be saved in convenience and expense, with quite an increase of usefulness, by having portions of all the charts printed upon a strong thin paper. The facility of mailing or otherwise transporting them is so much greater, and particularly for the Western coast of the United States, while the cost of the sheets being generally only about one-fourth of those on thick paper, seem to render such a course very advisable, as a most important advanced step towards distributing the charts of the Coast Survey in the most convenient manner, and at the least possible expense. I have, therefore, directed that, for the present at least, one-half of all impressions of charts of the Western coast shall be taken on such thin paper, and that about onefourth of all the other maps should be so printed. Such maps will be much more

84:

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

useful where they are preferred, as they will often be, and a great gain will result, as mentioned, in the lesser outlay for the material. "I >Yould also state that repeated efforts have been made within the last few months to acsomplish your 1v ishes for the obtaining, if possible, of some suitable strong 'cloth paper,' or cloth-Lacked paper, ready manufactured to our use, for the purposes of our draughtsmen; and even, as it has been hoped might be possiи ble, for the uses of the topographical parties and the printing office also. This, though unsuccessful as yet, will not be lost sight of in the future. 'l'he number of sheets printed by J\ir. O'Brien and his assistant, Mr. Rutherdale, are given in the Appendix Ko. 25, marked E. ",The map room, since January last, bas been under the charge of Jfr. King, whose care and faithfulness in that duty has given me much satiefaction. '1 here have been furnished from this depository during the year, as shown by the annexed list, (Appendix No. 25, marked F) for sale to the agents in the different cities, nearly four thousancl four hundred of our best charts. There have been gratuitously distributed, under the act of Congress, to literary and other institutions, and to indivfrluals throughout our own and other countries, more than seven thousand two hundred copies, making, with nearly eight hundred required in the office, more than twelve thousand four hundred copies in all. "Mr. King has also been charged with the direct preparation for distribution of the Annual Iteport of the Coast Survey; of these, besides many copies of former years, there have been gratuitously forwarded from the office, of the report and sketch-maps for 1851, the last yet received from the binder, between three thouи sand and four thousand copies. The list F, Appendix No. 25, shows that about two thousand of these have been sent already to individuals in the different States; about four hundred to five hundred to literarv and other institutions in our own country; nearly five hundred to the officers of the army and navy, and Navy Department for its libraries at navy yards and vessels; nearl v three hundred to the public press; and about one hundred and thirty have been" forwarded to European countries through the Smithsonian Institution and otherwise; while, through the kindness of the Hon. W. L . .Marcy, the Secretary of State, arrangements have been made for forwarding several hundred copies more, through our Legation at London, to commercial and scientific institutions and individuals in England, and to similar institutions and individuals of the Continental nations, through their ministers resident in Great BLиitain. " The remaining copies of the report in the offic~ are held for distribution in Texas, California, and Oregon, from whence the preparatory circulars of inquiry, &c., have not yet been returned, and for the occasional incidental calls and future uses of the office. "There have also been distributed from this branch of the office about eight hundred copies from different circulars, communicating useful information to the navigation and commerce of the country; besides nearly two thousand five hundred other printed notes to individuals and to institutions in reference to the anи nual repOTts, deemed necessary to secure them from being duplicated or lost. "In the bwtrurnent shop much labor upon the many different kinds of instruments in use on the survey has been performed during the past year, under the skilful and faithful direction of .11Бr. T'ierbuclien, with the general superintendence of l\fr. Saxton. Some seventy of the most important instruments have received repairs, including in the number fifteen theodolites, twenty-six sextants, seven telescopes, five deep-sea thermometers, two sclf~registering tide-gauges, seventeen metre-chains, besides a large number of others necessary for the work.
1

OF TIIE UNITED STATES COJ,.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

85

"In addition to this, many valuable instruments have been completed entirely in the shop, t>uch as eight self-registering tide-gauges, eight deep-sea thermometers, two plane-tables, five telescopes, three protractors, with many others, such as scales, metre-rods, a range instrument, and tools of various kinds. I cannot but consider this shop a most valuable, if not indispensable, addition to the survey, from the excellence of the work there performed, the immediate execution of it when necessary, and the undoubted reduction of the expense over the cost of the same work in private establishments. и "In the carpentry shop, where two to three persons have been constantly employed under the direction of, and including~ Mr. \Y ood, a large amount of necessary labor has been performed in the preparing of the wood-work portion of the more valuable instruments, as stamls for the theodolites, plane-tables, &c. ; the making of the accurately-fitting cases for the finer and more delicate articles ; the boxing of plates, maps, books, &c. ; with considerable work upon the furniture, drawing fixtures, record cases of the office and library, not to dwell upon the large amount of repairing required upon the dilapidated buildings of the main office. "The charge of the cleri'cal force of the office has been with ilfr. Boggs for the last six months, who has likewise attended to the accounts of disbursements, and generally very satisfactorily. The knowledge of the routine of the office possessed by .!lfr. Whyte, with his faithful services, have been of much value ; and Sergeant Uhrlandt, of the engineer detachment, has also acted for a large portion of his time as one of my clerks, in which duty he has proved very useful and reliable, as he also has in the general charge of the messengers and buildings, order and other books, with which he has been intrustcd. In addition to the gentlemen above named, 1rfr. P. 0. F. West and Jfr. J. L. Elliott have been engaged in the clerical duty of the office. " The archives and library have continued during the past year under the charge of lrfr. Snow, to whose faithfulness and systematic arrangement their availability for ready reference, and the uses of the survey, are principally due. "In the archives the tidal records have been rebound, and all original survey maps have been secured in suitable separate cases, distinctly marked for reference. "In the library, now consisting of above two thousand two hundred volumes, are found most of the books needed for the uses of the survey, and to these additions are constantly made of the best works as they are published from time to time; over five hundred having been purchased during the last two years, while quite a number have been received by donation from individuals and from scientific institutions ; and I have the pleasure of stating that the system of fo1иeign ex.change, mentioned by Mr. Snmv, I have taken measures to carry out, as I trust, to a very considerable extent, and from which I would anticipate most favorable results." Captain Benham acknowledges the special assistance derived from the general disbursing agent of the survey, Samuel Hein, Esq.; from the assistant in the\и\' eights and Measures office, Joseph Saxton, Esq. ; and from the following named officers in the Coast Survey office: Ga1Jtain A. A. Gibson, U. S. A.rmy; Lieut. E. B. Hunt, of U. S. Corps of Engineers; Brevet Captain J. G. Foster, of the same corps; and .Assistant L. F. Pourtales, in charge of the tidal party. He speaks also with commendation of the services of the clerks in his immediate office, and of the faithfulness of the messengers and watchmen. The important services of Captain Benham, in relation to the surveys of Minot's Ledge and the Sow and Pigs reef for the erection of light-houses, have been mentioned elsewhere ; as also those of Captain A. A.. Gibson, in taking views for charts of harbors in Section I.

In his annual report1 Captain Benham calls attention to the necessity for the

86

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

franking privilege by the superintendent and assistant in charge, and gives facts in relation to the matter of the strongest kind. This is probably the only bureau connected with the Treasury Department which has not the privilege, and the labor of franking which thus comes upon the chief clerk of the Treasury Department is very onerous. Captain Benham thus remarks: " In the six months from the first of July, since which. time I have directed the strictest accountability, and an accurate record of the franks used, they amount to upwards of twenty thousand; of which about eight thousand were required for the distribution of the report of 1851." I proceed иnext to notice certain computations and other work not included under the divisions of the office, but executed under my general superintendence. The valuable aid of Prof. Peirce has been secured in the improvement of the computations of longitudes from observed moon culminations. It is well known that the comparisons of observed results with the lunar ephemeris furnish only determinations of the rudest kind ; that the method of comparing observations is unsatisfactory, from the numerous results lost in practice for the want of corresponding ones; and, what is worse, from the nature of the computations. ProБ Peirce determined for each lunation of the year, by the method ofleast squares, corrections having the form indicated by examination of many years of observation, which, when applied to the longitude of the ephemeris, would cause them to differ less from the observed longitudes than the results of observation would differ among themselves. The least number for the error of observation of a lunar transit was obtained from an elaborate dis'Cussion of the observations at Greenwich, Cambridge, Edinburgh, and Washington. The application of this method to the observations of one year has proved very successful, and the further discussion is in steady progress. The interesting report of Prof. Peirce, stating his methods more in detail, is given in Appendix No. 31. ProБ W. C. Bond bas observed, by the "American method," during the past year, for the Coast Survey, fifty-five moon culminations, and has communicated observations chiefly for comparison with corresponding ones on the Western coast. The interesting remarks on the spring governor by Prof. Bond, with the details in relation to the performance of two of these instruments, are given in the Appendix No. 32. George P. Bond, Esq., of Cambridge, has directed, during the past year, the computations of the observations for difference of longitude by chr.:mometer between Cambridge and Liverpool, which had been made under the immediate supervision of Wm. Cranch Bond, Esq., director of the observatory at Cambridge, with the cooperation of Director Hartnup, of the Liverpool observatory. Mr. George P. Bond presented an elaborate plan of reduction of these results, and has caused its execution to be steadily carried forward, so that I expect to receive, early in the next year, the results of the valuable labors, in a complete form. A report of the progress already made in these computations is appended, No. 34. ProБ A. G. Pendleton, U. S. !\avy, assistant, has continued the computations of longitudes, taking up chiefly those of the Western coast, Point Concepcion, and Nee-ah bay, and of Charleston, S. C. The tidal party under the direction of Mr. W. W. Gordon, and, since his resignation, under that of Assistant L. F. Pourtales, has been diligently engaged in re-computing the older tidal observations, and bringing them into form, and in reducing the new ones M they come in. This party is under my immediate supervision for the observations and computations. Sub-Assistant George A. Fairfield is attached to it, in charge of tide-gauges, a duty in which he is assisted from time to time by Mr. Henry Mitchell. This branch of the work has been referred to under the head of the several geogra.phical sections. The office-work of the party is fully reported

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

87

in Appendix No. 25. The comparisons of the work of former years, and of theory with observation, and the special discussions, have been made by Messrs. Pourtales, Mitchell, and Heaton ; and the measurements from the self-registering gauges, the reduction of the work as it comes into the office, by Messrs. Hawley, Nes, Taylor, and :Montgomery. Lieut. A. W. Evans, U. S. Army, assistant, has also been temporarily attached to this party, and its numbers and the persons employed have varied much within the year, as occasion required, or the junior members of the survey were disposable for the duty. . Lieut. E. B. Hunt, of the Corps of Engineers, assistant, besides his duties in the office, has rendered valuable service in superintending the transfer and printing of the plates of the Coast Survey report of 1852, for the Senate. In the progress of this work, the art of lithographic transfer, in all its details, has become familiar to him, and his remarks upon the processes, placed in the Appendix No. 36, will be read with interest and with profit. When in New York, Lieut. Hunt superintended the placing of the Coast Survey and Weights and Measures articles in the exhibition of the industry of all nations. The much lamented decease of ProБ S. C. Walker left Assistant L. F. Pourtales in charge of the special computations of longitude, and of certain telegraph operations, in which he had been engaged. Mr. Pourtales has retained the charge of the Seaton station also, and of the telegraph computations referred to, while directing the labors of the tidal party. During part of the year, Prof. E. Yulee, and during the remainder, Mr. C. M. Yulee, under his supervision, has been engaged in computations of moon culminations at Washington. The whole series of five years' observations will, it is expected, be computed in a few months. The disbursements of the Coast Survey have been made with their accustomed regularity by Samuel Hein, Esq., general disbursing agent. All the estimates and the accounts of the parties pass through his hands, and after administrative examination by the Superintendent, are transmitted for audit to the First Auditor, who, after examination, passes them to the First Comptroller. Besides these important duties, Mr. Hein has discharged others, in the care of the property of the survey, and the repairs of the vessels used by the parties. The usefulness of P. B. Hooe, Esq., as clerk to the Superintendent, deserves my warm acknowledgments. Respectfully submitted, by A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. Hon. JAMES GUTHRIE,

Secretary of the Treasury.

APPENDIX.

APPENDIX No. 1.
Di.stribution of the parties oj the Coast Surt!ey upon tlic coast veying season, 1882-'.53.

of tlte

United States during t!te sur-

l Limits included in the 1
several sections.

!иt
Q "'

I

Operations.

Persons conducting the

1
I
PaRsamaquoddy bay to Point Judith, including the OO&llt

z

o.S
1 Primary triangnlatiun, and Rstrunomieal & magnetie observations.

operations.

Localities of the se\"eral operationl!.

of

Maine,

New

Hampshire, Mll.l!sachusetts, 11.lld Rhode Island.

A. D. Bache, иuperintend.1' Sebattis, Maine; geodl'tic, astroent; J. E. Hilgard, asи nomical, and magnetic observaи eistant; G. \V. Dean, tions; J.E. Hilgard, assistant. 1 &sistant. , (See also Secиtion III, and of, fice.) Blue Mountaiu, Maine; g<'udetic observations; George I W. Dean, assistant. (See also

Section IX.)
Reeonnaissance .ии C. O. Boutelle, assistant; Extension of reconnaissance to Brevet Major Henry 1 line Moose a bee, Range MounPrince, U. S. Army, tain, Maine, near boundary. assistant. (Part of season-: See also Secи tion V.) Secondary triangu- Captain T. J. Cram, U. Measurement of heights; coast lation and mea.S. Tuvographica.J Engiof New Hampshire and Maine. surement of neers, assistant. heights. Secondarytrianguи C. 0. Boutelle, as!istant; Casco bay, continued. (Part of lation. B. Huger, jr., sub-u11ea.son. See also Section V.) sistant. Topography .ииииии A. W. Lonirfellow, assist- York harbor, Maine; Portland ant; A. S. Wadsworth, harbor and al'proaches. (See sub-assistant. also Section IV.) Topography.ииииии Henry L. Whiting, 11.Ssist- Coast of Mll.l!sa.chusetts from Ipsant. wich towards Newburyport; part of Cuttyhunk for site of light-house ; vicinity of Gay Head, M11rtha's Vineyard, Massachusetts. (See also Soetion III.) Topograplty.ииииии S. A. Gilbert, 111111i.stant иии Plymouth harbor and approaches; Monomoy Point, Massachusetts, and vicinity. (See also Section VIII.) Hydrogniphy иииии Lieutenant Commanding Shouls east and. south of Nantucket completed ; south side H. S. Stell~en, U.S. of Martha's Viru.1yard, from No ии,,,MW...<. Man's Land to Mukey;et channel; Gloucester harbor, Massachusetts ; 1nin11te survey of

I

3

4
5

6

7

8

i

r

Minot's Ledge for (See

~ht-bou.e

Hoard. Locution of surf-boats. al~o Section IX.)

2*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued.

Limits included in the several sections.

Operations.

Persons conducting the operations.

Localities of the several operations.

- - - I - __P_a_и_s_a_m_"_q_u-oiJ-,-ly-и_b_a_y_,__9-r Hyd.rography. иии и Lieutenant Commanding
to Point JudithContinued. Maxwell 'Voodhull, U. 8. Navy, assistant.

10

Tidal observations. G. A. Fairfield, sub-assistant.

11
12

Views иииииииииии Captain A. A. Gibson, U. $. Army, assiatant. Inspootion ..иииии. Captain H. W. Benham, corps of engineers, IU!Iи sistant. Triangulation иииии Edmund Blunt, assMant; Lt. D. T. Van lluren, U.S. Army, assistant; Lt. A. H. Seward, U. S. Army, assistant. Topography .ииииии F. H. Gerdes, auistant ; G. G. Oltmans, aid.

II

!Point ,Judith Cape Henlopen, indudto

I

1

l

ing the coast of Connectieut, :Kew York, New Jersey, Penn., and Del. и

I I 2
1
I
I

I

Shoals north of Nantucket; Portland harbor, Maine; Plymouth harbor, Massachusetts; minute survey of Sow and Pigs reef, off Cuttyhunk. Mas~achusetts, for location of light-house. Loca.tion of surf. boats. (See also Section II.) Placing tide-gauges at Siasconsett, Great Point, Hyannis, &c. General charge of tide-gauges at Portland, Portsmouth, Boston, &e. (See also Section VI, and office.) Entrances to Salem, Newbury port, and Portиmouth, N. H., harbors. (See also office.) Examinations of vicinity of Minot's Ledge, and of Sow and Pigи reef, o1f Cuttyhunk, Massachusetts, for light-house sites. Hudson river continued from line Bear Mount, Dickerson. (Part of ~eiuon. See also Section Ill.)

I

3

Hydrography ииии.

4
$

Hydrograpby иииии Tidal obaervatlo11s.
.A1tronornical obaervations.

ill

Cape Henlopen to Cape Henry, including th<1 coaat , of Delaware, Ma- i ryland, and Vir- I ginia.

I
I

1

I

.1I ........... ~,.
3

I

and sooondary triiwguи I lation. 4 j Secondary trianJ gulation.
1

I t1on1. I Primary

n.etic

observa-

5

l

&lcondary and tertion.

tiary triangula-

Resurvey of shore-line of Sandy Hr><>k for changes. Hudson river from New York city northward. (See also Section VIII.) Lieut. Commanding Max- Resurvey of Romer shoals, Swash channel, and vicinity, New York well Wo0tlhull, U. S. harbor, for site of beacon. Re Navy, asaistant. survey of Jerиey flats. (See also Section I. ) Lieu!. Com'g R. Wain- Hudson river from junction of Captain Gedney's work. (See wright, U. S. Navy, asи aiatant. и also Section III.) и иииииииииииииииииииииии Tidal observations at Governor' Island continued. (Self-registering gauge.) L. F. Poumle1,aseistant.. Observations for telegraphic dif. ferenoo of longitude, W88hing ton and Cha.rleston, WBShing ton and Raleigh. Moon cul minations observed at Seaton Station. (See also Sections IV and V, and tidal party, office.) J. E. Hilgard, a111istant; ObservBtions of azimuth and IDl!fl netic elements at St.Ation Davis S. Harris, aid. Eastei"ll Shore of Maryland (See also Sectioo I.) Edmund Blunt, sssisiant; Completion of triangulu.tion of Chesapeake bay to th., Capel Lieut. A. H. Seward, (See also Section II ) U.S. Anny, assistant. John Farley, assistant; J. Measurements of verifieation of triangulation of outer ooas E. Hilg1>rd, assistant. between Cape Henlopen and Cape Henry. (Part of season. See also Section I, and office.) John Farley, asaistant; J. James river, Virginia, from Rieb mood ro H 11.rri11-0n 's bar con R. O!lley, aub-auiatant. tinued. (Part of season.)

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*3

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued.
I

Limits included in the several sections.

Ope rations.

Persons conductink the \ Localities of the several operaoperations. tions.

i

t-~~~~~~-1-~~~~~~~~~-I~~~~~~~~~~~~
III
Cape Henlopen t.o Cape Henry-Continued.
6

I

7

8
9
10

11
12

IV

Cape Henry to Cape Fear, coast of Virginia and North Carolina.

1

2
3

5

6

Seeondnry a~dter-1 Lieutenant Wm. P. Trow- i James river, from Richmond to t!ary triangnla- I bridge, C?rps of Engiи / Warwick bar. (Part of иenиon. tion. nee rs, assistant. : See also Sections X and XL) Secondary and ter- Captain W. R. Palmer, 1 Rappahannock river, Vir11inia, tiary triaugulaU. S. Top. Engineers, ; frc>m Fredericksburg to Port tion. assistant; Lt. D. T. Van\ Royal, nearly: reemmaissance Buren, U. 8. Army, asto mouth of river. (See aleo sistant. , Section II.) Topoirraphy ии ииии 1 H. L. Whiting, aesistimt. и 1 Verification work on Patapиco river, M<L, !lontinued. (See I also Section I.) Topography .ииииии Geo. D. Wise, nuistant; I Outer shore ofpenins11laofEastи E. F. Mason, aid. 1 ern Shore of .Mary land llll<l Yirи ginia, continued. 1 Topography .ииииии John Seib, sub-assistant ии I[ Shore-line of James river, Yirи ginia, from \Varwiek bar to Harrison's bar. Continuation of topogrnphy of Chesapeake fron1 Baek rivPr r,c.1 Newport , News Point, and shores of i Hampton Roads. Topography....... S. A. Wa.inWrliht, sub-as- i Shore-line of James river, Vir11istant. ginia, from Richmond to Warwick bar. (See also Sectiou V.) Hydrography иииии Lieut. Commanding J. J. I Outer c-0ast of Maryland and Virginia completed to Cape Almy, U. S. Navy, a&aistant. Charles ; of entrance to Chesapeuke, including both capes, nearly completed, and of the bay nenrthe entrance, continued. Hydrography. иии и Lt. Comg. R. Wainwright, James river, Virginia, from RichU. S. Navy, assutant. mond to Harrison'и bar, e<.>mи pleted; Rappahannock river. near Frederick.burg, commenced: ti<lal stations in James j river. (See also Section II.) Tidal observations.ииииии ииииииииииииииииии Tidal observations at Old Point Comtiиrt., Va., continued; tides of verification at Annapolis, Md., anti l'etersburg, Va. AstrOnomicnl ob- Dr. B. A. Gould, Jr...... Difference oflongitudeof Raleigh, aervationa. N. C., and Wasbingt.on; for longitude deterruimitions between Washingt.on a.nd New Orlea.ns; latitude ol1servationa. I ( Sc<i also Section V.) Secondary tri11.n- J. J. S. HaRsler, assistant.i Continuation of Currituck sound; Back bay north of the Virginia. gulation and toand North Carolina line. pography. Secondary trian- C. P. Bolles, auistant; J. ; Cape Fear river, from near New gulation and to"fl!. Gregorie, sub-as- i Inlet to heud of Eagles island, above Wilmington. J>Qgrapby. e1stant. T"rtiary triangula- A. S. Wadsworth, sub-llll- i Core Bank and sound, N. C., to funner survey of Beaufort hartion a.nd topogsistant; Goo. H. Bagbor, N. C.; reconnaissa.nce raphy. well, aid. south of Beaufort, (See also Section I.) Hydrogra.phy ииии. 1 Lt. Comg. J. N. Maflitt, I Cape Fear entrance end river, to bead of Eagles island, above 1 U.S. Navy, assistMt. Wilmington, completed; tidal observations Cape Fear river and Smithville, N. C. (See I also Section V.) Cape Fear river, and at Raleigh, Inspectl.on of par- A. D. Bache, euperlntiendи i N. C. ties. ent. !

l

I

I
1'

I

I

I l

i I
i

4*

REPORT OF TilE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued.

Limits included in thej .,,_ ~ ~ several sections.

I .S '
IZ

1---------j1
lV & V V

I

Gulf Stream иииииии.ииииии ' Hydrography .ии - 1 Lt. Comg. J. N. ~affitt, U. S. Navy, as8lstant; master J. P. 1 acting Jones, U. S. Navy.

'

, ~s

~=
Operations.

I
1,

'
i

Persons conducting the , Localities of the several operaи operations. tions.

~

I

'

i

Cape Fear to St. Mary's river, including the coast of &uth Carolina and Georgia.

I

Reconnaissance ии. ! Bvt. Maj. Henry Prince, J U. S. Army, assistant.

I
2
Primary and sec- ) C. 0. Boutelle, assistant; B. Huger, jr., subи&ilondary triangulation. eistant.

3

Astronomical observations.

Dr. B. A. Gould, Jr.; Professor Lewis R. Gibbes.

4
5

6
7

S. Army, aиsistant; R. J. Breckenridge, aid. Secondary trian- Lt. Jos. S. Totten, U.S.A., gulatiou. asst.; C. B. Baker, aid. Topography.иииии. S. A.. W ainwrigllt, subassistant. Hydrography ииии. Lieut. Com'g J. N. Maffitt, U.S. Navy, assistant.

Secondary triaugulation.

Capt. E. 0. C. Ord, U.

8

Inspection of parи ties.

A. D. Bache, imperlntendent.

V&VI

Gulf Stream........ . ии и и и Hydrography. иии . Lieut. Com'g T. A. M. Craven, U.S. Navy, a.et.alstant.

VI

FromSt.Mary'srlver roSt.Joseph's bay, coast of Floriaa.

I

Secondary trianи gulation.

Lieut. Jae. Totten, U.S.
Army, assistani; C. T.

J ardella, aid.

2 3

Secondary triangulation.

George A. Fairfield, subas8istant.

i

Topography.ииииии J.HullAdams,BulS-asaistant; C. M. ~ aid.

I

Exploration of Gulf Str.eam on sections across it from cape Hatteras, Cape Fear, and Charleston harbor entrance. (See also Sections IV and V.) From the Cape Fear river, N. C., to the Santee river, S. C.; triangulation of Winyah bay and Georgetown harbor. (See also Section I.) Opening of lines and occupation of primary stations, New Cut, Matthews & Elliott's Cut, between Etlisto base and Charleston; secondary triangulation of Stono river over J lllllea' island; trian1!1Jlation of Winyah bay and Georgetown harbor, S. C., from the extrance to Georgetown. (See also Section I.) Telegraphic difference of longitude of Charleston and Raleigh, fur connexion with Washington and New Orleans. (See &!so Section IV. ) From the base on Union Causeway to near Tybee entrance. (See also Section X.) Entrance and harbor of Georgetown, S. 0., commenced. Shore line of Winyah bay and Georgetown harbor. (See also Section III.) Additional examination ofCharleston bar. Hydrograpby of Winи yah bay 1md its approaches, and of Georgetown hsrbor. Tidal Etations there, and at Charleston. (See also Section IV, and Sections IV and V, Gulf Stream.) Near Charleston and at Georgetown harbor, S. C.; on &vanи nah river, Gil. General ex!llllи ination for commencement of triangulation between the Savmmah and the St. Mary's. Exploration of Gulf Strea.m in sections across from Charlesи ton, S. C., and near Ssvannah entrance, Ga., St. Augustine and Cape Canaveral, Fla. ( Soo also Section VI.) From Point Elizabeth, near Caи rysfort reef, to near Key Tavernier; also from Key West eastward, for mark!n11 the keys. Report on signals for reef, mr Light-house Board. EntranceofSt.John'sriver,Fla., and Fort George inlet. (See also Section I, and office.) Florida keys continued from

Creear's creek, Soldier Ke1
t,o

Old Rhodes Key.

OF THE UNITED ST.A.TES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*5

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued.

Limits included i11 the several sections.

Operatio!lll.

Persons conducting the operations.

Localities of the several operarations.

VI

From St. Mary's river to St. Joseph's bayContinued.

4

6

VII

From St. Joseph's bay to Mobile bay, including part of the coast of Florida and AlabWilll..

l

VIII

From Mobile bay to
Vermilion bay, including the coast of Alabama, Mississippi, and part of Louisiana..

2 I

2

3

4

5

6

IX Vermilion bay to the
boundary-part of Louisilllla& Texas.

1

Shore-line and togography of entrance to St. John's river, 8Ild }'ort George inlet, l"lti.; of Boca Chica, and marking for Land Office. (Part of ReMon.) Hydrography. иии и Lieut. Com'g T. A. M. EntranM to St .иfohu's river, and Craven, U. S. Navy, Fon George inlet, Fla. ; of assistant. Florida reef from Triumph reef to Turtle reef. (See also Secи tionsY and YI, Gulf Stream.) Inspection of par- .A.. D. Bache, superintend- Inspection of pro~ess of parties on St. John's river, and geneties. ent. ral examination of coast tO St. Mary's. Reconnaissance.... F. H. Gerdes, assistant; Special reconnaissance with as tronomieal positions; eHstern G. G. Oltmans, aid. and western entrane.es to St. George's sound, harbor of Apalachicola. General reconnaissance of St. Andrew's and St. Joseph's bays and of the coast westward. Tidal observ11tions. G. WO rd em an ииииииииии Pensacola, Florida. Reconnaissance.... F. H. GArdes, assistant; General reconnaissance from Lake Borgne to Delta o(Missiиsippi, G. G. Oltma.JU1, aid. and of the c<>a@t west of the Mississippi t-0 .Atcbafalaya bay. Speci61 rnconnaissan11>e with astronomical positions of Baratsria and Timballier bays, La. Measuremeutofprelimina.ry base, Triangulation and F. H. Gerdes, assistant; triangulation and topography G. G. Oltmaru., aid. topography. of Isle Derniere and vicinity of Ship shoal, La.. (See also Section VII.) West of Lake Borgne t,o New Secondary trian- S . .A.. Gilbert, IU!eistant. Orleans, and up Lake Pontgulation. chartrain w near llladisonville, signals erected. (See also Section I.) Topogra.phy....... W. E. Greenwell, MSist- Shores of Lo.ke Borgne, La. Examination of Dauphine island. ant; Wm. M. Johns<>n, (See also Section X.) sub-assistant. Hydrography и ии и и Lieutenant Commanding Ship shoal, La. ; Horn Isl11Ud Pass; entrances to Pueagonla B. 1<'. Sands, U. S. Nariver; continuation of bydrovy, assistant. i:raphy of Mississippi sound wиestward; examinationofNaso roads, of Ship island, of pB.11и sage b.,tween и Dauphine and Little Pelican islands. Tidal observations.. G. Wttrdeman ииииииииии Hourly observations of tides at Southwest Pliss of the Mississippi river,and atSbipsboal, La. Reconnaissance иии Jas. S. Williams, assistant Extension of tria.ngnlation over MaQlgorda ba.y.

Topography....... R. M. Bache, sub-assistant.

3

Astronomical and llllli;llletie observations. Primary and secondary triangulation, and topography.

George W. Dean, assieia.nt; B. F. West, eubassistant. Jam es S. Willia.ma, assistant; 8. C. McCorJtle, sub-assil!tant; Geo. W. Parrish, aid.

Ea.st base, near Galvest.on, and Jupiter station, near Velasco. (See also Section I.) и Triangulation westward rowarde Mat11gordu. bay, and over its eastern a.rm; topography of the Brazos river and of the Gulf shores to Cany creek.

:REPORT OP THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued.
!
Limits included in the several sections. Operations.

l Persons conducting the
operations.

Localities of the several operar tions.

IX

Vermilion bay to the boundary-part of Louisiana and Texas-Continued.

4

Hydrography и и и и и Lieutenant Commanding H. S. Stellwagen, U.S. Na'1', assistant. Hydrography и и ии и Lieutenant John Wilkinson, U.S. Navy, assistant. Tidal obsarvationP .. G. Wurdeman иииииииии. Tidttl observations.. F. Muhr .иииииииииииии.

4

5

X&XI

W eetern coast of the United States Califoroia,Oregon, and Washington.

Primary and secи ondary trianguи lation.

R. D. Cutts, assistant;
John Hockwell, eubassistant. George Davidson, assistant; James S. Lawson, aid.

2

Geogrnphical do. terminations.

3

&cond ary trlango. latiou.

Geo Davidson, &Ssistant;

James S. Lawson, aid.

4

5 6

Secondary triangu- Captain E. 0. C. Ord, U. lation. S. Army, assistant. Topography.ииииии R. D. Cutts, usiatant; A. F. Rodgers, sub-assistant. Topography ..иииии A. M. Harrison, aub-ualstant; Wm. M. Johnson, sub-assistant.

7
8

Topography....... James S. Lawson иииииии Hydrography иииии Lieut. Commanding Jae. Alden, U. S. Navy, assistant.

Hydrogrephy . и и . . Lieut. ThoR. 11. Stevens, U. 8. Navy, aS1iatant.

9

Tidal oblervation1. Lieut. W. P. Trowbridge, U. S. EngiMen, asaislr ant.

Hydrography of San Luis Pass and bay, and of Galveston upper bay; examim1titm for Ji,l!hthouse at Aransas Pass. (Part of season. See also Section I.) Hydroi;raphy of approaches, entrance, and part of Rio Grande; e:xamination of entrance of Sabine river for site lиf light-house. Hourly tidal ohsflrvations at the mouth of the Rio Grande, and at Matagorda entrance. HoUTly tid11l observations at GalTeston. Measur<"ment of preliminary b88e, and commencement of main triangulation of coast near San Francisco bay. Latitude and longitude of Point Reyes, Bodega bay, Haven'~ anchorage, Mendocino city, Shelter cove, Humboldt, Trinidad bay, Point St. George; Port Orford, mouth of Umquah: astronomical observations at San Francisco. Measurement of preliminary hue, and commencement of triangulation near San Pedro, for conи nexion of Santa Barbara islands, (part of eeawn.) Triangula.tion of Humlwldt harbor; near Mendocino city, of mouth ofUmquah; nearCreecentcity, under Point St. George. Continuation of triangulation juat named. (See also Section V.) Shores of San Francisco bay and northward; of Point Bonita for 8ite of light-house. Shores of part of San Francisco bay&ofContraCosta; ofcoast in vicinity ot San Pedro and towards Ft. Aiio Nuevo; of S&nta Barbara iиl8Dda commenced. (See also Section YI II.) Point Reyes; of Humboldt bar bor; of mouth of Umquah Crescent city; Mendocino city Revised reconnaissance from San Francisco bay w Columbia river entrance ; resurvey of Humboldt entranee; examination of .\fendocino city, Trini dad hay ; Creacent city, under Point St. George ; mouth of Umquah; reaurvey of Columbia river entrance. ExMDinAtion of bank near Sll!l Clemente island. Hydrography of S.'l.Dta Barbara i11lands com menoed . .Eatabllshment of tidal atatioPB at San Diego, Monterey, San Fran eillOO, Columbia river, &e.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOB li53.

*7

APPENDIX No. 2.
List
Name.

ef army officers on

Coast Surt'ey duty March I, 1853.
Rank. Date of attachment. December 7, December 10, December 30, Septt>mber 14, March 2, January 17, December HI, May 5, March 20, December 2, December 2, December 8, April 18, November 10, 1846 1850 18r>2
1H49

Thomas J. Cram................. Captain topographical etиgineers ........................... J Henry Prince.................... Coptain and brevet major 4th infantry .ииииииииииииииииии Edward 0. C. Ord................ Captain 3d artillery ..и.ииии...ииии..и.иииииииииииииииии Isaac I. Stevens.................. First lieutenant and brevet major engineers ииииииииииииии William R Palmer.... ии и и и и и и и и и First Jieut-0nant topogra p bi cal engineers .иииииииииииииииии Augnstus A. Gibson............... :first lieutenant 2d artillery иииии..ииии.иии..ииииииииииии James Totten иииииииииииииииииииииииии. do .иии.иииии.и do ................................ . Edward B. Hunt.... . и ии и ииии ии ии Secund lieutenant engineers иииии..ииииииииииииииииииииии John G. Foetor........... ииии ииии Second lieutenant and brevet captain engineers иииииииииии Jo~eph S. Totten................. First lieutenant 2d artillery ........................... . Daniel T. Van Buren .иииии.ииииииииииии do .иии..ииии.и do иииии.и.ии.ииииииииииииииииииииии A1~11:':'stus H. Sewar~. ..... ииии иии. Second l!eutenant 5th.infantry ииииииииииииииииииииииииии Wilham P. Trowbridge....... ииии Second heuteuant engmeera иииии.ииииииииииииииииииииии 1 1 Andrew W. Evans................ Brevet second lieutenant 7th infantry .ииии..ииии. иии' .ии. !

1s;,2 1851 1850 18:51 1852 1852 1852 185l 1851 18.">2

i

APPE~DIX

No. 2 bis.

List
Name.

ef army officers on

Coast Survey duty September 1, 1853.
Rank. / Date of attachment. December December April D"cember l\Io.rch January December May March December December April November 7, JU, 1, 30, 2, 17, 10, 5, 20, 2,

~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~
Thomae J. Cram .ииииииииииии.ииии Henry Priuce ................... . Henry \V. Benham ииииии.ииии.иии и 1 Edward 0. C. Ord .иииииииииииииии William R. Palmer .ии.иииииииииии \ Augustu~ A. Gibиon ииииии.ииииииии ' James Totten .ииииииииииии.иииии. EdwRrd B. H1mt ииииии.ииии.иииии. John G. Foster .иииии.ииииииииииии Daniel T. Van Buren ..иииииииииии AugustWJ H. Seward иииииииииииии. William P. Trowbridge и.ииииииииии Andrew W. Evans и..иии..ииииииии . topograp h"icaI engineers . .иииииииииииииииииииииии I C apttnn Captain and brevet major 4th infantry .иииии.иииииииииииии I Captain engineers .иии.иииииии.иииии.иииииииииииииии.иии i C11ptain 3d artillery .ии.и.ии..ииииииииииииииии.иииииииии ' Cnptt1in topo!(raphical engineers .ииии..иии..иииииииииииии 1 Captain 2d artillery .......ии.и.ииии..ииииииииииииииииии I First lieutenant 2d artillery ииииииииииииииииииииииииииии. j Second lieutellllnt engineers иииии..и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и - и и j Second lieutenant and brevet captain engineers ........... First lieutenant 2d artillery .ии...иии...иииииииииииииииии 1 1 Second lil'utenant Mh intli.ntry иииии.ииииии.ииииииииииии. i Secund lieutenant engineers .ии.и..ииииииии - иииии ии ии Brevet second lieutenant 7th infantry иии - и.иииииииииииии и 1

I

1846 1850 18'i3 1852 1sr,2 1651 Jil511 1851 Hl52
1~52

иииI

8, lll51

18, 18.SI 10, 1852

APPENDIX No. 3.
Li.st
VeBsel. John Y.

ef navy officer~ oii

Coast Sun:ey duty March 1, 1853.
Name:

Locality of service. Section

I

Rank.

Date of attachment.

S. D. Trench1>rd ииииииии Lieut.enant иииииииииииииии March l, Edward Brinley,jr иииии. Acting master ..иииииииииии March 8, John B. Stewart..и..иии. Pa&sed midRhipman ...и.ии. November 15, Seboouer11 Crawford Section IV иииииии J. N. Maffitt ииииииииииии Lieutenant commanding иии. I May 9, and Bouncer. A. C. Rhind .ииииииииии. Acting master .иииииииииии. \ June 20, J.P. Jones ...ии.и.иииии ии . . do.................... June 2-', J. C. P. De Krafft ..ииии. PU88ed midshipman .иии..и. j December22, 20, J. D. Langhorne иииииии. ииии do иииии. do иииииииииии ., May I ! J. R. Hamilton иииииииии .и.и do ииииии do .и.иии.ииии. 1 August 31, Steamer C',,orwin and f Section VI .иииии. T. A. M. Craven ииииииии Lieutenant eommandiog ии.и November27, 3, t.ende~ Angle. B. N. Westcott .ии...... Lieutenant .......ииииииии. April 12, J. S. DungRu .иииииииии. Assistant surgeon ииииииииии May John C. Jo'ehiger ииииииии MaBter .ии.иииииииии.иииии December 3, Julian Myer& . иии и . ии ии . Acting master .ииииииииииии November I I, 23, Thomas C. Eaton и..иии. 1 Passed midshipman ......и. July

Bch<1oner Masou.

m .......

R. Wainwright .иииииииии Lieutenant commanding ииии January

31, 1848
1853 1852 1852
1843

1845 1852 1852

1850
1852

1850 1852 18f>2 1851 1849 1852

8*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 3-Continued.
Vessel.
J

Locality ofserTice.

Name.

Rank.

J.)ate of attachment. May 14, May 1, October 16, November 17, March 17, Novemberl7, October 22, Novemberl2, August 17, Sept. 26, January 17, November 12, May 18, February 21, May 6, May 6, 6, May 3, April March 12, January 15, 1, May March 30, May 3, December 4, 4, August May 8, May 1, M"y 14, 11<50 1851 1850 1852 1849 1852 1852 1852 1850 1850 1852 1852 1849 1851 1852 1852 1852 1852 1852 1853 1851 1848 1852 1852
18.">2

SteRWer Walker ..... Section VIII.. .... B. F. Sandsи----и-иииии Lieutenant commanding ииии W. S. Bishop ........... Passed assistant surgeon ... . J.B. McCauley ......... Acting master ............ . J.M. Bradford ..... ---- Passed midshipman ...... -и S.S. Bassett ................ do ...... do ........... . R. C. Duvall ................ do ...... do ........... . Sehooners Morris and Section IX ....... H. S. Stellwagen ........ Lieutenant commanding .. .. Belle. .John Wilkinson ......... Lieutenant ............. .. M. P. Jones ............ Acting master, (Morris) .. .. L. H. Lyne ................. do .... do ... (Belle) .... . Hunter Davidson.... .. .. Passed midshipman ....... . George S. King ............. do ...... do ........... . Steamer Active and Sections X and XI. James Alden ............ Lieutenant commanding ииии 1chooner Ewing. Thomas H. Steven! . и и .. Lieutenant .............. .. J.C. Wait ................. do .................. .. J. S. Kennard .............. do .................. .. R. l\I. Cuyler ........... Acting lieutenant ........ .. James Suddards ........ A@sistant surgeon ........ .. Office .......... .. John J. Almy .......... Lieutenant commanding .. .. Office .......... .. M. C. Perry,jr ......... LieHtenant .............. . Office .......... .. R. L. Law ............ и- Passed midshipman-и---и-Office ............ Maxwell \Voodhull..... Lieutenant commanding .. .. Office .......... .. 1 John Rntlerl.g"и----- ---- LieutP.nant .............. __ Office ............ i A. W. llab.,rsham ...... Passed midshipman ...... .. Otlice ............ 1 A. N. Smith ............ Master ................. .. Office ............ i A. G. Pendleton ........ Professor of mathematics ... Office ............ 1 GAOrge W. Doty ........ Lieutenant ............. .. Office ........... . 1 T. D. Huger ................ do ................... .

1848 18.51 1852

I

APPENDIX No. 3 bis.
List of navy officers on Coast Survey d11,ty September ] , 1863.

~~~-v_e_e_se_1_и~~~1~-Lo~c-a_I_it_y_o_r_s_e_rv_i_ce_._,_~~~~N-a_m_e_.~~~~'
Schooners Madison & Gallatin.

Rank.

Date of attachment.

Steamer1 Bibb and Corwin.

Schooner John Y. MallOD.

Steamer Hetzel and 11Chooner Graham.

Section I .......... Maxwell Woodhull ...... Lieutenant commanding .. .. John Rutledge ....... ". .. ! Lieutenant ............... . .John Rudonstein ..... " I Passed asustant surgeQn.. .. Samuel R. J<~ranklin и ии .. Acting IIlJl.llter ........... .. Joseph B. Smith ............ do ...... do .......... .. John D. Langhorne ..... Passed midshipman ....... . Hunter Davidson ............ do ...... do .......... .. S. L. Breese ............ !.... do ...... do .......... .. Section I.. ........ H. S. Stellwagen ........ i Lieutenant commanding ... . T. B. Huger ............ \ Lieutenant ............. .. Madison Rueb .............. do ................... . Foxhall A. Parker .......... do .................. .. A. N. Smith ............ и.и.. do .................. .. Jacob S. Dungan........ Assistant surgeon ........ .. W. E. Wysham ............. do ...... do .......... .. Charles W. Aby..... .... Acting master ........... .. Edward C. Stout ии.ии.и. ---иdo .. ___ . do ........... . Edward Henshaw........ Passed midshipman ...... .. 8. S. Bassett ............... do ...... do ........... . W. K. Mayo ................ ilo ...... do ........... . C. E. Thorburn ............. do ...... do ...... -----Section II ........ Richard Wainwright..... Lieutenant commanding.... . S. D. Trenchard ........ Lieutenant __ ........... .. John H. Stewart ........ ActingmMter .......... .. Onstavus Harrison и ... .. PaRsed mid~hipman .. - ... .. Section III ....... John J. Almy ........... Lieutenant commanding ... . M. C. Pel'fy,jr.......... Lietdenant ............. .. Van R. Morgan......... do ................... .

I

May May June April August May J11nuary August October May April March August May July

30, 3, 27, 2, 4, 20, 17, 18, 22, 14,

:u,
4, 12, 23, 19,

5,

May

June l, June 3, Mo.reh 17, 18~9 July 9, J8f,3 .July 20, 18fi3 January 31, 1848 March l, 1853 November 15, J8fi2 July 2<J, lffi3 March 12, 1851 J1mwi.ry 15, 1853 May 20, 1853

1848 1852 1853 1853 1852 1850 18.">2 1853 1852 1852 185!1 1853 1852 1852 1853 1853 1853 1853

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*9

APPENDIX Xo. 3 bis-Continued.
Vessel.

j Locality of senиice. !

Name.

Steamer Hetzel and \ Section III.и--- .. schooner Graham.

Paиsed assistant surgeon ... Actingrnaster,(Graham) .... 1 R. L. Law................... do .... do ... (lletzel)... 1 I John T. Walker иииии.ии Passed widshiprnan ........ j W. H. Merce1: .............. do ...... do...... .. .. .. \Dawson Phcmx ии...ииии.и.. do ...... do...... ...... Schooners Crawford SectionIV ии---ии' JolmX.Maffitt ......... Lieut.enantcommanding .... and Bouncer. I A. C. Rhind .ии -- ....ии. Master ................... I J.P. J .. nes., _____ ...... Acting master ............. W. D. Whiting и. ~ ...... ; Passed midshipman ........ \J.C. P. D~Krafft ...... -\---иdll ...... do ............ J.R.llamilton ......... 1 . . . . do ...... do ............ 1 Schooners Morris and Section IX ии .Joh11 \\'ilkinson ......... Lieutenant. . .. ... .. . ии .. . . Belle. D. L. Bryan ... _........ i Passe<l as8lиtant surgeon ... , M. P. Jones--и-ии ...... j Acting ma"ter ............. , L. H. Lyue ............. , .... do ...... do ............. . _ и : George S. King-----и иии ! P~ssed mi~иhipman ......... Steamer Active and ' Sections X and XL' .James Alden ........... J,1eutenant commnndmg.... schooner Ewing. ' I Thomas H. Stevens ..... ; Lieutenant ... _............ J C Wait '

April 8, 18[>3 Ma.l, 18:'1! Ap;иil 7, lo53 .do ии...иии. do. .do ......... do. May fl, 18-1:1 J11n11 20, liW\ June 28, lfl52 July 30, 18ii3 December2'2, J.352 August 31,lfl:j2 ~o.rember 1'2, li'52 December ll, 1:352 Aug11st 17, 18.J:l Sept'her 26, 11:352 November 12, lt'\5:! Mиy 18, 18и1!) February 21, 1851 May 1~;,2 do. H. ll'L CnylAr ........... Acting lieutenant ......... ., June 211, 1845 James Suddards .и - ..... .' As>isttmt surgeon .......... 1 April 3, 1852 Alex. M. De Bree ....... I Actiug master .......... _ ии April 2, 1853 Office иии _........ B. F. Sands .ии.иииииии.. i Lieutcnиn.t co~mnanding .... May 14, 1850 Oflice ............ . J.B. McCauley ......... \ Passed m1doh1pman ........ October JG, 1850 O~ce ............ R. C. Duvall ........... ....и do ...... do ....... и-и--- Nov1>1nber 17, 1~2 Office ............ 1 T. A.. M Craven------ ииI1 Lieutenant commanding .... November 27, 1850 Office иии _........ B. N. Westcott-------ииi Lieutenant .... --- ........ April 3, 1852 и..и do .................... December 3, 1851 Office ............ J.C. Febiger ииииииииии. 1 Office ............ Julian Myers ииии ---и--- j Pa.ssed midshipman .иии и--- November 11, 1849 23, 1852 Office ............ Thomas C. Eatonии-ииии .... do ...... do ......... _.. , July Office иии _ииииииии A.G. Pendleton._ ...... ! Professorofmathematics .и. : May 8, 1848

1-D. B. P:llips ..... I W. \Y. Lrnи ............

и=

I

Rank.

i Date of attachment.

~pril--~ 9, 1;5~

I

---ииi'

!

do :::::: :::::::: .. do .......... G, Ii s.' Kenn;;i.:::::::::::::::do::::::
I

I

1

I

I

APPENDIX No. 4.
List of assistant engineers United States Navy on Coast Survey duty lYiarcli 1, 1853.
Vessel. Name.

-----------1--------------'I

I

Rank.

J

Date of attachment.

!_______
I

Steamer Corwin ......... . F. C. Dade ..................... ! Second asgistant engine.er ......... 1 May 14, 1852 Hiram Haines ...... Third a.ssistftllt engineer ........... ,ии. do ..иииии. do. J.C. Hull ............ ии--ии ......... do ....... do ............. ._ и. i-и .do ........ do. Steamer Walker ииииииии. A. C. Stimers .. ---и ............. Second assistant engineer ..... и---\ No;ember 18, 1852 W. H. Nones .иииии ииии-ии ........... do .. ___ .. do ....... ----ииииии/August 3, 1852 C. Lindsley..................... Third assistant engineer........... , November 18, 1852 George E. Shock ииииии иии-ии ......... do ....... do ..... _ииии _......... do ........ do. Steamer Active ииии ии---и N. C. Davis.и.и - ................ First usistantengineer ........... February 22, 1853 E. A. Whipple ....................... do ....... do ....... и----- ииии. April 10, 1852 W. A. R. Latimer ............... Second assistant engineer ............ do ........ do. H. C. J!'well ................... Third assisto.otengineer .иииииииии June 17, 1852 7, 1850 l!!teamer Hetzel. иииии - и - . Jatnea M. Adams ................ Second assistant engineer иииииииии Jnne
1 1

иии-иииии---I

10*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPEND TX No. 4 bi:r.
List of assistant engineers United States Nav?J on Coast Survey d'Uf!J September 1, 1853.
Ve;seL
Name.

Rauk.

Date of attachment.

Steamer Corwin..и....... F. C. Dode ..................... First a.sistant engineer ..и.и...и.. May 14, 1652 и. S. lf. Honston .ии...иииииииииии. SC'cond ae~istant engineer. ииии.... Afay 11, 1833 и 1 I ,J.C. Hull. ..ии.иииии..и.ии..... Third as.ist1mt engiueer .иии.и.ии. 1\1ny 14, 1"52 Stea.merilibb .ии.и.иииии. и E. S. De Luce .иии..и.и.и....... l'irstasoi<tant engineer ........и.. Jime 4, rn;;3 A. Broa<lnix . и и и и . . и и и и . и . и и . . и . Secom! assistant eugineer .ииии.иии... do ии - -- .. do. li. S. llarker ..иии..иии.и.ии.ии. Third assistant engineer ..и.ии..... June 7, 1853 Steamer Hetzel.......... E. W"". Manning ии...иииии.иииии..и.... do ..ии.. do ии . . . и . и .и и . . и. . Afay 27, Jt',53 Steamer Active .иииии..и. N. C. Da\иis ...и......... ии-.иии- First asиiEtant engineer ..ииии..... February 2:l, 1853 E. A. Whipple .иии..иии.и.иииии.ииииии do ..ии.. do .иии...иииииии.. April HJ, ltlO~ H. C. Jewell .иииииииииии.иииии. Third assi<tant engineer ..иии.и.и.. June 17, 185~ Steamer Walker......... \V. H. Noues.. .и . . . ... . . ии . . . . . 8econd assiиtant engineer......... N"o-.ember 16, 1852 Steamer Legare иииииииии. C. 1Y. Ged<lcs...и...иии...и.и.и. :First assistant engineer ..иии.и.и.. May 19, 1853 "'Waltingorders иииииииии.. G. E. Shock ...иииии..и.иииииии. Third assistant engineer ..ииииииии. Norcmberl8, 1852

APPENDIX No. 5.
List of Coast Sumey maps, sketches, and preliminary charts, c11gravcd aud e11graving.
1.
No.
LIST OF MAPS ENGRAVED.

21J. New York bay and harbor and the environs-sheet No. 1...... ...... ...... ...... ... ... ...... ...... 21. Do иии.и.иии... do ..иии.иииии. do .и..иииии. do ...и 2 ииииииииииии..иииииииииииииииииииииии ---и 2-2. Do .ииии.ииии.. do ...ии..и.ии. do .ии.и..... do ...и 3...... и..и ..ии.и. ..иии. .ии. .и.... .... ...и 22. Do .ииииииииии. do и.ииии.ииии. do иии.иииии. do .ии. 4.... ииииииии ииииии иии..ииии. .иии.. .ииииии 23. Do .ииии..ииии. do ии.иииииииии do .и..ииииии do ииии 5...... ииииии .иииии .иии.и ииии.. .ии ии. и.и.ии ~Do ........и... do .......и.и.. do ..и.и.и.и. do .и.. ii...... .... ........... ...... .... .......... 26. Do иииии..иии.. do .и.ии.....и. do.......................................................... 27. Western part of south coast of Long Island..................................................... ~- IJittle Egg Harbor............................................................................ 29. Delaware bay and river-sheet No. 1 .и.ии...иииии.иииии...ии...и -- и. ии.. .. . и. . ии. . . ии . . . и.и . . . . . 30. Do ииииииииии do ииииииии do ииии 2 иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииииииииииии иии :11. Do .ииии.иии. do иии.иии. do ..и. 3...... иииииииииииииии.иииииии. .иииии и.и.иии.и. .ииииииииииии 3'l. Seacoast of Delaware, Maryland, and part of Virginia .иии.......и.и.........и..иии...иии...ии..... 33. Harbor ()f Annapolis and Severn river иииииии.иииииииии..иии..ииии.иииии. r ии .и.ии...ии. .. . и. . .и. 34. MouthofChesterriver ииии.ииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииии.и.ииии..иии.иииииииии.ииииииииии 35. Pasquotank river............................................................................ 36. Mobile bay entrance и.и. -ииии--ииииииииии-и-ииииииииииииииииииииии-ииииииииии-ииииииииииии---и 37. C1.1t and Ship Islands harbors .и.ииииии..ииииииииии..иии.иии.ии.ии.иии.иииии.ииииииииии.и.ии - иии. 38. Galveston bay entrance и..ииииииииииииииии --- ..иииии.иии.ииииииииииииииииииииииииии -и -и и ии ---и

19. Hell Gate...................................................................................

2. 1Yelltleet harbor и...иии --и ииии.иииииии.иииииии - и..иии.и ---- иииии -и .ии - ииии....иии и -и - - .иии - и ии 1'Tlli~rr 3. Nantucket harbor............................................................................ ndnnr >TJ~inr 4. Hyannis harbor.................................................................. . и и и . и иии и.и . 5. Harbor of Edgnrtown ....................... , . -- -- и.иии..иии.иииии.ииииии...иииииии... -и. и . .и 6. Harbor of Holmes' Hole an<! Tarpaulin cove ии...ииииииии.ииии..ии.ии..и.иии..ииии.ииии.ииииии -и >TJlnnr 7. Harbor of New Bedford .и..ииии..ии..иииии.и. -- ..иииии..ииииииииии.и... -и иииии.и. --- .ии..ии. - и -:nrt'rn╗ 8. General chart of the coast from Gay Head to Cape Henlopen ...................................... ..-mi'<mir 9. :Fisher's Island sound......................................................................... -.nrlnn:r 10. Harbor of New London ..ииииии.и.и.и..иииии.иииииии..иииииии.ии..иии..иии.иии.и.ииии.иииии. ии nif.uir ll. Mouth of Connecticut river............................ ииии.и ии.и .иии.и и.и. ииии .... ...ии. .и.ии mrrir 12. Harbor of New Haven, (new edition, J85t).............................. .ии...ииии.ииии.и.ииииии =ii= 13. Harbors of Black Hock an<! Bri<lgport.......................................................... ;rrr/nrn 14. Harbors of Sheffield and Cawkin'sialands................... ии.ии..ии.ии.ииии..иии.иииии..и.ииии vuninT 15. Huntington i>ay ...и....и.и.......и....и...и...и.ии. __ .. и. . . .. . . . . .. . . . и.. .. . и . и . . ии. . и. .. . . ии ,,-.,,./nnr J6 Harbor of Oyster or Syosset bay............................................................... ~rm\rnr J7. Harbors of Captain's iolands,east and west...................................................... ;rtri\-inr 18. Hart and Cfty island and Such em's Head harbor ....и.ии ---и .и ии. . .и. . . и . . . . и ии . и ииии.. ииии. vrrlnnr, rrr~rnr

I. Richmond island .ииииии.ии....и.....ии..ии.и..и.... --и--- ии.ии.....и --и- иии..ииии.ии -----иии--

'llrlnrn

mmr

;rrrhи"
-:rubrnr -:rui'nm
-:rrri'nm mn\mr
~rnr l'TY<hm

i;n'rni-

:nn\-rnr

-:rTJi'nm

mrbou-

.nrlnnr
mri'nm vmil.nnr

-.nrlrnu -.nrAmr
4Uhru
4 ubmJ

m:rlnnr

mrnmr

2.
No.

LIST OF SKETCHES A:t.'D PRELIMINARY CHARTS ENGRAVED.

I. Cnrrf<lnt chart, Boston harbor ииииииииии.иииииииииииии.ииии.иии.ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии 2. Minot's Ledge ..ииии...ии...иииииииии.иииии.ии.иииииииииииииииииииииии ---~ ииии иии--и--ии...... Davill' South shoal-Bixth edition ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ии--ии иииииииииииииииииииииииииии

TtThnlf!J1kuo

TUTI'inro

OP TIIE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1833.
No.

*11

4. Sow antl Pig8 reef ..... --и ......................... ---- ............................. - .................................................. --- и ... ........ :::1n1 ~<m-rr 5. l~utte;1nilk channel ................ -и ................................................................................ - -и -- ........... - .... - ........ и и .... -и r;t-:1t10 6. Beaconrnn~es, NewYorkbarbor ии.и.ииииии..и.и.ииииииии..ии..... --иииии--иииии-иииииииии--ии :rnlcco 7. Homer aud Flynn shoals .ии..ииии..ииииииии.и.иииии.. -иии .и...ииииииииииии. -и-иии-и .иии ииии-и.. nrlrrnr 8. Changes in Sandy Hook. -- .. -и- -- -и .. ----. -и ..ии. - . -- - . -и--и -и ии ии- и ии и ----- -- и и -и и- и --- nrlnnr. nrlimr 9. Chincoteague inlet .и....ииии. -- - ииииииииииииии. -- и. . иии . ииии .и ии иииии ии ии . и.и . .иии .и .и. и иии и ии :rnl-cmr 10. S,,acoast of pa\иt of Virginia .и.ии.и..и.....и..иии.....иии. ии--ииииииииииииии ииии.и иииии-и--и-иии ,,,if,'llT<f 11. Metomkin awl "'aebapreague inlets and Hog Island harbor .иии..и.. и-------ии---и-и-ии-иии---.... :r,;6rnr 12. Entrance of ChesapBake bay .ии - - - ии. - .ии.. - ии.. - и - .. - .и.и - - ..иии. - -и .иииииииии ии и ...ии - - -и . . . и :rnu'nuir 13. Cape Charles uml vicinity .ии.ии.ииииии ии--ии ииииии.иии..ииии.. иии-ии .ииии. ---и ииииии .и.. ..и... n&rnr 14. Cherrvstone inlet. - . __ ...и...и - . - - . - - - _ .ии. - . - ииии..... - и.и.. - - ..и - и... - и - и - и.. - - .и..ии..и. - . -.rotrov 15. J>ungt;t~n.gue creek..................................................................................................................................................... -:rnfi--rr~r 16. Pishing or Donoho's Battery ____ ....... -и--ии-- ........... -- . ---- --- .... --- .......... --- .. --- .. - - -- - . и--и. .... ...... Tv20urr 17. Hatternsиhoals ииии-ииии-иииииии--ииии-ииии--ииииии- -и-ииииииииииииии--ииииииииииии-иии-ии-и cd-o<r 11'. Cape Hatt<>riis..и..и.....и... ииииии-ии-иииииииииииииииииии-ииииии .ии. ..ии.ии.и... ии..и....и..и "'('"" lH. Hatterns inlet-fourth edition. -- иииииииииии. -и и. -и и.и --- .и - иии.ии -и -и .ии -- ...и. и - и ии.ии - и и.и - ии TUnu1J' 20. Ocracuk(~ inlet.---- --- ...... __ .. ___ .. ---- .... ___ . __ ........ ___ .... -- ___ ..... - -- ---- -- . -- .. --- --- ...... --- --- ... ----:rr.fi\'ilf 21. Bennlort harhor ..и..ииииииииииии иии--и иии....ииии...иии. ---иии ии...и..иииии..и..иии. ии-- и--иии .,,-d,rm 22. Ne\V river and bar ............................................. и--- .. - ............ - ---и ................ - .... -- .... ---- .... ---- .. -- - - -- -- .. nfinTI 2a. Frying Pan shoals .......и........и..... _......и......и. - ...... - ........и... -- - .и.. - - -- . . . . и . и no11rno ~.i. Entrance tu Cape Fear riYcr and New iul et... .. .. .. .. . .. и .. .. .. и и .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. и .. .. и .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. n h-TIIT 25. C<lJ>e Homan shoals .иииии --иии- ииииииии.иии.ииииии ии--ии иии..иии.иии.и.ии.иии..ииии.ииии ииииии ndnuo 26 .. liull's bav .... -- ....................... ---- -- ------- -- .......... -- .. ---- ........... ---и. -- -- - --- --и -- - - -- - - --- - - -- -- :rrr~ni'lJ 27. North Edisto ri'\er-secunJ edition ....... _..... ----и ................ - .............. - ---- и- .... и-и- ...................... - -- . и .. orrhrrrr 2ci. EutranC'e to Savannah river .и --- ............................................... _........................ -- и ............ и- -- -- ........ - -и .... .. -:Jl:ilion 29. Sarnnnah c'ity, Front nnl Back rivers .и.и....... и-иии-и-ии---ии-ии .и.. ---и-иии-и-и .... --и--иииии :mbvv 30. St.Audrew'sshoals........................................................................... wl>vv 31. St. J"hn's riverentrance ...и.и..ии..иии.иии...и. иии-иииии----и ии-иии иии-ии-иии и-ии ---и ии-и-иии '1Dfmn 32. Mosquito inlet._. -- ......и....... -и ии.. - - . -и. ---и и..и - . -- ... - и... -и - . -- - ..и... --и - . . и и. . и и . . и и :rntmo 33. Cape Ca.iia.vern.l ...................................................... ---- ................. и--и ....... .......... .............................. ....... ................ tirt1,11 3~. K"y \Vest-second edition и.ииии.. -- иииии.иии.и.и.и.и - . - и --- ..и - .ии.и. -- и .. --- . и - - - и и -- и - иии -- - TT"tи1
:J:l. Itebccca shoals ........................................................................................... -- ............. - -- ..................... -и ........ ....... ..
l,T.11u-ro

o=

31;. 37. 3'l. 3H. 40.

\Ycstcrn coa~t uf Florida .и.и -- ......иии... - - - .ии. - ...иииииии.и.. - -ии .и - - .. -- - --и и- и и -и и - ии и. ии nuuumr H,,counaissancti, 1иieinitv of Cedar Kern .иииииииииииииииии. и-и-ии-ии--и-иииии---иииии-----ииии-ии - mrJrro.r Channel No. 4, Cedar Kevs иииии. .и : . ииии...и.ии.и..иииии -иии .: ...и.ии..иииии --и- ии---- ииии ии.и =iru.r St. Mark's bar and chanu el .иииииииии.иииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ---иииииии-и ииии и-и--- ии--ии :rnlrrnr EaRt~rn and \Ve~teru entra.nces St.. George's sound .......... --- ............ - - ............. - ........... - .. --- .. - .................. -- и;;nlrnr 41. Entrance to 11lol>ile bay ииии ---и ииииииии.иииииииииии --ии ииии и-иии--и-и--------и-ии ииииииииииии rulnrrr 42. Mobile bay-second edition .ии..иииииииииии.иииии -иии ..иии.ииииииии ииии-и-иииии-иии ииии иииии-ии n-..1.r=
0

43. Hom Iиlan<l P!lss and Grand bay -и-- ииии -- ... -- иии -и-- .. - -- -иии -- -- и-. - ии - .ии ---- и- -и и-ии --- -и и
44. Horn Island Pass ииии и--иии-иииииииии иииииииииииииииииииии и--ииииии- ииииииииииииииии -ииииии-ии 4f>. Pa,,,cagonla river ииииииииииииииииииииииииииии -иии ииииииии и.ии-ии иииииииииииии. ии-и и и-ии ииии -и-и

~.nm

~t5~~~~~b~-~~~;~~ t'.~~1- ~~:1:3:~~::::: ::: :::и.:: ::: ::::::: ::::::::: ::: :::: :: ::: :::: :::::::::: ::::: :: :... ~~
()0. 61. 6~. 6:l. (i4. Isle DeruiCre. _......... ___ ................ --и .............................................................. --- .............. --- ...... - ...... - .............. "RTI~ITTI ]Бintranee to Sabine river ........ ------------------ии .................................................................................... ______ :r113rru Eotrd11ce to Galveston hay .ииииииии ииииии-- ииииииии -иии ииииииииииииииии --иииииииии-ии-иииии-и-и oro-hm Galveston bay-second edition .иии.и..и.иии.иии..ииииии..ии и-и-и-и-иииии-и-ии ..ииии и-ии--и...... ,r,ri:fn-nn San Luis Pass ................ ---и -- -- -- --- ............. -- --- ...... - -- ...... .:. ................................. -- -- ........... -и-.. ........ ......... nhnn 6'i. Armi.,as Pass. - - - ии. - и - ии. -и и.и --- и.и - иииии.иии - иииии - ииии.и --- иии..ии - иииииииии -и- иииииии -и-и ;mh,m 66. Altlen's recHnnaissanee of western coast from San Francisco to San Diego .ии. ии--и .иии -иии-и ииииииии TnJbuvv

:rv6vir '2\JO\JU

~~~ ~i~~~~iиt~rb~~);~~~~~~~~: . -:::.и::. -.. ._-_-_-_-~-: ..".-::::.и:.::. :и::. ::: ::::: :: ::: ::::~: :::: ::: :::::и. :: :и_: :: : :~:

67. D0lta of the Miиsissippi .ииииииииии.. ии-иииии-иии ии-ии-ииииииииииии -ииииииииииии-ии ииии и----и-и

0trlnnr

6H. Catalina harbor ...иии.ииии. -----и ииииииииии...иииии ---и ..иии ии. -и-- .. --- ..ии -- .ииииииии и--и ииии i-oit= 70. Prisoner's harhor, Cuyler's harbor, and northwest anchorage San Clemente island ииииииииии - .и -ии ииии 110/;v;:r 71. Santn B&rha.ra .................... ии---- ...................................... --и--- иии- и-и-ии ",/,.,u 72. San Simeon, Santa Cruz, San Lnia Obispo, and Coxo .ииии..и.ии -и .ии -ии. иии иии .ииии. ии иииии. 'ZUOvvи r.rlи=

67. CC.rtez Bank ................~ ............................................................................................. --и - ........... _ .. -- .... .. .. .... nhvu, mhnn G~ San Diego entrance-second edition ии.ииии.иииииии.и --и-ии-ииииииии-иии---иии--ииии-иииииии TIL.'tim:i. ""~r.;r

;~: ~~~~~ ~f~~~~:~i~~-------------- ::::::::: _-_-_- :::::::::: .-.-.-.-.-.~.-.-.-.-.-.- :::: :: :: :: :: :: ::: ::::::: ::: ::: :: :::: :~:
;~: ~~~:1;.;~~~(l~~~~~~:-.-.-.-.::

77. San Francisco bay entrance .. - ..иииии. _ииии _.ииииии.иииии.ии -ии _. ии ии и и и и и ии и . и ии и и и и и и и . и и и и и и 78. San Franeisco city-thit'd edition ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии иии--и- ииии ии--ии--ииии 79. l\Iare Island straits .и - ..и... --- - . - - и.иииии _ ии _.. _и. и-- .иииииииии.ии..иии -и- ии - ииииииии..иии. -ии

и_ :: и_и_::и~и-::-.: :::: :: :и.:: ::::::-.:::: ::-.-.::-.:: ::: :: :-.::::: :::::: ::::::: :::

r.rn'n= T<Tirrnr
"ai:rm

~-~

80. McArthur's reco1maissaoce of western coast from Monterey to mouth of Columbia river-sheet No. J, third edition. 81. McArthnr's reconnaissance of western coast from Monterey to mouth of Columbia river-sheet No. 2,
t.hird edition.

82. McArthu1"s reconnaissance of western coast from Monterey to mouth of Columbia river-sheet No. 3,

83.

tllird edition.

Humboldt

bay................................................................................

~nu

84. Trinidad bay .и _и.и _.и.ии и-- ии.иии.ии.. - иии.ииииии и-и _ииииииииииииии ---- иии -и - - - и иии ии и и ии ииии 85. Jllouth of ColumbiB.rirnr-second edition ииииииииии ииииииии-и-ии----.............................

whnr

wlnrrr

12*

REPORT OF TиIIE SUPERINTENDENT

No. 86. Moutl1 of Columbia river_ ..иииии.иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии 87. Cape Hancock, or Disappointment .иииии -~---ии иииииииииииии.ииии..ии..иииииииииии..ииииииииииии 8S. Shoalwaterbay. _____ ии-иии ии-и --иииииииии-ии -иииии ии-иии-иииии-ии--ии и-иии-ии ии-и ииии иии- ..ии 89. Alden's rec"urrniи"11nce of western coast from Groy's harbor to .Admiralty inlet ...................... . 9D. Cape Flattt>1иy and Nee-ah harbor .ии.ии..и.ииииииии.иииииииии.иииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииииииии 91. Ha1иbor of False Dungeness ..иии..ииии..и.иии...и...ии.......ииии.и...иииииии...ии..иииииииииии

vun1mm
nmAnm
=b11rr irrrh-rr
vrl1uu 111Tbmr

3,
No.

LIBT OF MAPS l!:NGR.A.YING.

1 Portsmouth harbor_ и.и.ии..ии..ииии. __ ииииии.ииии. __ и.ии -и __ -- . __ и- и.иии _иии _- ииииии _иии --ииии 2. Newburyport harbor .ии - .иии - и _.............................................................. . :.l. Salem harbor ................................................................................ . 4. Roston harll'lr_ ___________ --и- ---и ---и------ и----и ----ии--и---и--ии- -ии- -и--и-ии-иии-и ии-ииииlJ. Eu.stern series (from Block island eastward) ..... _.-и.иии- ....................................... . 6. Long Island sound-sheet No. L ии..ииии... _и.иииииии..ии..ииииии.ии..и.. _ии.и.ии..иии..иии.иии 7. Do ..... и-----dr>-.No 2--и. и-ии ии-и ---и и..и ---и ... --- иии--- и--- ____ ии--ии иии- -иииии .... l:l. Do......иии.. do .. No. 3 ........................................... _ии. и-ии иии.ии.иииииии 9. South sido Long I.land-slieet Jll"o. 2 .ииииииииииииии.и.иииии...ииииииииииии.ииииииииииииии.ииииии 10. Do_ ииии. и-ииииии-иdo .. Ko. 3 ..... _ .и...и.... ии-и .иии..и..ииии.иии..иии..и.и..иииииииииии 1 l. Chesapeake bayиии- .и.и - .do_.No. 1. ..и...и...и.и......и....ии..и.и.иии........ии......ииии - .ии 12. Patapscoriver ..ии.иииииии.ииии....и.и.и. , ................................................... . 13. Albemarle sound иииии...ии.. иииииииии--ииии--иииии--ииииииии-ииииииииииииииии-ииии--ииии-ииии 14. Do ..иии..и.иииии sheet No. 1. .и....иии.и.....и..иииии.ии..ии.ииии..ии..иии.......ии...ии 15. Do иииии..иииии.... do ии No. 2 ........................................................... . 16. Charlf'ston harbor .......................... и----- ........................................... . 17. Rey West .иии _.............................................................................. . 1>3. Mobile bay-sheet No. L иииииииии.ииии.ииииииииии.ии.ииии.иииииииииииииииии.ииии..ии ии-и ииииии 19. Do ..иии. do .и No. 2 иииииииии.иииииииииииииииииии.иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии , иииииииии

vnhv vnnnrr
V50l!U

TUh-rr
imhm
lITT~lTU l;TT~lJ'IT !rn~lllT ls;J 1~-U-IT

m:r<\lllT

lITT,\mi
on,ko
1

VUTl'T1llT
.. IT~l!U

irrn\mr

111Th-rr
=hmr
nrtnu

-.ulnm

APPENDIX No. 6.
List
Date.
1852.

ef iriformation furnished by

Coast Survey under authority

ef

Treasury Department.

To whom communicated.

Information communicated.

November

31 Engineer bureau. ииии ии . . и и и . ии и ии и ии и и ии и. и. Tracing of Browster island.

18

"I

December

11

~1

10
10 21 29
29

Captain Geo. Dutton, corps of engineere... . и и и и . Tracing of Bridgeport harbor. Wm. M. Eddy, surveyor general, California .иииии Tracing San Fnu1ciиco bay. Do .............. do иииииииии. do ииииии.ии Tracirig entrance to San }'rancieco bay. Do._ ..и.и.и.и.. do ..иии.. _и-do.-и .... __ Tracing Contra Costa. Do .и.ии..ииии.. do ииииииииии do . . . . . и и и и Tracing from Point Lobos, southwud. Do .ии ._ ..и.иии.. do иии.иииии. do......... Tracing Santa Barbara. Do .и _.и.и.ии... do __ ..и. __ и. do .. _...... Tracing San Diego hay. Do .и.ииииииии.. do иииииииии. do ..ииииии. Tracing San Francisco city. Do иииииииииии.. do иии.....и. do иииииии ии 1 Trnc~ng Alden's recon?aissance western. coaиt. Do .ииииии.ии... do ии.ииииии. du ии.ииииии Tracing Yerba Butиn11 island, &m Franmsoo bay. Do .ииии.иииии.. do иииииииии. do ...иии.ии Tr~ing Angel island and Racoon straits, San Fran' cisco bay. General Jos. G. Totten, ChiPf Engineer ..иииииии Tracing Milneberg harbor, Louisiana. 1'111jor Z. B. Tower, corps of engineers.......... Tracing Marblehead harbor, Mall!lachusetta. Captain G. R McClellau, corps of engineers _____ Tracing Matagorda bay, 'l'exaa. Board ofCommission .ии.иии.ииии.иии...ииииии Tracing Harrison's bar, Jame& river, Va. D<J...... и . . и и . . и и и . и . . и . и . . ии и . . .и и и ии J runes rher, from Warnick to Richmond. Commission for the improvement of Savannah river. Savannoh river, Georgia-current ehart. H . .t'. Walling, csq, civil engineer, Millville, Mass. Tracing of Salem and Beverly harbors, from Salem city to Manchester village. ProfE1s1or Jos. Henry, Smithsonian Institute . . . . . Tracing of Kent island, Cheupeake bay. Citptain H. Brewerton, corps of engineers....... Tracing of Susquehanna rhиer to Port Deposit, Md. Do .иииииииииии.иии.и. do иии и и и и иии и ииии Tracing of Chesapeake lmy, from Havre de Grace to l'11tapsco river, Md. Commillllion on Improvements..иииииииииии..иии Cape Fear 1iver, N. C. Seth H. Ingalls, esq..иии.и....иии.ии - ии..ииии - Tracing i>f Minot's Ledge and vicinity, Massacllusetta. Lieut. J. F. Gilmer, oor1>9 of engineers ииииии ииии Tracing of shore-line of Savannah river, Georgia. Lieut. J. D. Kur~, «rps of engineet'll и и и и и . и ии и Tracing of .Mi86illllppi sound, Paacagoula bay, Mi1&

1853. January

3 4

5

I

I

1

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*13

APPENDIX No. 6-Continued.
Date.
18!i3. January

To whom communicated.

Information corumunicated.

5

10
13 15

15 26
26 February
12

21 March

2
7
7 7 7

7 7 April
1

12

19
20

20 20

20 20 20 2ll 2fJ
211
i

20 22
May 17
18 24 August

1

I 1 1 l l

Captain T. J. Lee, topographical engineers .иии.. Tracing of Minot's Ledge, Masи11chusetts. Dr. B. A. Gould, jr., edit-Or of Astronomical LatitudtJ of Key West, Cedar Keys, and St. Marks, Journal. Florida, with the chronometric determinations of longituile of same places. G. W. Blunt, esq., New York.................. Copy of reduction of иheet of AlbennRle sound, N.иc. Dr. Thos, H. Buckler, Ilalliuiore, Md........... Traeiogsof Patuxent river, Magotby river, and .Middle 11nd Baek rivers, ChPsnpeake bay. Duff Green, esq., Waиhington, D. C ............ . A tracing C>f the interior of R part ot Long Island. Lieut. W'. H. C. Whiting, corps of engineers .. _.. A tracing nf Gahиeston bay, Texas. Capt. H. Brewerton, corps of engineers .ии.иииии Tracing entrance t-0 Patupsco rher, Chesapeake bay, lllaryland Lieut . .J. F. Gilmer, corps of engineers .ии.иииии. I lllap or"Sa>annah ri>er, Georgia. CA pt. H. Brewerton, corps of engineers ииииииии. 1 A tracing of the re-survey uf the Patapaco river, ChesapeKke bay. Duff Green, csq., 'V ashington, D. C . и и и и и и и и и и . A tracing of the topograpby of the interior of Long Island. Hon. R. K. Call, Ex-governor of Florida......... Copy of rt>port of Assistant F. H. Gerdes, on the reconnaissanee ot the bar, river, and babor of St. Markи, Florida. Authmities of San :Francisco, California ииииии. - . A tracing of a portion of the hydrogr11phic snl"l"cy of the harbor of San Francisco. Lieut. W. H. C. Whiting, corps of enl(ineers .иии. TraC"hig of Trinity river, Texas. 1 G. иw. Blunt, esq, New York иииии.иииииииииии. '!'racing of Chesapeake bn~и, lnl1rrirrи Duff Green, esq., Washingwn, D. Cи.иииииииииии Trncing interior of Long islanJ.-additional topogra.и phy. Light-houseBoard ииииии.иииииииииииииииииииии Traciug Genles' reconnaissance ofBarr11taria h1ty. Gov. I. I. Stevens, 'Va.sbingt-On Territory........ Map of Washington Territory, compiled from best authoritieи. Captain Shortland, Royal Navy................. Difference of longitude between Cambridge, Mass., and Halifax, N. S. Captain T. J. Lee, t.opographieal engineers...... Tracing of Cape Canaveral shoals, l'lorida. H.F. Walling, esq., Millville, Mass .иииииииииии. The relative longitndes of City Hall, New York, State House, Boston, and Greenwich, and a proof of " Narragansett bay. Tipton Walker, esq., Gal'l'eston, Texas иииииииии. Trac~ng G1tlveston city, harbor, bay, and gulf coast. L1eut. D. N. Couch, U. S. Army и.иииииииииииии 1 Tracing of Matagorda bay, Texas. Hon. Jos. S. Cottmu.n, Mary laud................ Tracing of V\'icomieo, Annemessic, Pocomoke, nnd и l\fanokin rivers, Chf'BB.plllll<e bay. Capt. H. Brewe.rton, corps of engineers .иииии.и. Tracing of Patapseo river, Cheиapeake hay. J. G. Ployd, esq .ииииииииииииииииииииии.ии.ии. Tracing of Forge river aud Moriche's bay, Long J,Jand, New York. G. Blunt, esq., New York...... .ииии. иии ии . Tracing of Albemarle sound and portion of Cheiap<иake hay. Board of Impmvements _.ии _ ии. _ .и _ии.и..ии. __ Tracing of Jlt>A.Ufort harbor, North Carolina. Lieutenant_ M. Harrison, corps of engineers ии ииии Trae!ng. of Shrewsbury river, Ne':'и .Jersey. Topographical bureau._....................... Tracmg of Cnpc Cana'l'cral, Flontln. AlexandeT Hamilton, jr., esq., New York .иииииии и Tracing Riker's island, L(llll( Tuland sound. J. Egerton, eиq ., New Orleans, Louisiana...... и. Tracing North coast, Gulf of Mexico. Dr. Jesse J. Sim'(lkins, EaatvUle, Northampton Tracing ofC11pe Charles and vicinity. county, Virginia. Captain H. W. Bayfield, Royal N~vy ииииииииии. Teleirraphi~ iliff'erence of longitude betwer>n Camи hiиidge, Massachusetts; Bangor, Maine; and Haliи fa.x, No~a Scotia.. Pacific Mail Steamship Company........... иии и Portions of the иhe et of sounding of San Francisco bay and harbor. Hon. R. S. :Floyd............................. Soundiugs of Ea.t Pnss of Apalal.'hicola. Smithsonian Institute и и и и и и и и и . и и и и и и и и . и и и и . Meteorological ohиervations in course of work. Lieut. G. G. Meade, U.S. topographical engineers. Uecunnaiиsllnce of Cedar Ke.1 s. Do .ииииииииии. do иииии.ииии.. do иииииииии. I Elevations 11nd plans of beacons. Lieut. H. G. Wright, corps of engineers .ии.ии.и и Entrance to St. John's river and Fort George inlet, Flo1иida. J . .T. Shiprnan,e8q., Farmingdale, Lonp; Island,N. Y.'i Huntington and Oyster bey. Long lиland sound. G. R. Cinnamond, esq., Baltimore, Maryland..... Curtis creek, Patflpsco river, Maryland. 'V. B. Thompson, eиq., Newbern. North Carolina. Tracing portion of Beaufort harbor, North C11rolina. .T. R. Trimble, esq., Baltimore, Maryland иииииии. I Tracing of Suиquehauna ri-cer, Marylenrl. H. I<'. Walling, eиq., Millville, Massa.eh1100tts ииии. Tracи~Ill( ofNarraganиett b1>y, Rt!ode lsl~nd. Do ииииииииии J.o ииииииииии du ииииииииии Tracmp; Rhode bland from Point Judith to Beaverи 1 . tail light.

,V.

I

1и

1

i

14*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPE"'DIX No. G-Continucd.
Date.
-~~

To wllom commullicated.

Infonnation communicated.

Angnst

I

1 1 8 Sl:'ptember 15
l7

October

2l 4
4
5

1

Trai'ing Brnver-tail light to Saughkonnet Point. Saughkonnet rivФr. Trncing P1иhit Look-out, ChesHprake bay. Traeing of Beaufort harbor, N. C ., and vicinity. Traiиing ofviciuity of Back creek, Elk river. Tracing ofBttrnegat bay, coast l)fNew Jersey. Tral"ing 1::.uint Honita, San Franeisco hay. Corn1rnra1ive rn!ip uf s~udy Hook. Tracing West bay of Galveston island and Chocolate hav. DI) ............ di) .................... i Traei{1g from San Luis ti) Jupiter island west of Brazos ri"Ver. A. Randall, esq., San Francisco, California..иииии Tradng of Point Reyes, California. IL F. иwailing, esq., !'Iilldlle. l\fassachusetts .иии. Do .иииии.... 1lo ..и..ии.и. do .иии..ии.. F. W. Risquc, esq., 'Va.;;hingt(ln, D. C . - -- .......... . \V. C. King, e~q .. Beaufort, No1иth Carolina ..иии. A. иwelch, esq. Lambertville, New Jerиey .иииии. Lif'nt. )L I--Iarrison, corps of eng-ineers. --- ......... . Light.-ho11иP B1)ard _......................... . Clrnmher of Commerce, New York city .......... : Hon. R J. \Valker, W ashiugton, D. C .иии и и ии ..
Traeiu~

i
i

I

APPENDIX No. 7.
Li.st

ef geographical positions determined by tlte

United States Coqsi Suii:ey since July, 1850.

Tlte present list is " continuation uf that published iu the annuul report for 1851, contains the geographical positions of points deterrnined astronon1iefl1ly and trigunon1etrical1y sinee the date of the fiffmer. with the re}H!tition ( i f some p<иints prel"itmsly puulislied for convenience of reforence. The folh>wing e:xplanatil)Ils will gi:ve all the iuformatiou requiи site for the uSt; of the tu blcs. Yor the purposes of the survey, the coast fa di>ided into cle>en Si'Ptions, in all of whid1 the work fa carriPd on ~irnul taneously. The survey being in dillerent stages of progress in tlie several oectiou", ""d uew results being adtled from year to year to thoMJ here given, the same divisions liave been a<lopted in this publication. The S(l\C.ral sectiotH a.re dQfined as fi1llo\.vi;: 8ection I. Frum P11ssarnaq110<1dy bay to Point Judith. Section II. Fmm Point Judith to Cape llenlnpeu. Section III. From Cape Henlopen to Cape Henry. Section IV. F1t>m Cape Henry to Cape Fear Section V. F~1иm Cape Fear ti) St. Mary's river" Section VI. From St . .i\Iary's river to St. Joseph's bay. Section VII. l'rom St. ,foseph's bay to Mobile bay. Section VIII. From Mobile bay to Vermilion bay. Section IX. From Vermilion bay to the Rio Graude. Section X. Coast of California, SELn Diego bay, to 42d parallel. S(иcti1m XI. Coast of Oregon, 42d to 4!.lt.h parallel. Tl1e tables give the latituiles and luugitudes of the trigm1ometrical points in each section, and their relative azimuths, or bearilll(il and distances. Tlrn mamwr in which these data have be1>n l)btained may he briefly explained here. Ju each section a haиe line of from Бve to ten miles is measured with all posиiJ>le accuracy. A serieR of triangles, dniving the length of thLиir sides from this base, is then established along the eoast by the measureuwnt of the augl~s lwtwei:n 1Jrn intervisible stations. In this primary seriи~s thA triangles are made as largeys the nature of the couutry will permit, bec1rnse the liability to error iucreaees with the number of triangles. On the haи"s furnished by the si1les of the primary triangles a иecundary triangulation is next established, ext(Jnding along the coast, and (}Yer the sm.,,ller bays anu Ro1wdi!, and determining a large number of points at distanceи a few miles apart. The t1iиtanceR between the points thus clet.ennined. as 11-iven in the tables, are liable to an average error of about one foot in six miles, until a final adjustment between the base lines shall h:rve been made. fo some partи of the surnиy the base lines for the primary triangulatfan have not yet bePn mf'amred, or the connexion henve"11 the иeeon<lary and primary triangulatit>n has not yet been made, in whieh ea~es thии distances depend on 11relimi1i:1 ry baиe lines, measured with иgre11t c11re, and they are liable to an average error of one foot in three miles. This applies to the posititms 011 8avan11ah river in Section V, arnl to tho"e iu Sectio11s VI, IX, X, and XI. As, on the completion of the primary triangulation iu each section, the several serieg form one connected chain, the tliirrrent bases atford verification of each other, and of the triang11lation connecting them. Tho first three sections are thnи connected. Ob8ervatio11s for latitude and nzimuth arc made at a number of stations of tl1e primary triani;r111a.tion in each s1.,>etion. Th<1 dilforeuces of latitude, longitudu, and azimuth between these and other ~tations are tht'n computed, undor the suppoиition that the earth iи a spheroid of revolution of the following dimensions, which are those determined by Bessel from all

~и

the measurements m!We to the present time, ,иiz: Er11mtori11l rarlius fH77:197. 16 metres. Polar ra<liuB = G;K,607~. 96 motres. Eccentridt.y = O. 01'16!>083

=

It has heen fouuu that the difference8 of latitude anti longitude, ns computed in this manner from the distance and azimuth bct1voeu ilrn stations, and which aro ca.lied geocletic, dilfor from tho;;e obtained by astronomioal obwrvations at tbe

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.
several stations, hy quantities which are greater thnn the errors of the
oh~ervations.

*15
ffи

SnPh di-ai::r<'ements ar<' ilur

hwal

inиpgularitit>fi in thr>: fh::nre and l}iи!-1'"\ity of the earth; aud the error reRnlting- frn1n tht~m iu 1l1P tletиPrminati~111:-.. Hf latitudu nnd of the meridian phurn i;;; d1иsig11ated as 8tation error. It amounts. aeeordiug to t11e- l't.':-:ulr~ t~htaiut>1l at pre~tи11t. to

bH,ween """ 1u1t1 two seconds of arc in the eastern section of tbe survey, aud tD about hair' a ;crnu<l iu 1hc bettiuus "ouil1 Df the D<иlawnre.
In order to elimina.t-e the influenct'. {)f station -errors on tlu~ general r<>sult~r ohRervationf'l arc iuade at n number of i:;tations, the results are rcfrrrecl to a central st:ui<l11 hr means of tlw gc,ocle1ic J.iHcrcnees, and the mean of aH b u"~d for th" computation of the pof>itions given in tlw tablt>8. The х:eol!rnpliieal prn~itioTJ~ nmst thfиre1~1rc be eon~idered aR liable tu
future d1imges, from the aeeumulntinn of new
of the triaug-ulation.
ohservatiun~,

and tl1e fiu:d

dl~.-us.:-:i11n

of tJl thP flи:rnlts uhtnini:d.
di~rnurиea,

The di.ffcrrmces af longitude are obtained, as has hePn HtaWtl, by <'nmpuration from tlw

latirurl<'R, nnd azimuths

!11 fi(ldin~ Up these ai.fferenc-eS frOlU Rtat!on t(1 ~tHtiolJ, Wl 2l{Ф:Ull1Uladon of thE' HlifllOi1tuhlt:- el'TOI";'. is rnиobab!e. ThPy n re eheeketl, ho\'r('Vl''T, by Uifftиrenees of longir11flf', ,]et<иrmiued hy ITI(>ans of the elcetrOиmag-uec teltиgrnph, in en,ry ~ection where rhe intrudnction of the latter makes it prarrk"ble. Si-:ATOX STATION, in \Yashington city, hns been selecteJ a~ tlaи centre for tlw ttиl( 1 ~rnphic diflf>rencer~ of lon~itu<lt'. TI.o RPf'tion~ at prci:::t-nt cnnne.cted by te]e[!raph are Beeticn~ I, II, Ill, .ancl Y. The first thrtиo bt-_иiug ttJ~n coirntиeted lJy trian~ gulal iu11, the, cheek on the geodetic dil!C>renccs of loni;itucle is here olnained. and The "i;ret'lllt'Ilt is Vl'ry cl Me. The lo11gitud(иR from Greenwieh in thc::.ic F:rctious ilep-end npo.n that of Carnbridgc Oh:4.tиrvurtnry, lt8 1liиtPl'mined hy chronomf~t1иic <liflt~reu(иes Let\\иeen Live,rpool and Uamhridg-c, and o{и(иulrations:, erиJip~t>~, aml nw:rn cи11hni1rntio11f<I., obi;ern~11

!Jr

at rnrious observatories in rile Unite.I Srnte>, and reftиJTNl to Cambridge by means of telegraphic diffcre11ees. The following statement sl10ws the result up to the present time:

Longitude of Gamhridge from Grccnu:ich. h. m. s.
lly moon culminations observ!'d at Carnhridge, Hncfaon, Ohio, 'Vilkes' ObRenиHt(lry, nnil Nntionol Obscrvatorr. 4 By eclipиcs and nceulrntions at Cambridl.(c, Brooklyn, Philatlelp!Jia, and "'ilk es' Ol╗c;natury и...и..иии.и.и.. 4 By "hronomd1иic differenceR ..иии..ии...иии..иии.....иии....и.......ии...иииии.ии.ииииии..и.ии..иииии 4 The ]011git11rle adopted for thP. p1░1'.>1и11t is 4h. 4-1111. 2~.:is., or 71c 07' 22.f>O". In Sections IV, VI, VIII, ""d IX, tlw loHgilnlfoo 11rc counlcd from wwe c<omrnl stutiun in each, for '1иl1ich we present the following data, sulиject to future corrections:
0

44 2,.;.4 44 2~).(j 44 3!1.l

have at 43.ri 24 43 25

Sec. IV. Stevenwn's Point, weиt of Greenwich .ииииииииииииии.иии.ииииииии.и ииииии-иии ииииииииииии Sec. YI. Captи Flori.la, west ofGrtиenwiclt ........................................................ Do .и.. Sa11d key, west of Greenwich .иии.и.ииииииииии..иии..ии...ии.иииии.ии.ииииии.ииии.иииии. See's. VIII and IX. Fort Morgan, Mobile Point, west of Greenwich ииии.ииииииииииии.иии.ииии.ииии..и

7G SU 81 83

JO 09 52 00

The longitudes in Sections X and X 1 are reclwncd from Greenwicl1. Th Py dq1eml on moon eulminations obsииrved at PoiHt Conception, San DiPgo, Point Pinoи, l'ort Orford, Cape Diwppoi11tmm1L and Cape Fluttery, eomparetl with corresponding ol>servativns at Greenwich and Awcricnn obserYatDries, tlllU on chruullmctric dilforeuces between the same aml other sta~iuns. ~

Explanation of lhe tohlcs.

The first colmim on the left contains the name of the sevt>ral stations or trinngulation point.. ThPir genPrnl localiry is intinrnte<l by the heading nt the top of the page, by mean~ of wliich they will be rendily found 011 the okewhes ticcoUlи pnnying !lie tables. Su~-heading' in r.11e first. columu indicate the locality more minutelr where it. is prnctieable. The stations are generally either Jlrominent objeets of permanence, rnch as spires, light-houses, hearons, &c., or tl1ey are points on promiuent hills, c1q1c;s, <иr pointи of land, where иi1wa1s ha.vte been erct'ted for the 1mrpose of the survey, uud which arc marked on the grouncL In a иm;;ll number of cusи's in the first three section,,, hut much more fre<pwntly iu tf,.,
ROUthern l'leetionR, where 1wttlernents on the coast are
110

!Ol:pnr~e.

a11d

fr~w

pcrrnttnent ohjecr-s are ro he fi_HnHl, the Rtntinniil hn\.-H
l!TOllt1d

The latter g<'nerally con~L~tS of pn:::ts or stmH~s set around the point., while t1ie <иentr1..и of tho station is designated by an earthen cone or glass bot.ti" hnried nn<lmи thP snrfa~e of the ground, arnl marked on top by a stone OT poot. \Vhere the station is on a rock, a copper bolt., or a hole filled with lcatl or иulphur, will be fonuu to deoigи nate the station point.

ntl1er distiuguishinl( mark than the sigm1l erected <111 the spot; and after its decay, the mark left on the

to a,.,ig-

natc the exact spot. Tl1e sketches showing tl1e configи1ration of the land as well as the relative positions of the stations, no great dHnculty will be experienced in Jimling the latter when desired for local иurrnys or reference. In any cMc where minute descriptions of particular points are re11uired, they can be had by applicatiou addressecl to the Coast Surv~y Office. The second and third columns contain the latitudes and ltiugitmfos of the stations n:imed. The fourth column contains the azimuth of the line joining the station namecl in the first column to that named in the fifth-that is to say: the angle wbic.h that line m:ikes with the meridian of the former st:ttion, reckoned from south around hv west, through the whole circle. The sixth column gives the ba11k azimuth of the same line, or the angle which it makes with the meridian of the latter statiou, reckoned as bt'fore; the dilferenee bdwcen tho azimuths is tltc fourth and tliooo in the sixth column being t80░, less the ine1inati1111 of the meridians at the two stati.ms. The seventh, eighth, and ninth columns ghиe the distances, in metres, Jartl", and milrи, hntwl'Pll the ~rations n:imed in the first and fifth columns. The relation of the metre to the yard used in obtaining theиe reиults is, 1 wet re 1. U93ati!l6 yarcl, or 3!!.:3665115 L'nited States standard inches. For each station the azimuths and distances to two other stations are given. In every case the lines so given have aetnally been obsen'ed. In en.eh section the иttt.tions of the primary trhmg1ilatirm arc disTini;uished by hein!( p~i.nted in s>1A.1,L ca1иrTALии In Seetion IV a number of points previously published are repeote<l, with slight ehanges in their positions, 11ri8ing from an adjuitment of the tdangulatiun betweeu the Doclies Islauil base aud 11 prelimiuary base of verification near lleaufort.

=

16*
U~ITED

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

STATES CO.AST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPIIIOAL POSITIONS.

Section L-Coast of .. Vew Hampshire.
Name or иtalion.

Sketch A.

I
I I I

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

I !
!

To station-

:

Back nzimuth.j Distance. Distance. Distance.

i

.ll.J!,auienti.ctU. ии и и . , иииии и f

.

4;

l~ ~-90 i 7~ 4{ 1~_,5 1 ..... : ии : . .': .. (............................. : .. '. ..': .. 1.:.~и:~~:и.... ~~:~'.и..
71 1130.38

i
!

.

~
4:1638.0

Miles.
26 49 16.77
14,47 16,50

Patuccawa и ...............
J,le.

43 07 11.91 ,
13.~6

254 1513 166 19 48
2s.J 18 20 109 52 26

Aga.ment1cus........... 1

74 e5 58 346 16 35

46527.6
29516.1 25465.2 20048.6

of Shoal<. ........... , 12 59
43

70 36 29.071
70 53 05.18)

Stratham Hill .............

ro

20.15

I
'I

Patuccawa ....... ~.....

hlr~ of Shoale .........

Aga.menucus ...........

1
1

26990.5
2fo63.l

104 Q9 40 289 :J9 51 :l13 18 23 70 16 36
62 40 57 263 29 19 137 o;, 48 239 33 18 13 01 21 200 15 53 31 2-2 :l9 241 44 35

23~1l6и3 I

Hampton Falls .... .. , ..... , 42 54 42.54
Great Boar'-s Head ........

I 1 42 5.'i 03 61

70 53 30.80 70 47 24.80
70 49 16.82

I
i

133 30 40 250 05 00
242 33 30 85 33 28 317 04 32 59 36 11 19'l 57 57 20 16 42 214 22 19 64 47 08

Patuccawa...... ,,..... Mes of Shoals.........

1 l>les of Shoals ......... j
llam))tou }'alls ......... .

33(i4i.3 24ill7.3

3679";.7 269'20.7
18.10-2.8 9ltl4.7 4078.9 7303.2 33100.3 5160.4 1304.5 6148.6

20.90 15.29
10.40 5.17 2.3i 4.15 18.EO 2.93 0.71 3.49

I llampton ....... ....и... '"j i Hampton Academy ...... " I
Hampton, Onbodox churcllj
eprre.

16736. 7 E325. 7
3729.9 6678.3 30268. l 4ol8.8 ll92.9 5622.5

42 56 :32.14

Little Boar'и Head ........ J 42 57 27 .07 42 56 0-0.23
42 56 12.76

70 46 H.69

I I

I

Great Boar's Head...... Ham1>to11.Falls ..........1
........... / Great Boar"; Head ...... : Hampton ............. Hampton Falls.........

Aga.m~nticus

70 49 46.521'

ии1

Hampton, llaptist church
sptre.

42 56 15.00
42 56 16.03

41.321 70 49 52.15 I
70 49
70 49 23.481 70 51 34.54 70 51 33.96 70 51 45.41

61 52 38 222 52 50 60 00 20 236 34 16
196 54 15

Hampton Falls ........ ., Hdmpton...... ..... .... Ifampton Fallи......... Hampton.......... .. .. Hampton...............

241 50 O~ 42 53 07
240 01 51 56 34 40

5901. ! 816.3
5720.1 9;9.8 519.4

645.3.3 e!l-J. 7
M.5.5.:J 1049.6 568.0

:.l,67 0.51
3.55 0.60 0,3'J

Hampton, wind-mill ...... .

16 54 20 :: ;: : 2.J9 49 12 88 35 30 ~ 07 33

Hampton Falls Academy ..

42 54 57 .87 42 54 59.03
42 54 10.22

::

79 50 31

~ ~ ~::::

:::::: ::::: :::: Hampton Falls.........

::: 2678, 7 5651.9 11698.0
6135.9 5525.4 2382.4 12462.3
2122~.6

I :::: :::~
29'.!9.4
6180.7 2950.5
6710.0 6042.4 2605.3 13628.4
2649.5. 7

1.66

Hampton
tower.

Falls,

church

268 32 40 79 08 53 254 24 05 217 33 41 l!l9 45 39 85 19 10
105 08 49 120 40 22 107 38 14 177 32 0-2 107 ~ 04 181 56 o-2

Great Boar'и Head...... llamptou Fallo.........
Great Boar's Heed ..... . Hampton ............... .

3.51 1.68
3,81 3.43 1.48 7.74

Seabrook, Onhodo:x church 111pire.
White Island Light .......
Smulty Noee Uland .и. ....

:n

74 27 02 35 22

42 58 00.40 -42 58 00.87
42 58 29.05

70 37 04.63 70 35 51.87
70 36 26.49

Isles of 'Shoals ....... .. Little Doar's Head ....... .
StrathRm Hill ...иии.и Isles of Shoals ..... ... .
H

19 46 03 265 12 56

284 57 04 300 39 57
287 26 53

979.4

1071.0 2.5938.0 1486.3
25787 .8 l3:B.3

15.05 0.61
14.73 0.84

Star Island .............. .

Stratham Hill ииииииииии Isles of Shoals ....... .. StrathRm Hill .......... I Isles df .dhoals ..... .... .
Agam<-'nticus иии ..........

357 3-l 00
287 11 46 I 56 03 12 13 07 204 21 OG 10 39 31 92 3J 34 206 16 49 203 56 48
97 52 23

23718.6 la59. l 23581.3 1218.3 28100.9 2010.0
2bl79.4

Stnr bland Chu1ch ...... "/ 42 58 33.60 Jenniи Ledge .............
Lock's Point ..........и... 42 58 26.41

70 36 30.89 70 45 36.11 70 44 45.51 70 44 00.14 70 48 11.22 70 46 03.44 70 46 02.39 70 42 47.15 70 42 59.33 70
.j!j

14.65 0,76
17.58

192 10 07 24 21 31 190 37 05
27~

Little Boar's Head, .... , .

30949.0 2198.1 28629.0 12309.l 7412.3 27117.9 17594.0 8'280.3

1.25
16.27 6.99
4.21 1.57

1

42 59 29.05

27 56

tsre:i:pg~~~;:: .и::::::
Lit.t1e Boar's H end .... . . Lock's Point........... ..
1'1<ии of Shoals ....... .. Stratham Hill ......... .
Jennis Ledge .. , ....и , . Foss .......и........и..
Jennis Б.-edge и , .... , . , и Foss Station ..и.и....и..
Agamenticu~

112;i5.9
6778. I 2531. l 160E8.6 7571.8

Foes .................... . Breakfast Hill ............ .

43 00 44.02
43 00 23.72
43 00 38.53
43 00 42.72

26 18 20 23 57 19
277 44 24 118 30 3ll 351 21 51

298 27 IS
171 2-2 10

10,00 4.70
2.57 1.74
2.&I

Rye, Orthodox church spire
Rye, Baptist cbmch opire ии
Pulpit Rock.. и .. и и .......

266 31 06
351 56 38 269 09 40 185 48 22 174 49 23

86

;);!

30

412.3. 5 2796.9
4247 .9

4509.3 3058.6
41145.4

171 56 56
ll9 11 03

2'68.3
21281.6 :l054.0
18293. l 13005.0 15195.0 12107.5 15170.0 16925.0

3027.3 2:N12.9 20004.8 15-JOO. l
16616.8 13240.4
16589.5
33:Jll.8

l.72
13.22 1.91

43 01 56. 75
43 03 3S.32

Newcastle .......... ..

.......... .

5 49 'it!

3.54 49 15
7 38 49

New Ca.tie ............. .. New Caatle Light ........ .
Fon Comtitution Flag-eta.If \Vhale'a-back Light .......
East .-tulof bate, of survey ' by U. I!. to11. иnvneen.

187 :n 35 80 31 46 76 43 34 ll2(I 07 21
76 28 23 184 43 28

Agamenti<"1H11. ~ .......... .

Stratham Hill ........ .. Stratham Hill ........ .. of Shoals ....... ..

11.37

260 24 62 256 36 06 140 11 15
256 20 58 4 44 10

8.64

43 04 H.33

11.76

lиIии

7.:>2
9.43 10.52
9,R9

9.44

43 04 16.26
43 03 !l9.91 43 Oil 33. 71

70 42 13.52 70 41 27.89 7() 42
~.95

Strlltllam Hill ........ ..

AgamenticUJ< .......... .
Stratham llill и...ииииии Jsles of Shoals ....... ; . Pulpit Rook .......... .. NewC.,,tle .......... ..

18508. 7
17413.l 11395.1
~-2

82 21 48 319 ll9 15
22 49 32 158 19 o9

262 1a 139 32 39 !lO'J 49 18 3:!8 19 3G

m

15003.2 10420.1 1237.3
0015,b

6.47
0.76 1.27

1353.l

01'' THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*17

UNITED STATES COAST SlJRVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Sectian !.-Coast
Name or station.
Latitude. Longitude.
ALimutJ1.

ef Maine.

Sketch A.
I

--~I
Di~tance.

I I -----11--____,__, _ _ _ _1r---r--L_l''
To stationBack azimuth. Distance. !Distance.
Seward ииииииииии ,. и иииии 43 04 09.41 70 4-0 23. 73 70 56 00.94 70 47 0-2.81 70 51 38.32 70 45 00.67 70 49 50.60 70 49 39.11 70 54 44.83 70 54 19.07 70 51 14.17 :J29 49 31 73 ill! 44
;}48

--,I

Mes of Shoals......... New Castle.............
Hamptou Fali:s.

:I

149 52 ll 253 20 57 47 23 54
168 02 27

t!

l~o!o.3

M~~es.

1

\

36.4.2 2'73.'13.8 16394.i 24158.l 15923.6 27029.2 6699.5 12301.1 10.)&LO
29490.2 7828.6

11064.t! i 4018.0 i

}:urds~

M!l;,ии tL;>7 2.28
lfi.98

Newmarket ииииииииииииии Froil's Hill ............. ..
Wentworth ............ .. Great Hill. .............. .. Newington.. .. .. и .. и и и и и и и Newingt<>R Church........

43 03 22.32 43 09 43.2.'i 43 08 22.94 43 05 21.87 43 05 50. 57 43 05 52.09 43 01 03.72 43 01 38.57 43 04 22. 71

227 13 46 00 44 ;f.!3 3'J 30 31 00 07 85 27 47
248 la 56 63 Ol 58 121 54 01 115 00 21 34 13 24

Agamenticuo ........... 1

ииииииии1

29B91.4 1792d,8

I'

10.rn

Isles of Shoals......... Stratham Hill.......... Patuccawa.... .. ... .. .
Frost'и Hill............

143 39 4.1 210 55 59 265 14 1'! 68 19 05
'142 56 ~7 301 49 29

26ll8.6 17413.6 i 295.'.'.S.3 7326.4
13455.4 11..574.4

I

15.0! 9.89 16. 79 4.16 7.64
6.57

Stratham Hilt.......... Wentworth............

Patuccawa .ииииии , иииии
Stratham Hill ......... .
Stratham HiU ии..ииииии \'\rentworth ии.и , , ииииии

274 45 ;J3 214 11 11

3'2249.6 6561.1

18.:l!l

4.86
4.98 3.34

35 3'l :u 150 00 35

215 30 04 a29 59 14
338 03 06 4J 30 55

8-012.3 5375.l
3176, 7

8762.0 5878.I
I

Stratham, Orthodox church
spire.

158 03 58
223 29 47

Newmarket ............ .
Stratham Hill .......... .

4610.4

5041.8 3563.3
4315.3 2317.4
30611.4 4948.l

2.86 2.03
2.45 1.31 17.39

Stratham, Baptist church towe.r. Woodman'и Point........ Durham ................. .

144 14 49 232 06 08
JOO 51 55
33 4-1 0-l

Newmar'ket .и ,, ииииииии
Stratbam Hill ииииииииии \
Patm:~c-awa ...и.иии.....

:J24 13 39
52 06 58

3946.1 2119.l
27992 .2 4521.7

Stratham Hill иииииииии.

280 3R fi4 213 42 47

2.81

43 05 17.691 70 53 17.76 43 07 57.14 : 70 M 01.83 43 02 10.70 43 02 00.01 43
l}6

45 03 05 257 45 11

Newmarketи.иии.ииииии. Newington и.ииииииии..
N C\vington ии , и , ии , ииии. Stratham Hill ......... .

226 01 13 77 47 J3 119 04 03 165 45 07 273 48 52 319 36 02
:321 14 53 145 28 3<J
296 52 ~5 271 36 59

5128.8 4i92.2
8045 .5 10709 .6 4634 . 7 i574.2

5608.7

s~o.6
11711. 7

I

3.18

2.98
5.-00

Durham Spire ..... , ииииии
Greenland, Orthodox cb. spire. Greenland Academy ...... Bro<>ks .................. .

299 00 30
;14:; 43 47

B.98.3 и

6.65 2.88
4. 70

70 49 40.87 70 49 41.52

93 51 11 139 38 30 HI 17 21 3'~ 27 36

Stratham Hill ........ ..
Durham иии.ииииииииии.

828:.!.9

506<' .4
85;;().6
3944.3

Durbwn ииииииии..иииии. Ilreaklast Hill ......... .
WP.ntwortll ии..и...иии.

7819.0
;)606.8

4.85 2.24 4.41 20.68 21.19 5.54

38.86

70 46 58.25
70 46 28.86 70 46 30.04 70 44 06.54 70 00 11.91
70 47 02.81

116 55 36 01 53 45
95 44 511 128 19 09

Patuceawa ииии , ииииии..

7008.3 33293. 3

7762.5 3640!! .5

Banlett ................. .
PoverlJ' Heights ииииииии.и
Oss1P&I!!: ииииииииииииииииии

43 05 23.96 43 04 M.14 43 35 17.23 43 l!6 50. 91 43 09 43.2.'i 43 13 11.81 43 07 11.14
43 JO 01.52

Patuccawa иии.иииииии.
Wentworth ....ии..и.и.
Stratham HiU ......... . Bartlett. ............... .

275 27 44 308 15 37
241 54 37 -1 42 36

34110. 7 8912.6 10130.5 889.5
407 47. 8

37302.4 9746.6

61 59 07 181 42 35 354 26 43
48 48 57
323 32 JO

11078.4 972. 7 44560. 6 4130ll.O 26418.6 28468. 7 10049.6
13405.5

6.29
0.-5.'l

Agamentieus и.и.иииии. Agamooticus .и , ииииииии Isles of Shoalи ........ . [иIии of Shoals ........ .
Againentic':18 иии.ии.ии.

174 28 43

25.32 23,47 15.01 16.17 5.71 7.61

FJetchet's Neck ....... , иии.. Frost's Hill ............ ..

2-28 34 33
14J 39 43

27774.4 24158.l 26032 .8 9180. 7
i.2258.5

Bald Head Clilf......... ..
Sweat's Point ........... .
Cape Neddock .......... ..

70 34 24. 79 70 38 00.35
70 35 37 .86

6 12 29 ~2 10 22 159 22 14 352 01 11
ll!9 31 59 3 19 06

186 11 04 272 05 44

hies of Shoals ....... ..

Agamenticus иииииииииии

339 20 03 172 0-J 20 309 28 11 183 18 31

14895.5 9769.0 !.10042.4

16289.3 10683.0 21917 .B 11430.9 13423.2
24734.9

11.25

~re:;n:~:i~и:::. и.::::
Agamenticus и . и . и ии , , . Frost's Hill ........... .
Stratham Hill ......... .

i

6.07
12.~

York.................... .

43 08 09.91

70 38 14.67

157 31 34 103 :n 12
58 59 27

337 2!I 33 283 31 11
2.18 49 42

10452.8 12274. 7
22618.5

6.49 7.62
14.05 0.73
3.94 IO.JO

York. Church Spire ииииииии York, buoy ............. ..

43 00 39.28
43 OS 35.10

70 38 48.66
70 35 09.81

319 43 08

York ................. .
Agamentieusии , ии , иииии
~menlieus ..........

139 43 31 318 48 11 330 26 17
:lll2 50 59

1188.l 6346.9 16589.4
20830. 8

1299.3 6940.8 18141. 7

1
Boon Island ............. .
Boon Tllland C..igbt ииииииии 43 07 15.99 4;i 07 15. 74 43 23 49.12 43 20 34.07 43 17 15.0l

138 50 17 150 :JO 25 122 59 49 36 47 O!I
311 54 16

York.................. .

70 28 l i .52 70 28 15.66 70 28 2:1.12
70 33 56.92 70 34 03.51

.

Isles of Shoals ........ .

!ll6 41 33
216 48 39 aJ2 48 14
2'!1 47 49 314 57 47

18594 5 18613.8 20870.1

i
I

22779. 9
20334 .4

12.94 11.55

1211 57

oa

Isles of Shoals, ииииииии Agameuucus .......... .
Aga.menticus ........... .
Oooipce ................ .

2035..5.5 22822.9 28377.4 32800.0
9303. 0 18072. 7

11.56 12.97
16.12 18.64
5.2~

Fairfield Hill ............ . Cole'o Hill ............... . Wen.Neck .............. .

135 08 36

41 56 36

;JO()()l.7' 8507. 0 165>ti .3

25~49.3

270 57 13 lJ6 .25 22

Kennebunk Point ..... .

91 01 J2
216 20
~

Agarnentieus ........... .

10.26
7.47 3.82

53 !18 57 181 23 00

Agam-enticus иииииииииии Cole's Hill ............ .

233 24 03 1 2J ();'j

12004.2 6144.6

13149.3 6719. 4

18*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section I.- Coast

ef }1faine.

Sketch A.
Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.

Name or stati6n.

I

Latitude.

I

Longitude. I

Azimuth.

To station-

--,-,-,,--1'--,-.-.-,-1
Ogunquit................ 1 43 15 23.151 70 35 Summit ........ииииии....
B\JOtbbey........ .ии и и ... .

51.481

'---;:;:;;--;:::- ----;;:
334 14 07 ) Dnlrl Hood Cliff ........ \\:ens Neck и.......... 215 11 13

154 15 07 35 12 27
317 33 37 336 40 45

/

4'199.8 4223,8
33934.1 4190.1 33l1l0.9 3520.5
35258,5

49-20.9 4619.0
37109.3
458'2.2

2.79 2.62
21.0B

43 21 44.42
43 20 52.37

70 27 Oll.H
71J 2ll 28.56
70 27 39,Q.5

137 45 17
1.';6 41 38и

! Fairfield Hill .......... . 1
0l"sipee и.и..и.ии.и ..иии

2.60

143 36
24~

rn

nи,ipae.................
Sununit .... ,. .... . . ... .

3'23 26 15
52 il !j2

50 17

36296.6 3649.9
38..1!)57 .6
682~.9

20.62 2.19

Kr.nne.btmk Point.и....... ! 43 20 29.31

141 05 27 loO 54 11 293 29 27 143 39 08 :!2и 40 39 143 45 14
44 5l 10 2"27 43 20

Ossipee................. Fafrfield Hill ..... , .. .. .
O.:!~ipec,,

320 5и1 08 350 53 41
113 :J2 43 3-23 30 44

6244.6

l)l.90 3.88

Kennebu.nk, Unitarian ch.
&pi.re. ,

43 23 H.90

70 31 54.71 70 31 53.88

Sutnmit ...ии.ии...и.. и.. , ... , ..' .... , , '

70()-2,7 7558.2 27695.9' 30287.4
5396.9 27793.7
5901.9

4.35
17.2l

Kennebunk, Orthodox cb.
spire. Kf'nnebunk Port Observa~I

43 23 11.18
43 21 20.87
~l

Boothbey ............ . 1 O:;sipee., ии. , и.и... , и... ~
Ogunquit......... " ....

tory.

I

Summit .............. .

I

142 42 19

323 36 50
224 45 36

30394.4
17013.6 118l .2

3.35 17.27
9.66 0.67

47 43 H

15557 .8 1080.1
11361.1
222!1.8

Ken11Fhur1k Port, Orthodox 43 church 15pire. \ Kentlf'hUnk Port, Baptist church SJиire.

44.60

70 28 20.09 70 28 13.67

42 57 28
43 42 58 43 26 26 270 43 04

WeHsNeck ........... . uoothb~y ..... ......... }
Summit и...........и..
WeU!'!Neck .ииии.ии

2:."2 53 32
2234;! 11

I 12424.2
2438.4

7.06 1.38 7.12 0.00
16.34 l,6S 1.20 5,69

43 21 45.0-2

Cape Porpoise Light .... ,.
Wells Cllurcll Spire......
Stage Island ............. ,

43 21 26.80
43 19 33.30
43 22 14.75

70

2j

I 11.26

иии1

22:1 2-2 26
!IO 43 48

11469.o 1446.3
2ti299.9

I 12542.2 1581.6
28760.8 2'J69.5
2120.21 100-21.9 '

55 29 54 101 33 16 194
~9
4.~ IJ2 05 29

Sumrnit ................ j
Kennelnrnk. Point ..... .
Cole's Hill. .......... "

Agamcnticus .. ,, . ... , и , . J

70 34 18.80
70 24 48.17
70 23 31.80

l

235 JB .55 281 31 55
14 43 17 79 10 03

2715.4
1938.8 9164.4

121 03 52 73 36 53 92 51 48 33 36 JG

Fairfield Hill ......... ..
8un1ruit ............... .

301 01 25 25:3 35 16 27Q 18 28 213 35 24
2'29 36 23

5646.5 3315.2 6563.6 3106.0
1458.l 4583.1

6174.8
3625.4

3.51 2.06
4.08
1,93

Timber Island............ Crow Hill .... ,...........
Warn....................

43 23 38.60 43 22 15.04
43 ~4 15,59 43 24 и43.29

Fairfield Hill ... ,,, и. ,., Stage Island .... , .. , , , .
f:uirnnit .иии.иии..ии...

7177.8 33116.6
~12.0

70 26 20.10
70 23 48.97

49 36 57 2354426
341 17 56
19 39 59

1"94.5
1317 .9

Timber !Sand ..и.и. и , , . Timber hиland .и.... .... Stage Island ......... .
Ward ................. . fi('tehet's N et'.!k .. ии , .и.

55 46 22

0,90 2.85 0.75
2.41i

161 18 08 199 39 18

1205.l
3959.4

43-29.9
rns1. 7 5622.0

Hoyt's Neck ............. ,

70 22 38.86 70 !l.2 17 .75 70 26 12,58

6l 33 08 219 59 09

241 32 20
40 00 50

1793.8 5141.0 3299.3
7617 .2

.:us
2.05 4.73
17.00

1.11

Biddeford.................
Nason. .... .......... ....

43 25 .55.Dl
43 26 .55.74

2!19 01 5.1 2(16 21 41
l~

Fletcher's Neek .. ии , ...
Stage l;;;land ...и.и... , .

59 03 20 26 23 24

3608.0 8329,Y 313:36.4

47 2,5 7 J5 24

3ro 35 oo 187 34 45

28555.1 9691.2

10598.0

6.0i!

Vi;;inity of Portland. Moun
lND&PEMDBMClii:....

43 45 a:J.17

70 18 53.04 70 20 11.91 70 91 14. 72

Fletchcr'o Neck.,., ....... f 43 26 50.91
Blue Point Hill . .. .. .. . и и и

...;~и~-~.. и~::~:и;:::~~~~~~:::: .....~и~и~ии) ..~~~:~и ..;.~:~и ....~~:~
187 51 28
3.."l:I 05 18

43 33 08.\!8 43 30 21.27

Mount Independence...
Fietcher'@Neek.... .. ..

Stratton Island............

I

i

70 18 20.17 70 15 37.i'l 70 13 58.6!!

!!I 09 4l 142 45 55
25 14 55 30 06 28 56 56 46 131 s913

Fletcher'и Neck........ Blue Point Hill..... .. ..

I 5!:1174.5 ~~ ~.e 25 ) 696 ~.и 9 , 3 55 I 64 7 , 7
I
173 06 O'l

7 53 06

25342.9
l~.5

14.40
7 .29

11730.9

~

7612.2 7080.4 15.519. 7 7954.6
7664. 7

Grandy HilL .............. ) 43 33 45.22 Rlehrnond Island .......... i 4.1 32 25.24

Fletcher'и Neck........
Stratt~n

I

Island.........

20,5 41 47 210 04 36 236 5:l 46 311ss05
1

14191.8 7274.0 7008. 9 3322.5
21730.8 12133.1

8.8'.I 4.52

Stratten fsland... .. .. .. GrandyRiI! ............
Motint Tndcpt.mdence ..

3633.3
23764.2 13268.4
14~U.4

2.07
l~.50

4.35

John's Hill...............

43 34 45.00

70 12 00.64

lM 49 13
75 4$ 31

Blue Point Hill ........ , i

.!

336 41 49 255 42 29 344 01 39 146 12 48 1116 01 57 169 -08 25 144 28 49 !!;!7 04 36

7.54

Bramball'a Hill...........
Monnt Joy................
Pleasant Rill..............

43 38 46.43
43 35 43.50 43 35 39.90 43 35 14.65

70 16 13.15
70 14 50.95 70 17 30.32

164 03 29 326 10 14 16 02 l!9 349 07 49 324 27 31
47 07 ll

Mmmt Independence... John'и Ilill. иии .. .. .... и Grandy Hill.... .. ии ии .. Richmond Island...... . Grandy Hill............ Blue Point Rill......... Grandy Hill .... , ..... .. Blue Point Hill ....... .. Pleasant Bill .......... .

13002.8 B9tl6.6
37117 .5 6229.6
4348.1 6872.3 6134.4 44ll0.3 5007.1

9805.6
4152.8 6812.5 475.>.0 7515.4 6708.4 4833.9

B.09 5.57 !2.36
3.87

4.111
3.81

2.70

Oak Hill, chimney of Capt. J. 8. Thomton)g bou~.

70 19 41.89 70 15 58.21

296 42 l!9
28 06 47

!IOS 05 43
~1

116 45 17

2.7:.
3.23
1.64

3.54 55 a:i / Grandy Hm .......... ..
51 24 42

174 55 47

23

as

2643.0

5694.3 2890.3

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*19

'UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS. Section I.-Coast of Maine.
Na.me or stntion.

Skctcli A.

Latitude.

Longitude.

J

Azimuth.

I
'I

To station-

!Back azimutb.\ Distance. Distance. Distance.

I

(>

'

//

Jordan ................... .

43 35 35.47

.,

1

;i

I
1

-----1

101544.24

2~~g~g

Wi~:::';;, ~;1i:::::::::::i
0

I

1 и

1---1-----2~~rn:
193 49 04 270 20 00
176 09 56 3<'5 31 53

I Jlrtres. i
1

White Head ...ии.иии.....
Moody, ииииии.ииииии.иии.

43 38 45.05

70 11 09.30 70 13 14.18
70 07 08.58 70 l:i 11.49

i
i
I

43 42 36.51
43 38 57.54
43 37 04.53
43 36 18. 70 43 38 15.00 43 39 4a.s7

I 3~,()

13 .'iO 00 I Jolrn"<IJ;ll. ............ J 90 2.1 30 I Dcornboll's llill ......... I
\I

I I
I

~~:~!

Yards.

~~~t~

Miles.

~:~~

7628.51 6608.51

8342.3 72':J6.9

4.74 4.10
9.ll!i 5. 7~

09 2i) 1~5 :l5 47

Joirn'eHill ............. '1 Mount hrdeprnlence ..

и1
,j

14582.9; 15947.4 !l3:l0.6 10l9l. 7

Green bland ......и..... ,
Dyer ..................... .

I l
I

127 :m ;,1 43 Ol 27 24-0 14 00 162 26 54
2-23 39 40 294 31 10

I l

I John Mour!t lndependence ... J d!ill. ............ i
White Head ...........

I

3fl7 31 45 222 44

!

57

и 19961,3, :21829.1 llJ6.'i4 .1 I 11651.0
6252.1 1643".l . . 5)
6:J04.6 2&l.J.3
I\

Mount lnde. pen<lcnce ..

6ll 1fl 47 342 24 21
43 41 S4 114 3'l 3L

I

12.40 6.62 3.88 10.21
3.91 1.79

6'3:r..l 17970.1
6894.5 3155.3 5318.8 4953.9

flummieweU'sHouse,chimи ney.
State Reform School, east tower.
Capisick: Church Spire , и. ,
Bennett's ho'Qse on Brown 'i;;

7Q 19 27.36 I

Bramhall'~Hi11......... Pleasant Hill .......... "

1

70 18 08.781

I

;149 47 07 I Pleasant Hill ии.ииииии.. ] 298 39 5:J I Dyer. .................. ,
358 19 17 111 2j 34

I

70 17 40.16 70 16и49.00 70 14 05.82 70 12 2.5.58 70 11 2-2.34 70 13 41.118
70 17 06.00

Hill, chimney.
Poorduek Church. , иииииии

43 37 55.59
43 38 04.79
43 :JS 59.36

I

1

l

1

I

169 47 34 118 41 55
178 J9 24 3.31 21 44

4863.7,
4S:JO.O / 10872.2

3.02 2.8'2 4.68 6. 75 4.82
l.09

Pi<la"ant Hill ........... 1 Mount Imlepeudence.,, 1

7532.71
~129.0

8237.6 11889.5
8491.5 19".28.2

2.58 38 0-2 I White Head ........... 1 207 07 38 ' Rrarnhall's Hill .... , и.. ,, 11415 OR I Brnmhall'sHill ........ 1 187 50 r.a \ Moody.... ... . .. ии и ... 284 29 04 1 White Head............1 170 46 45 Moody................. i

78 41 55
27 08 03

7764.9 1763.2 I

294 1140 'l 5l 34 104 29 57 350 46 ll 260 48 38 165 01 42
309 17 00
33646

I 8464.4 ,
678~.9

3421.8 9-251\.4 1930.9 7124.I

1.94 5.26 J.09 4.21 4.10
~.70

Fort Scammel, chimney of
block.. bouse.

176.'>.7
1

Peak's bland, we& end of
Shirhng's barn.

43 39 20.49 43 37 16.60
43 39 55.91

so 51 59 1 I Brиmhall's Hill ........ I 345 01 33 , \\'bite Head...........
129 JR 44 1633627 28.5 16 07
2'..!6 18 1;J

6599.6 I 113'2.3
4.177.3 9891.7
. 8'lf<ll.1

""i';;,~и.1 1
~

3

W o()(lbl1ry 's Yellow House,

nonh chimney.
l.1ongfellow~s

llmmhall'o Hill......... Moody.................

4786.9 1 10817.3
9001 4

2.'72 6.15
5.15 4.46

ehimney.

House, east

White ffead........... llfoody... ии и и ии . ... ....
Dyer ............. ,.... Green Island...........

105 20 13 46 20 53

7177.1
34";2.5

7848.7
379i .4 11229.9

Knubl>lc at Mt. Mioery....

43 35 4.5.75 43 36 llll.70 43 40 58.87 43 39 07 .95 43 39 07.51
43 39 06.81
43 391184

70 13 20.9'2

134 27 00 234 46 13

314 25 44 54 5tl 31
2:l 26 40
55 21 37

10'269.0
5~8.6

2.16 6.3!!
3.26
5.69
4.~7

Milton, Dyer's honoe......
Westbrook Academy......

70 12 42.60
70 17 26.76
70 15 4~.94
70 15 ~.36

003 2S 36 235 l7 45
337 14 40 338 00 56

White Head. и и . и ии и и .. Green bland,. иии ,.....
Oyer , и и .. и и . и и и и и и и и и . B-rarnhall's Hill .. ~...... Dyer и и и .. и и и и . и и .. и .. White Head...........
Dyer.................. White Hea.d .......... ,

9158.9

5750. 7 10015.9
8.S73. 7 4ttl0.6
4235. 7

157 16 14 158 01 47
169 31 06

7840.1 4408.1
3873.3

2.74
2.41
3.~3

Ponland, Methodiиt church spire on Pinc street.
Portland. tall dark spire on
State street.

349 30 44 276 32 55
351 38 31 276 31 56

96 36 04

617:.!.5
38.15.8 6024.2 3785. 7 5772.9

6750.1
4194.7 6587.9 4139.9 6313.l

171 38 48 96 38 00
175 20 57 96 42 17

2.38 3.74
2.:l.5

Portland, Unitarian church on Park street.
Port.land,ta11darktoweron

70 15 2.5.18
70 15-25.17

355 20 48 276 39 20
355 3'i 05

Drer ии .. и и . и и .. и и .. и и и White Head. и .. и и .. и .. Drer ... ... ии. и иииии иии White Head..... и .. .. и
flyer . и и . и и и и и и . и и . и и .. Moody................. flyer и и и и и и и и и и . и и и и и и и White Helld. ии и и и и и и и и

3.59
2.45

High street.

278 10 52 43 39 24.49 70 15 24.34
356 10 50 206 10 47

175 3'~ 14 YS 13 49
li6 10 59 26 12 17

3940.5 579'J.5
4328.5 6603.S

1309.2 6334.5 4733.5 72:!1. 7 4879.4 6081.6
23'25.2 59.54.2

3.60

Ponland, green spire on
Cw:ico street.

2.68 4.lg 2.77 3.46
l.:i2

Portland. stone ehun:b in Congres;; stre~t.
Portland,darkиpittofthird parish church on Congrer;s street.

43 39 29 .12
43 3!132.99 43 39 31.36 43 3!I 27 .56

70 15 09. 96
70 15 03.15
70 15 00.71

26 22 284 07 58
47 30 50
28.5 44 48
3 03 09

180 26 21 104 10 44

4461.9 5561.2 2126.2 5444. 7
4.>.'l7.3

Brnmhnll's Hill..... и и и и White Head...........
!Iyer .. .. и и и .. и . и и .. и .. White Head...........

227 JO 02 Hl5 47 27
111.1 03 02 и 10.; 25 54 104 24 10 184 01 10
103 3..1 35 184 30 11 10.5 48 20 1"6 2.1 37

3.38
2.82 3.34

Portland,lowtowero(Bapti.st church on .t~ederaJ
etreet.

4961.9
5881. 7

28.5 23 14 70 14 57 .64 284 21 32 4 O! 20

5376.4 5282.() 4424 ..)

Portland, llagotalf.

cust-0m-bouse

White I!ea.d. ииии ии и . ии Dyer..................
White Ile.ad........... Dyer и и .. и и и . и и и .. и и и и и White Head........... Dyer . и и .. .. .. и и . . и и .. и

b776.2 4838.5
5720.8 4745.9

3.28 2.75
3.2.5 2.69

Portland, Lowell and Sen-

43 39 24. 72
43 39 30.14 43 37 21.88

70 14 56.28
70 14 49.01

ter's uansit.
PorUand,eburch on Middle
1tr-eet, naar Willow stre~t.

983 30 58 4 30 2;l
285 45 48 6 23 53

5231.3 4339.8
.'l!l6.0 4.'>21.6

5S94.7

4944. 7
8081.9 3163.6

3.18 2.81 4.59
Ultl

PorUand Light;...........

70 12 08.67

246 25 3.5 !lll7 28 34
68 03 49 324 14 55

Green Iиland........... Wb.ite Head........... Bramhall'и Hill.. и и .. .. White Head...........

66 29 03 27 l!9 15
248 01 0 7 144 15 43

7390.4 2892.9

Little Hog bl.and, llsg

vee.

43 39 55. 07

70 12 18. 72

5662.7
~.a

6192.6 2911.4

3.52 1.65

20*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section I.-Coast of Maine.
Name or etation.

Sketch A.
Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

Fort Preble, flag-<italf......
Mackey 1s Island, flag in tree Payson's Cottage, chimney Great Hog Island, tree witb tall dark top. Long lslan<l W. End, Weit end of C uslling'и barn.

43 38 54.59

.

I

//

0

I

,,

0

I

иI

0

I

//

70 13 18.05 70 13 40.42 70 15 58.0l 70 11 32.36 70 09 53.65
70 09 36.97

36 49 50
275 48 35
14 51 03 19-2 59 40 302 31 47
230 34 53

Dyer ..................

White Head ...........
Dyer ...................

216 48 33 95 50 04
194 !ill 00

Metres. 4242"'5 !?900. 0

Yard.t.

Mili!J.

4639.5 3171.4 6934.9 28.56. 7

2.113 1.80 3.94 1.62 4.77 2.95 2.55 4.35 2.R4 3.34 !l.86 2.54 1).79 4.93 2.32 5.15
1.44 4 47

43 41 14.03
43 40 58.87
4J 40 56.97

Moody................. \Vhite Rend ........ , .. Moody................. Wbite Head ...........
Green Islaud. , ....и....

6341. 5

12 59 [>8 12il 35 07 00 36 46 172 46 19 121 46 56
201 43 31 135 1i6 .54 132 57 19 !.llO l!5 l!5

2612.3
7673. 7

4747.0 4103. 7 700-2.2 4577 .3
538(), 9

8391. 7 5191.2 4487.7 7657.4 .')0()5.6 584.4
50.'13, l 4465. 7

3.52 46 03 301 43 53

43 41 00.83
43 40 :19.14 43 41 20.18

21 44 23 315 .54 1)9 312 55 35 30 26 29
]] 22 42

White Head: .... ...... Green Island ..и.. ... , ..
Green Island., ...и..и..

Littlejohn ................ Crotch Island .............

4602.4

White Head ...........

4083.6 4489. 7 7930.6
3742.3 S:..'96.5

70 06 27.05
70 05 33.36

5'2 53 45

Green Island .иииииииии и 1 191 22 15 White Hea&, ......... 232 50 30
Green Island ..ии , , .и.и.

4909.8
8672.7

Jewel's I~land .. ...........
Little Green Islandи.иииии.

4:J 40 38.17
43 39 57.:.f.l.

33 55 50 65 08 :J'l
37 27 25 71 59 45

Wbite Head ...........
Green Island..ии.ии , .... White Head ...........
Green Island . ..и , ... , ..

213 54 46 245 05 00 217 26 41 251 56 15
337 17 23 75 03 03

40!12.5
~72.8

70 06 03.51 70 10 51.35 70 01 53.16 70 08 12.41
70 l4 46.88 70 OJ 33.37

Ram Island, flag in tree и.ии
Halfway Rock ............

43 3S 13.89

157 17 35 2.55 00 17 59 19 51 116 47 04
114 41 58 33 30 12

White Helld ...........
John's Hill .ии.и Mount lndepend~~~~:::

и

Sl.'l'23.8 7205.3
~14.2

2541.2 7879.5 1139, 7 5702.1 18181.0 27944,0 17193.0 7853.0
7251.5

1042.2

0.65 3.24

43 39 20.30
43 41 59.12

l!:J9 rn 31 2116 35 19 294 34 36 213 28 10

2'i.5,'j3,0

16625.4 1.5721. 9 7181. l
6631.0

10.33 15.88

Long Island ...... , .......
Falmouth, Rev.Mr. Dame's church. Mark.ts Island, stone bea-

Mount Independence ии , Wbite Head ...........
Mount Independence . .. Moody ................ Green Island .ии.. .ии..и Mount Independence ...

9.77 4.46
4.12 1.67 6.19 14.86

43 43 32.48
43 42 31.57

123 52 19 3-09 46 22
48 31 20 103 34 23

:J03 49 29 129 47 26
228 27 30
283 22 24

2699.9
996.'i.6 23922.2

2952.5
108!!~.l

eon.

26160'.6

Primary Statiom.
MOUNT PtJU.SA.KT ииииииии

44 01 35.17
43 46 41.65

70 49 00.88

35~ 16 41.2 f)ssipPe .... ............ 306 12 04.6 Moun~ Independence . .и

172 20 05.9 100 32 59.0
266 37 38.3 289 00 53.7

49137. 7 50109.2
38.'!08. 7 8321)3.2 46921.4

fi3735.5 54797.9

30.53 31.13
23.80 51.70

C.Af'E 8111.t.LL иииииииииииии

69 50 22.71 70 04 22.34 70 20 11.91 69 08 43.54

86 57 21.4 Mount Independence . .. 109 41 33.3 Mount Fleasaut ии..ии..

41893.2 00988.6 51311.B
66691.4

8BllAT'l'18 ииии ииииииииииии

44 OB 36.37 44 43 40.24 44 12 43.97

24 31 21.6 Mount Independence . .. 77 57 08.2 Mount Pleasant ......... 359 03 40.l Mount Independence.-.. 26 19 26.9 1\Iount Pleasant ии.ии : .. 81 48 41.6 Mount Pleasant ииииииии 49 21 00.3 Cape Small ............

204 21 17 .3 257 26 03.6

29.16
37.89

60985.1

Mouitt BLua .............
RJ.OGED MOUNTJ.11' и~-. иии

179 04 3.5.1 107661.2 2(15 69 16.7 86818.1

117735.0 94941.7 148023.3 80.543.1

66.90
53.95

~

: ~U\ i~;:i:~

84.10 45.76

Section II.-Hudson River.
Name or station.

Sketch B.
Back llZimntll./ Diotance. Distance. Dbltance.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To иtalion-

i
Romm HILL ............ . Btl"M'llltlf!LK .......... , ..

4~ ~ 1~.00 I
41 06 33.91
40 57 59.97 41 02 54.68 41 07 24.81

I

ii

73 40 05.79

'

1

11

и

'

,

,,

73 48 18.96
73 50 13.95

"и~;~и~;и~ии и~:и~~l~:::::::::::: ииии~и~и~~-и ;;~:~и ~~~;:~и
189 36 16
223 07 37 23.5 20 40

и-------- - - I

.

Mmes.

.

y....a..

Miles. 7.17

Didery иииииииииииииииии.и
Pierlllont ....и. иииии .ии..и

Buttermilk.... .... .. ..
Round Hill.............

9 :r; 32
43 14 16

16078.4 20756.5 11903.1
11546. 7

1751l:l.9 22698.7 13016.9
12627. l

g,99 12.89

и73 55 18.66

ll21 54 15

Buttermilk. ........... Didery ................

55 25 16 141 57 35 ISS 48 39 161 32 32
~

7.89

7.17

Hook Mounlai.11 иииииииииии
Ryder ....................

73 54 23.llO.

8 49 15 341 29 48 348 20 11 46 51 30

Picl'!Dont ии.. и.и ., ииии.и Didery ................
Buttermllk ............ Hook Mountain ииииииии

8431.7 1S369.9 8159,7 93e6.0

9220. 7 20088.8
89!!3.2

11.n

5.U

41

rn :'61.99

73 49 29.67

res 20 sa
4817

5.07

10264.3

5.e3

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*21

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section 11.-Hudson Rfrer.
Name or :Htation.
иLatitude. Longitude.
Azimuth.

Sketch B.

,. To station-

I
I
!

Back azimuth.\ Diиtance. Distance. jDU.tance.
Jards.

~---------1--~---1------r----~f---------,f------~
High Tor.................
Dick.er1on .......... ...ии..

I

llfiCes.

41 ll 13.00 41 15 29.68

73 57 36.85 73 51 42.53

273 04 07 3'27 19 11
14 04 35 46 13 O;J
314 :18 04 347 11 5'l

Ryder ................. Hook :Wountain ........
I!OQk Mountain........ High Tor..............

93 09 28 H7 21 19 194 02 49
2':l6 09 10

11369.5 8.161.0 15418.1 11436.0
20:128.9

1243:1.3 9143.3 i 16ffi0.8 12506.1
222.11.l

7.06 5.19
9.58 7.10
12.63 8. '72

Bear Mount и .' .......... ..
Tompkins' Hill . и......и..
Crow's Nest и.ииии , ии ,,,.,

41 18 36.59 41 23 45.42
41 24 28. 74 41 30 03.54

73 59 50.28
73 49 01.57

Ryder .............. ..
High Tor ............ ..

134 45 43 167 13 20 193 44 27
237 39 22
95 43 06

140:ll.2
15i42.6 178:35.2
13.'i:l9.3

15344.l
1721.5.6 1!1504.l

13 46 13 57 46 30
275 ll6 42

Dickerson., ............. . Bear llfount ........... .
Tornpkins' Hill ....и ии.. Bear Mount. ии.и..и.ии.

9.i8

11.08
8.41 6.82 7.27 8.77 5.67 0.42 6.46 4.25 3.43 3.57 4.35 6.02
3.04 7.6'J

73 58 11.67
73 54 44.24

8 21 28

188 20 42 208 03 29 H5 44 J7

10979.l

14B00.2 12000.4 12;800,9 1543!!.6 9994.8 734-.8
11372.6

Bald Hill ............... .. Hook Mount, (2) ......... . Kieckout ............... .. Long Hill ............... ..
Auser .и.. .................

28 06 06

325 40 50

Crow's N es:t ...... ~ ... . Tompkins' Hill ......и..
Ruttennilk ............ . Hook Mow1twJt ииииииии

11705.6 14117.6 9139.6 671 9 10399.5 6848.9
5528.8 57S8. 7

41 07 12.84

73 54 47.36
73 50 22.16 73 50 39. 72

277 30 49
236 39 10

97 35 04 66 39 26 6 45 48
304 44 53

41 05 18.17
41 08 24.40 41 10 28.24 41 13 31.80

186 45 1:1 124 47 31 70 36 0"2

Ryder ................ . Hook Mountain и... , .. ,

7489.8

355 5.'> 07

Hook Mountain .и...... I Kieckout ....... ...... .
Hook Mouniain-. ..... . Kieckout ии... ..........

250 3335 175 55 18 216 05 59 171 07 31 181 42 08 249 31 3'J lW 3923 232 39 21 213 43 54 142 11 30 178 l:l 16 165 06 40
79 68
2{) 4~

6046.l
6'297 .6
76.'>9.5

73

st' 26.23

36 07 56 351 06 48
l 42 12 69 36 57

7004.l 9680. 1
49(]1. 1 12265,8

1058.'i.9

BaJdMount ............ .. Salt Hill ................. . Spitzenberg.............. , Dunderberg..... , ......... Smith ................... .. Bing Sing, State-honee иии. Bartlett.................. .
BarUett's Houe-e Turret . ..

73 49 23.42

Rydf"T ................. .
High Tor ............ ..

5.1.'>9. 7 13413.5
15491.4 11783.8
9892.3 112611.2

41 14 44.75 41 1.5 16.84 41 17 16.30
41 04 40.91

73 51 28.89 73 54 01.06
73 57 M.81 73 54 43.52 73 51 38.64 73 51 47.63 73 51 39.50 73 53
~.64

16 41 18 52 43 23
33 46 16

Hook Mountain ...и.... High Tor ............ ..
High Tor ............ ..

14165.9 10775.5 9045.9
l~.o

8.80

6.1>9
5.62 6.40

3-22 08 30

Ryder ............... ..
High Tor ............. . Hook Mountain, ....и..

358 13 00 345 04 28 259 18 07 248 44 22 114 16 56 186 55 31

11211.9
18880.6
6~7.3

12261.0
20641.3

6.96
I I. 73

Kieckout .ии.. , ........ . Buttermilk .......... ..

59 35

6788.1
10527 .4

00:16.6

3.8:. 5.98

41 09 11.07
41 00 39.69 41

High Tor ............ .. Auser ................. . Smith ............... .. Book Mountain ....... .
llook Mountain,,, ....... Kieckout и..и.и........

204 13 00 6 55 39 2'.!8 13 24 290 57 14
2&! 21 31 145 J7 15

9157,3 23!17. 7

10014.2 262::2.1

5.f.9 1.49
3.42
2.41

48 15 20
110 58 57

5501.2
3888.0 4()-26.2
31~.2

oe

43.66

108 23 19 325 36 24
2.56 21 10 3:fl 47 05
211 .52 19

I

6016.0
42..-'ll-8

4402.9

Teller's Point. .......и..и , Green'и Wharf ......... ..
Tallman'o Wharf.........

41 10 04.33

Auser ..............и..
иKieck:out .............. .
Allfler .и ,,,,,, и.иииии.и

76 22 36 152 49 1:1 31 54 19

:1127.6 9924.0

3494.21 3420.3 10852.6
8829. 7

2.50 J.98

1.94

6.16 5.02 3.95 5.80 3,70
4.-03 4.21

41 06 45.98 41 06 00.02
41 07 36.76 41 0801.79

73 54 29.16

295 08 54

Kieckout. ............ ..
Au~er .и..и..иии иииииии

115 11 36
27 38 33 102 30 44 35 31 21
129 03 38 39 07 21

8074.2 6367.9 9337.7 5969.l 6497,7 6786.8 5821.4 7224.5
503:1.1

6963.7 10211.4 6(;27.6

73 54 31.~l
73 54 08,10

207 36 31 282 28 00

Kieckout ............ ..
Auter .ииии.ии.........

Hook Mountain, palnted triangle. Lower Rookland., ииииииии
Upper ltoeklo.nd ииии.ииии.

215 29 35
309 01 10

Kieckout ............. .
Au~er

7105. 7
7421.9

73 54 03.74
73 54 45.96

219 05 37 314 17 35

................. .

6:!66. l

Kieckout ............ ..
Auaer . ........ииии.и.и Kieckout. .и... .ии......
Au'l!ler иииииииииииии ииии Kieckout .... .......... .

134 20 01 67 41 08 141 rn 01
47 34 21 138 45 15 24 37 00 00 21 33 29 50 51 109 04 ro 29 47 01 97 29 20
33 37 36

7900.5
5."i04.1 10737 .6 5668.9 882.>. l
11461.8 tHlO.l
9518.5

3.62 4.49 3.13 6.10 3.22 5.@
6.~l

41 09 S!6J!3 '11 08 34.82
41 05 19.29

247 38 57
321 10 13

9818.8

Bannore Wharf.иииииииии.
L<>Wer Nyac Landing.....
Wllliam8on'и Wharf......

73 M 10.33 73 54 33.33
73 54 31.91 73 M 59.94

227 :fl 3.3 318 42 45 204 35 03 270 18 46 209 48 49 289 02 06

5183.8 8070.0
10481.1 5861.6 8704. 1 6165.7 10039.2 6537. 7
8257 .4 6637.0

Auser ................. . Kieckeut.............. .

3.64

41 06 23.44
41

Auser .........ии.и.и.. Kieckout ии.и..и....и. .. Auser ................. .. Kieekout ....и.........
Auser .................. . KieckouL ............ ..

Tanman ................ ..
Nyac, Jll'W!h'a houe ииииии

o:;

45.11

209 44 41 277 l!6 18

6742.6 10978.6 7149.4

I I

5.41

3.83
6.23 4.06
5.13 4.12 4.05

41 06 45.29
41 08 35.Bil

73 54 42.25

213 35 27
293 lH ;l()

113 54 21 317 58 09

9030.0 7258.0
7136.3

Fiteb .. hoWIO ......

73 54 29.48

138 00 13 230 54 ID

Hiab Tor ............. .
A.._ ................ .

50 S6

()2

6525. 7 5502.0

60lti.6

3.4.11

22*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPlliCAL POSITIONS.

Section II.-Hudson River.

Sketch B.
1

_ _N_am_c_o_r_иta-ti_o_n_.__ ,__L_и_ti_.t_u_dи_и_!Jl_L_o_n-g1-и1u_d_и_и-l--A..,.z_i_m_n_th_._l---T-o_и_ta_ti_иo_n_----l-B-ac_k_a-zim_n_th_._ _D_iи_t_an_c_c_. _D_is_tan_и_e_. -D-is-tan_c_e. 1 0 "' t f'I 11 t 11 I 11 M1~tres. f Ya-rds. Miles. / 73 57 59.85 308 40 N Auscr.......... .... ... . 128 44 43 11750.3 12849.B 7;30 Stony Point Light-house ии 41 14 ~.46 354 52 Oil High Tor .............. ! 174 52 23 5991.5 6552.l 3.72

I

Smith'и Wllarf............ ] 41 05 22. 34
Underhill'и House.........
Chadeavoyne ... .......... .

73 54 32.48

I

~4 4\! 05 271 14 1:J

Auиer ................. Kieckout.. ии .. .. .. и .. и

i

I

~4 44 07 91 16 :;s

10387.3
5843.l

11:l59.2

6:J8~.8

6.45

3,63 1.91 6.24
6,&2

41 10 09.13 41 II

73 53 36.09
73 48 4.1.:13
73 46 59.6.1

258 58 17 333 14 09
6~ 51 43 46 12 41

Auиer .................. 1 Kieckout .... .... ..... и Au;er...... .......... Hook Mountain........
Kieckout. ....... ..... и Ryder. и и .. .. .. .. и и и .. и Hook !\fountain........ Kieckout. ............. ,

78 59 43 153 16 17
226 08 57

3083.4 10050.1
10984.8
~198.0

3371-.9 10990.5
12012.7 8965.1 5510 .2

:n.37

242 49 56

426o.9 f

4665.l

2.65

t;arles ии .ии..и...ии..и....

41 08 55.39
41 0-2 31.68
41 0'2 26. 99 41 0'2 27.18 41 08 56.66

35 12 18 136 03 27

215 10 05 316 01 48
3.52 01 39 40 2:1 16
1 38 56 48 09 58

5038. 7 9129.6 6739.2 9189.9 7913.3 9182.6 7863.1
10~140.5

5.09 3 .13
5,67 4.18
5,71

Piermont Pier ........... ..
Piermont Engine House,
large cup<ila.

73 53 29.08

mo oo

172 O"J 15 13

991:13.9 7369.8 10049.B 8653.8 10041.8 8598.9 7690.4 11526.8

73 54 34.62 73 54 31.96
74 01 38.67 73 51 50.48 73 51

181 38 49
2-28 07 12

Hook Mountain ........ K1eckout .............. !

!

4.91
5.70 4.88

PJermont Engine
emall cupola.

House,

181 15 36 227 50 57 233 14 55 285 J:l 09
55 59 l~ l:i;J 09 58 44 07 45 103 18 50
36 211 11 8-0 39 42

Cliurcb Spire ии

Railroad, (00)...... .. и ... , 41 06 09,31
Railroad, (27) ....... , .... .

I

Hook Mountain ........ ! Kieckout. ............. ! . I High Tor ............ Hook Mountain ...... ,.

"I
и

l 15 42 47 53 41

53 l i 34 105 37 5(L
235 57 19 303 08 17

7032 .4

4.37 6.55

f:l;uiith . и..и...и.ии..и Ho~k .Mountain .. .......

ииI

!

4872.5 4258.:J

5328.4 4656.6
640J.0
404~.3

3.03 2.64
3,64

41 06 57.20

48.851

Smith ................. 1 Uook Mountain........
Smith .. и .. .. и .. и и .. .. и Uook Mountain........
Smith .....и..ии.и.и.и. Hook Mountain .... , ... .

1

224 05 50 2<l3 l7 08
216 18 14 260 37 ~ 232 35 44 297 49 38 24 54 01
111 07 04

58.%.1 370!.9
7<>48. 7 3139.8

2.30
4.36 2.32
3.21 2.55
3.08 4.39
5.2.~

Railroad, (28) ............ .
Webb's '\Tharf .... , и и. , , .

41 07 44.51
41 06 2'.l.62
41 08 47.33

7600.4 4089. 7
5649.9 4491.6
5416.Q

73 51 47 .61

52 37 40 ll7 51 21 204 53 02 291 03 58
188 43 rn 2;J7 13 12
l~ 03 33 214 15 01

5166.5 4107 .3
495:3.4 7073.6

Rockland Court House., . .

73 59 06.30 73 55 18.22
73 51 13.66 73 57 20.91 73 58 2.1.r>.5 73 ;.:i 4-1.62 74 00 23.52 73 56 45.05 73 55 49.57

High Tor ............. . Rook Muuutain, и.и , ..

7735.5
9240.3

I. . ord's Pagoda , , . , , ии... , .
Tarryto\Vn
ClljK>Ja.

410254.01

Hook Mnuntain .. ..... . Kieckont .. , .....и.....
Hook Mountain.... и .. Kicckol.lt..............
Diekenon ...... .... , . . .
Ryder. и и и .. и .. и и и .. .. и

8 43 48 57 16 27

8449.6 8217.9
719'.!.8 2136.3

e986.8 7865.8
233ti.2

5',10 4.47 1.31?
6.B~

Schoolhouse.

41 04 20.94
41 11 22.02

322 01 28 34 15 35
45 55 .35
94 42 29

De Noyelle........... ...

~ !ll 52

10975.1
llOli .6

J!l00-2.0
12048.5

274 37 19

6.84 6.17 2.79 3.23
4.51

Knapp..................
Colleberg, East.......... Co!leberg, Weat.... ...... Roye Hook...............

41 13 39.83 41 13 08.4.1 41 13 43.62 41 17 57.21

250 01 41 341 01 21

Dickerson.............. De Noyelle.. ... .. ... ии и Oickerson .. и .. ии .. .. ... liyder. .. .. и и .. и .. .. и .. Dickenon .. и .. .. .. .. и . De Noyelle....... .... .. Oickerson ........... .. High Tor ............. . High Tor ............ .. Roye Hrn,k .......... ..

70 06 05 161 0'2 -0-2 33 08 39 125 08 M 74 57 :D 135 46 32
122 54 5l 185 31 00 192 01 18 300 15 14

9934.a 4495.3 5201.7
726~.3

10864.1 49l5.9 568S.4 7941.8

213 07 18 3il5 06 07 2.54 51 48 315 44 32 302 51 32 5 31 34 12 02 29 120 15 51 260 26 32

12563. l 6097.0
12.S27.l

13738.6 6667.5

7.80 3.78
5.21 7.78
7.44 0.93

8383.1,.

9167.5 1369!1.3
13100.l 1634.0

Battle Point. ............. !, 41 17 32.80
i

i

11979.2 1494.2

Caldwen ................. : 41

n

23.04

73 57 06.49
73 57 05.23 73 56 00.61
73 55 07 .07

I
Kidd'и Humbug .иииииииии. i
41 17 10.19

205 19 35
197 .56 16

Battle Point.... ..и..и.. RoiиeHook ........... ..
RoyeHook ............ .

80 97 23 25 19 50
17 56 29 68 23 43

1814.8
1166.!

1984.6 1275.2 166'7.0 2070.6 1894.6 1842.6
3016.8 2018.6

1.12
0.72

248 22 53
13 46 125 57 15
ll.5 12 46 48 38 19 275 17 51
254 U8 33 319 03 48
19~

Battle Point. и. , и.иии...
Battle Point .и....ииии ,, Kidd's Humbug ...... ..

1524.4 1893.4
1732.5 1684.9

0.94

1.17
l.08 1.04 1.71 l.14

Johnny Lent .............. 1 41 l6 38.13

l:J 13 fJ7 305 56 37

Peckaltill Spireии '. ......... j 41 17 17 .67
Smoky Hollow .......... .

Kidd'и Hnmbug ...... ..

Johnny Lent ......... ..
Battle P-0int .и.. ..... , , . Roye Hook ........... .

265 11 29 228 37 41 95 19 15

2758.7 1845.9 2983.2
1746.l 2476.0 2272.6 13908. l

41 17 41.75

73 5i 57 ,2.')

74 09 22
139 04 34 lll 04 00 13'.! 40 SS 201 47 19

3'J62.3 1909.5
2707. 7
2485.~

1.85
l.08

Telegraph ............... .

41 18 23.68
41
~s

73 58 16.22

291 03 00

Caldwell .............. . Roye Hook .......... ..

l.54 1.41 8.64 5.41

South Beacon ....... ~ ... .

00.81

72 56 22.35
73 57 03.15

312 35 46 21 48 50

Tompkin5;' Hill и... ,,,, Crow's Ne~t . ......... .
Crow's Nest . ....... , .. .

6706.9
4016.4 12106.1

15009.5 9521.6

Bull Hm ................ ..

41 26 15.77

3l 43 30 1!92 28 54

Tompl<iDs' Hill иииииииии

214 42 25 llil 34 13

4392.2

13238.9

ll.49 7.lill

OF THE UNITED STATES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*23

UNITED STATES COAST SURYEY.-GEOGRAPIIICAL l'OSITIONS.

Section IL-Hudson River.
Name or station.

Sketch B.

I
I

I
Latitude.
I, __ L_o_n_g-it_u_dи_и_ I

'
Aziinuth.

!

!
1

I

To station-

iBack azimuth. ( DiHance. 1Distance. !nistauce.

1----l 73 58 38 24 i
I
I'

Bare Rock ............... 1 41 Z-2 07.20 l
Denning .................
!log's Back ....... , иииии , и

l

l
;

---------,~

'

j

и

j

2.Ji 12 Hi 178 57 H:I 1Zl 0-2 fr2

! Tompkin~'
()rowи:;

I

! I I 1---ии-----;--77 18 37 358 54 18
301 59 48
J:ri:-\~J.9 I 150:21.2 ! 4J66.9 \ 4775.5 j
10.~2.2
}lfrfn<:. \ rarJ<:. !

H1l1......... I Neht. .......... !

Milci:. B.:hl 2.71
4. j2 6.56 6.Gl 6.ad

!
1

412218.20 ( 73 54 04.49 !
/ J

49 :ru 17

j Crow\-i Ne::;t ...........
; BearMount............

2'29

3.')

28

f~~~.21
1

118~~.и~ !
..Jll"

v

41 20 51 13'
" . II

73 .52 48 86
.

1
1

Anthony's Nose иииииииииии
Stevance ииииииии.иии.ии.и

411904.10

73 58 IU!.5

i i
l

6i 05 0.') 129 20 4.J

j J\f'ar Mount ........... ,:'
)
1'

2'1.5 45 47 306 o~ 30

41 16 20.69 : 73 53 52.06 I

297 3-2 4:1
206 11 Ot!

ITompkinи' Hill ......... ! Dickerson ............ и I D;ckermn .............
\ T<>m11kmsin111 ......... !

Crow~s N<:H .......... ,

247 00 27 309 16 5~

10041.4 10;195.0

!

.55 SI i>I 126 12 47

15444.0 t ll203 .6 12251. 9 3.199.9 I
l.J:J90.6

I lfi~~9.I
j

Ufi37 .l ! llJ.56.4

117 34 08
26 14 2U

16721.3

371~.0

2.11 9.50
5.77 ~. 77

Jacob'и Hill .... , .......... j 41 18 03.35 Gouverneur .............. 11 2a 37.44

I I

1 I

73 .53 13.55

j
f
\

96 22 3!J 147 20 59

j BC'ar

Mount,,,,,nии"и1 i'Crow'иN<иst. ...........
1

~~' II~и~
vи
~

9284,B

14124.1

I

I

101.3'.l.6

15445.7

и3 r,s 51.ss

1, 1 fn~ 1 g II ~~~~~0N;:; ........... ~1 W ~g
h ............ )

!~~~:~ j' ~~~~:~

2.9fi 2.6'1 2.71 l. 75 ]. 95 2.44

Plum Bush .............. ..1 41 25 08.661 73 55 41.43
Sugar Loaf......... , ...... \ 41 21 33.32
Alarru Post ............... , 41 20 4').[)-2

73 4

~

UV

23 42

I <:'row's Nest ........... /
\

Gouverneur ...........

"I

2.i3 3.> 24
184 55 35

24~и4~
v.:;.

ии 7 / 3 1

l
j

~~~

ии 9

6

73 56 31.28 \

!
1

100 30 42 193 26 41
1":'4 O;'i 31

: J.!ate Rock ииии... ииииии! Gouverneur.,.,. , ии. , и 1
1 и >'<ugar Loaf l
>.,;

289 29 JS 13 27 07
3[J4 0.5 2и1

31~0.0 1
3936 .4
2511!'.3 I

342L9 4304. 'i
2786,8

'i3 58

W.951

240 59 44
8 42 36 277 O!) 43 34,' 04 43 19и1 40 01

Rare Rock .... ,,, ...... !
.............. )

'

61 01 01
lt-!l 42 26 2472004 97 10 16

3073 .8

I
1

3:361 .4
2689.9 31!37.U

1..58 I. 91

:~::и:~~:~:.и.и.и.и.-.и.::::::I
Buttennilk Falls .и....ии , и

41 2'2 52.14 41 2-2 56.86
41 21 52.13

73 56 IO 25' .. I 73 57 05.01
.

I
f

Suaar Loaf. ........... 1

2459.7
3600.1

672138 IBareRock ..............

i

1.52 2.24
0. 72

I

73 f,7 27.50 73 57 26.91
73 57 06.40

I f
i

I

293 56 05
66 o ~. 22 139 19
82 21 08

I

I Hugar Loaf............ 1

Belcher. ............... !
RlockHou$.e,.,,, ...... J Hugar Loaf............
Bare Rock .............

163 05 06
14 40 Hi

1165.I 1 , 2Gn3.3

!
'

ll3 56 42
2 46 ~~ 3 19 , 6 -~
::!62 20 15 316 05 08
333 03 56

206~.9
1~26.9

I
1

1274.l
2\H5,3

1.67
l.2R 0.88

i;!.Q!')7,0

1129.61

15&1.4
1669.8 276'3.7
2066.1 3417 .9
394~.9

Cows' Jlook ............. .

41 21 05.14

0

I Alarm

PQиt ............ 1
......

'.!░

2331.8

Dennina-'s Landing ..и.ии.. ( 41 20 53. !8
McHenry North ......... .\

I I

136 56 09
211 16 29

1Alarl!l Pfl-$.t......

I Bare Rock ............. 1 1

1&"9.:l 1

312.'i.4 t
:~05.5 1' 2"38.<l I

1.17 1.91

41 20 2il.98
41 20 Oll.37

735727.99
73 57 49.54 73 58 49.41

1530443 fBareRock ............. J

I McHenry South ........ ..
Fort Montgome-.y ........ .
High land Hill ............ .

18 ugar Loaf, ...........

2.24
1.57

31 17 07
3-26 31 47 3-2 (;B 02
12 15 52 52 01 ao
266 21 02 346 00 43

2776 .4 1721.8 36.'"Jj, 7
2fik8.R
118~.7

Poet ............ 1 . 212 57 10 ) Sugar Loaf, .... , .......

146 3'2 12

I Alarm

!

;g~:i:ii
2458. 7

-.. ., i

I
I

0.98
2.0<l
] .и!)2

41 19 27.14 41 19 29.38 41 20 31.24

j Alann Post ............ i 23'2 00 50 McHenry South .. ,, .... и,/
lW 15 37
86 21 33 166 26 59

73 58 02. 76
73 57 56.58

Frants .................. .

fill() 57 13 ! McHenry North ......... i 225 59 01 j Sugar Loar.......... , и \

I

1<66.2
1w; .o

I rna1.5
I
2624.9 778.2 3014.f>

1.-09

Fort MnntgomБory ..и... i Alarm Pu-st ........... и

j

0.67

24(I0.3 i

1.4!1
0.44

110 57 ~ 45 59 57
2U9 47 10 30 10 00 iM 12 54

711.61 2756.6
304:1.s 3677

W""I Point Observatory1 41 23 25.59 Dome. i
-~'ort

73 57 00.9R
73 57 32.64

129 48 17 210 09 07
2.58 ll 47 3J6 52 37

I c , N es t ............ I\ I Phun llush ............ '!
_,row~

.21

I

1.71

332g_r, 4021.3
2614 .B 3<J7l .l
1613 .4

1.89
2.28 1.49 2.26

Putnam.............

41 23 21.59 41 24 01. 42 41 23 19. 74

G<luverneur ............ II Sugar Loaf..... , ии , иии..

W a mer 's Landing... и .. .. Philip'и Landing..........

73 56 46.83
73 56 28.811 73 56 51.12

:JOO 0.5 13 355 28 33
53 21 15 124 36 35
~l 12 59 353 11 06

Gonvernenr и...ии.и.и Sugar Loaf ............ .
Bare lloek ............ Crow's Nest ...... n и и

иI иIJ

156

(>3

18

2391.1 3631 3 I

120 OS 49 175 28 43 233 19 49
304 35 07

1475.3 II 4582.4
3748 .3 3748.5

5011.2

0.91 2.85 2.33 2.3:J
0.85

4099.0
4099.3 l.'i05.l 4248.9
2015 .R 4277 .2

KO!ciuszko's Monument..

41 ru 38.39
41 23 36 ,50 41 23 42.11

Gouverneur. и и . . . и..и. 1 Sugar Loafиии..иииииии. j

91 13 3R 173 11 19

1376.3
38ti5.3

2.41
l.14
!l.43 0.77

West Point F1ag..ta1f.. ...
West P,cjntLantern.......

73 57 11.22 73 56 44.81

269 ll5 27 Z46 16 09

Gouverneur .......ии.. Sugar Loaf ии.иииии.ии.

89 06 19 166 16 36
97 32 38

1843.3
;J9!1.~

277 3-l 03 209 01 50
310 52 13 211 48 37

GouvE>rneur иии.ии.. : .. Plum Bush........... ..
G<>uvemeur..... ..... . f'luro Bush ............. и GouveTneur ....... H.. Plum !lush............. Stony Point........ и .. и

1240.2

29 02 33
130 52 41 31 49 12

:JWJ.3
129.1.6

13.">6.2 3316.0 1414.6 253!.8

l.SS
0.80

Warner .................. ! 41 24 04.88

73 56 83.99
73 57 47 .78

2315.2
43.58. l
~7.l

1.44
2.70

Stony Feint...............
11.ose ...... ...............

41 25 28.55
41 24 45.95

321 50 51 281 4tl 13

141 52 08 JOI 49 37 8 41 34 77 25 08

4765.9 3277 .5 14"3.7 3512.7

l.W
0.82

73 57 56.43

188 41 29

ll57 113 38

Plum Bush............

1329.3 3212.1

1.99

24*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSffiONS.

Section IL-Hudson River.
Na.me or statfon.

Sketch B.
Back azimuth.I Dist:l.Jlce. Distance. Distance.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

Constitution Island ........ Cold Spring Spire иииииии , и

' 21. " 73 41 24
41 25 02.31

' 16.12 73 57
73 57 08.26

0

"

0

160 2'2 32

' "

236 37 ro 8 18 <l-2 264 26 47

Stony Point, и..и....... Plum Bus!L ............
Constitution Island .и. ,.: Plum .Bush ............ ,

' 11 340 22 563852
188 17 57 81 27 44

0

" I

I MetTФи )
2188.6 2632. 7
2<f25.5

rant.... 239a.4 28i9.l

Miles. l.a6 l.M

I
I
I ,
I

1265.21
I

1883.6
2--:215.0

0.78
l.~

Section IIL-Chesapeake Bay.
?fa.me or station.

Sketch

c.
azimuth. Distance. Distanee. Distance.

I I
I

Latitude.

I

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

JBack

WoLrrllA.P иииииииии иииии. j 37 24 00. 74
RooEMAJil' ............... /
NEW POt!fT COMFORT иииии

76 14 24.32 76 00 29.21 76 16 20.M 76 15 53.95 75 59 08.61 76 01 19.34
75 5; 53.92

37 19 54.83 37 18 00.82 37 05 08.61 37 10 35.35

............... ......................... ииииииииииииии1ииииииииии '
1!14 '1:7 27 261 23 17 183 36 50 219 46 15 67 59 31 137 49 26 129 24 12 186 37 OB 16.1 02 46 13 09 35 291 34 42 236 26 47 20 58 01 89 3a 11 128 51 54 101 M 45 356 02 39 94 23 32 117 57 46
88 311 39

иииииииии ииииииииииииии ииииииииииииииииииииииии ..... :.. '. ..' . .. .. ~~'.~"::. ииииииииии ...........
O

I

11

____ ------Yards.

Mila.

[

..........

Wolftrap .............. Roeemary .ии ............
Wolftrap ............... Rosemary ...............

14 28 38 81 3'i .54
3 37 44
a9 "5 34

114.57.5 2:Jlj86.2 34967 .2 35561.6
26777 .8

12529.6
~90'2.5

7.12 14.72 21.73 22.11
16.64 20.84

BACK RIVER POINT ииииии.

382.19.1 38911.0
29"283.4

CosTJN и.ии.иииииииииииии

1
CAI"B HIUCRY WEST ...... ,i

Back River Point. ..... . Wolftrap ..............

247 49 25 317 40 11 309 15 25 6 38 27
343 02 00

33540.6 27951.6 27974.0 6317 .2 22329.5

36679.0 30007.0 ao591.5 . 6908.3 24418.9
2&5513.8

36

5.)

33.88

Back River Point..,,,, .
Costin .и..и......и.ии.. Costin .................

17.37 17.38
3.!l'l l:l.87

CAPE CHиRLES .и

........

37 07 19.32 37 00 46.60 37 24 07.7G 37 15 27 .49 37 17 06.11 37 18 19.10 37 12 27 .44 37 06 06.49 37 07 47.69 37 07 50.95 37 06 28.76 37 31 00.36 37 32 23.06 37 32 43.38
I

Cape Henry West ииии..
Cape Henry West ........ co~tin ..... ..............
Rosemary .и иииииииииии.

19:1 01

m

OLD POINT COMTORT ииииии

76 17 40.69 75 SS 27.83 76 01 04.87 76 01 13.42 76 00 55.88
76 00 34.87

lll 44 32 56 37 57 200 56 47 269 23 30 3-08 43 49 281 45 30
176 02 44 274 14 25

26115.2 32914.3
8349.1 23523.0
25249.9 23047.0

35994.1 9130.3 25724.0 27612.5 25203.5
3332.4 24502:7
l!-1615.5

16.23 20.45
5.19

Upshur .... .ии.......и...

Wolftrap ..............

14.62 15.69 14.32 1.89 13.00 13.99 14.15 16.41 2.52 12.38 5.18 16.17 16.39 16.29. 16.51

Taze\\rell .................... ,

Wolftrap .............. New Point Comfort и...

Cherry Stone .............
Cht-rry Grove ..... ........

Tazewell .............. New Point Comfort ....
Wolftrap ..............
New Point Comfort ии..

3047.3 22406.2 22509.3 22778.3 0040.5. 7 4057 .5 19930.4 8334.9 26017.0
26383.7

297 49 35 268 30 18

24909. 7 28876.5 4437.2 21795.3 9114.8
28451.4

Painted Tree .... , ........
Fisbennan's Island ..и.....
SmiU1'e Island Light-house Smith's Island EasL ...и.. .

:m

;,g 15 50

2-J

oo

Back River ............. Costin .................

= 06 35 148 23 21
191 55 18 353 52 31 200 25 03 210 49 48 206 48 38 2ll llll2
262 45 vs 005 16 (JO

75 SS 32.59 75 52 12.14 75 52 01.95 75 54 53.31 76 17 26.91 76 19 23.83 76 18 :lil.99 76 19 43.35 76 18 24.66
16 20 07.69

11 56 58 173 52 53
26
~

Cape Henry West ииииии Costin ................. Cape Henry East .. , . . . Cape Henry West ...... Cape Henry Eиot .иииии. Cape Henry West ииии.и
Fitl-herman 's bland .ии.. Cape Henry West иииии ,

45

30 55 18 26 53 24 31 16 38 82 47 20 25 19 Ml 189 33 28 260 59 56 210 IO 48 311 36 02 332 56 15 63 20 a9 200 31 58 246 48 15

28802.4 28673.1 !lOOi>.5.6 51167 .5 24416. 7 11673.5 34479.4

1!6219. 7 00569.5

Smith's Island иwest ...... Cherry Point .............. Stove Point .............. Brick llouee Tract ........

22:127 .6

5456.9

:l.39 13.87 6.83
19.59

Windmm Po-int ...иии.. SODdyPoint ...........

9 34 81 12

!ii

10674. 7 31529.2

Windmill :P<>int и.ииии. Cheny Point. ......... , Cherry Point........... Stove Poiat ии.... ...и.. Brick Houoe Tract ..... Cheny Point ...........
Burton ...........ии... Cherry Point ...........

30 12 43 131 37 13 152 56 SS
243 llO 28

9'.129 .0 3839.1
3006.2 l!l96.2 4923.8 3644.8 2304.8 3041.4

10092.6 иU98.3
3899.9 1521i.8 5384.5 398:;.8
~.5
~:Jlti.O

5.73 2.39

2.22 0.87

Burton ...................
N arrow's Point ............

37 30 13.81

20 32 -41 66 49 38 303 00 17 27 47 39

3.06
2.27

37 29 33.08 37 32 36.84

123 01 05 !I07 47 03
26.'i QI 36 352 16 56

I.43 1.89
1.45 2.77

Ced01De11 ................

Briek Houoe Tract ..... Burton ................

85 (12 34 172 17 11

2332.9 4449.1

25.'il.2 4865.4

Mo/dack Bay.

Hog l8lancl . и ... и и .. и и и и и.

37 la 47. 75

16 ~ +4.69

246 31 31 332 4.5 09

New Point Comll>rt и.ии Back River Poi!llиииииии

66 35 24 1.50! 49 17

10310.5 21153.8

il42!16. 7

11275.3

6.41 13.67

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 18G3.

*25

UNITED STATES CO.A.ST SURVEY.-GEOGRA.PffiCAL POSITIONS.

Section III.-Chesapeake Bay.
Name o-r station.

Sketch C.
Baek azimuth. Distance. Distance. !Diatance.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azim 11th.

To station-

I

Rock Point ...............
White's Point и.ии , ии.и...

37 18 36. 77 37 22 03.42 37 21 5"2.62 37 22 56.94 37 20 36.82 37 22 04.10 37 21 10.84 37 21 41.21 37 22 33.07 37 24 28.01 37 19 41.32

.

I

II

.
76

II

76 23 06.84 76 20 56. 79

354 01 17 317 42 35 26 41 31 103 07 40 37 30 09 3 13 58
300 58 48
337 23 05

276 17 21

.'

"

New Point Comfort .... Hog Islandии.ии.иииииии
New Point Comfort ии..

96 21 27 174 01 30 137 45 23 206 4-0 12
283 01 o:;
217 28 15

.

I

,,

1---

Metres. 10063.1 5238.6 10105.5 ?1211.0 1466.8 7608.0 8032.и 3204.2 4008. 7 5440.7 6573.3 7121.5 2656.6 8760.5 3618.1 3386.6 7823.5
3895.0
4737 .o

rani..
llll04. 7

5728.8 11051.l 7796.1 1604.1 8319.9
8784,8

Mila и 6.25

3.26

Rock Point. .ии.иииии..
White's Point.иии. , ии.. Rock Point ............

6.28 4.43
0.91 4.73

TIMnnas .................. 11Je of Wight ии , .......... Ware River Point ......... Ware Neck............... Bare Neck ...............
Windmill.................

rn

58. w

76 22 48.45 76 24 09,45 76 24 09,33 76 19 3Ul4 76 26 12.37 76 25 02.83

Rock Point. ........... I Wbite's Point......... и I Roek Point ............ \Vhite's Point.. ииии , и.. Rock Point ............ White's Pointи.ии. , .....
R{)("k Point ...иии...... While's Point.. и.......

183 13 47 120 59 06 157 23 43 60 38 06 166 28 !Tl 90 16 17

4.99

8004.0 4383.8 5949.8 7188.4 518(),3 7787.9 2905.2

l.99
2.49 3.38
4.09 2.94 4.42

240 36 09 346 27 59 WO 14 20
48 11 41 127 36 29

228 09 30 307 35 !Tl
76 54 11'2 123 17 27 77 28 01 158 36 37 136 07 43 170 53 3a 254 27 21 317 52 37

1.65 5.44 2.25 2.10 4.86 2.42 2.79
4.62

2.'l6 5'2 47 303 16 12

Ware Neck ............
Ware River Point ......

9580.2
39.56.6 3703.5

Vaughan..................
Lone Point ................

257 26 40 338 35 27 316 06 ll6
350 53 17

Isle of Wight ииии и., иии
Rock .Point ..............

8555.6
4259.5

76 24 38.23
76 18 15.87

hie of Wight .......... Ware N<lck ............ Rock Point ............ White's Pointииииииииии

4492.5 7434.3
liOO/i.l

4912.9 8121l.9 6457.6

Pepper iointиии , и , ........

74 30 17 137 ll4 15

3.67

SOl1TBllllN

p ..llT.
37 10 05.65 37 13 20.6g 37 13 44.12 37 12 OO.f3 37 09 22.90 37 10 28.64 37 09 06.25 76 21 13.91 76 24 58.64 76 22 47.94 76 23 23.67 76 23 08.:i!J
76 !2."114.94

Cow lsiaDd Point .ииииииии
T horeugbfare .............

168 01 33 206 14 24 216 03 03 317 18 43 77 22 27 181 12 23 136 3'2 51 187 48 27 182 49 04 244 58 :18 283 20 43
3.55 26 26

Hog Island ............. New Point Comfort ии.и Hog bland .............
Cow Island Point и.ии , .

348 00 38 26 17 21
36 04 24 137 20 59 2.57 21 08 1 12 25 316 31 53 7 48 50 2 49 18 64 59 47 103 21 56 175 26 30 308 24 37 16 38 fj2 77 :l2 48 153 17 26 127 50 30 51 28 43
14 ;J6 55

1078.0 1633.4 5607.B 8176.6 3301.3 3811.8 3404.0 7069.7 11877 .5 3116.5
3068.5 2033.0

1178.9 1786.2

0.67 1.00 3.49 5.08

613'4.5 8941. 7
;J610,2 4168.5

TOOll Point ............... Green Point ииииииииииииии B ay Point ................

Tboroughrare ииииииииии Hog Island ............ Thorougbfare ииии , ииии , и Hog Island ....... , ииии Hog Island ............
Cow Island Point и..и..

2.()5 2.37
2.12 4.39

372-2.5 7731.2
12988.9 ;J408.l
3355.6 2223.2

7.38 1.94
J.l>l 1.26
l.83

y ork Poin.................
D rumlslan.d ..............
p !um Tree ............... p him Tree Me.rsh ......... N ew Point Comfort Lighthouse.

Cow Island Point и , иии. ~ Bay Point .............
Cow hland Point . ; New Point Co-.mfun и...
Costin ....и.......и.... Back. BiTer Point , ии... Baek River Point ......
a+ и и

76 19 o!0.33 76 17 17.39

128 25 33 196 36 51 2.'>7 21 51 333 16 36
307 49 01

2946.5 17197.7
27.Wl.8
~.9

321!2.2 18806,9
30097.0 5011. 7
~16.2

19.69 17.10 2.85 2.87 U!6 7.15 14.75 0.93 16.;JO 1.05 17.fla 1.27 14.07 12.90
21.00

37 07 21.42
37 06 4-0.47 37 17 59.56

'16 18 21.&2
'76 16 22.22 76 18 Oli.69 76 00 11.56 76 00 01.U 76 l:> 06.18 76 08 05.43 76 lS 13.59

4616.5
~.6

5048.5

231 28 04 194 35 43 run is 31 204 14 46 288 17 19 95 32 20 110 46 53 109 11 41 187 58 2S 279 39 2.1 224 10 13 268 -07 05 200 12 51

Phun Tree............. WolfTrap .............
R.osemacy ..............

21 28 10

11504.9 23730.3
1504.8 26228.4 1685.4 27T.17 .l
2049.9 221)37 .6
0075.'i.4
;J;l697 .6

12581,4 25950.7

0 Id Point_Comf&rt Lightи
house.

37 00 112.09
36 55 28.62 36 55 12.02 36 57 27.61

Old Point Comfon ..... C.::ape Henry West .... ,.

24 15 01 108 27 24
275 31 39 290 36 22 289 10 49 7 59 42 99 47 40 44 19 50

1645.6 2ffilfl.6
1843.1 30332.4
1!241. 7 24755,B

c ape Henry Light.-howe ии cape Henry East .........
w illoughby's P0i11t ииииии.
p 1-... HoWIO Point иииии F on M0111oe Flag-Illa.II"ииии
Iti..KPTOJf JloA.Ds1 A.lfD
NE&.ll

8\'fi,~:'2'o:'f!iи:: : : :
Cape Henry West .ии ,,. Cape Cbarles .......... Cal"' Henry West ......
Costin .......... и ииииии

!l!l697 .5
37009,4 10995.4 33991.5 28882.l 37a78.1

36 55 23.35
37 00 01.78

Cape Henry West иииии Costin .иии. иииии-ииииии Cape Henry \'lest ...... Costin .................

88 11 09 2.5 lB la
108 18 24 55 !17 54

10054.6

311>83.l
26410.8

6.25 19.31
16.41 !U.34

288 08 H
235 16 23

34362.8

Nouou.

8 ewell'и Point ............

36 56

58.~

76 19 03.ll

196 08 36 !161 Ill 41

Old Point Comfort .и.и. Willoughby'и Point иииии

16 09 25 81 15 03

~:;u1

tl012.6 6485.2

3.68

4.511

26*'

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section III.-Near Noifolk.
N amo or station.
Latitude. Longitude.

Sketch C.
Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.

Az;imutb.

To station-

I

n

I

fl

Bate'a Farm и. , ... , и...и... Cely .................... .

37 00 29.11 36 59 02.64

76 20 30.33 76 23 16.36
76 19 21.70 76 20 31.20

262 39 22 3413750 248 51 25 301 26 37 356 10 17 266 l2 57

Old Point Comfort ииии.
Sevи:all's Point и.... ....

8-2 41 04

Metres. 42-27.9
6847 .1

16l 38 43 68 54 47 12l 29 09 176 10 28 86 13 57 107 24 36 165 24 04 101 08 01
49 211 28

4623.5 7487.8
9726.4 8030.7 75:l3.0 2736.3

Yards.

Mileti. 2.63 4.25
5.53 4.56
4.28 J .56

Old Point Comfort ..... Sewall's Point ..ии.....
Sf'wall 's Point ........ . Old Point Comfort ... ..

8896.0 7343.6 6888.4
2:;()2.2

Segur .................... j 37 00 4Ul6 Hampton Spire ......... .. 'S7 01 29.44
36 57 48.84

287 22 53
345 23 11 281 04 48
2'~

Old Point Comfort ииии. Sewall's Point ..и.. , .и.
Sewnll 'i:; Point . , и , ... , . Bate:s Farm , и . и...и..

8637.3 4416.2
8089.6 7602.2

9445.5 482J.4
8846.6 8313.6

5.37
2.74
5.03 4.72

Newport News ........... . Free School Tract ........ Craney Island ........... .
Tanner's Po.int ииии..иии..
l'ig Point ............... ..

76 24 24.02 76 25 43.58 76 20 51.15
76 19 08.57
76 26 21.18

27 07

36 54 16.55

243 15 49 20-J 25 49 161 15 00 10;! 41 04 145 38 58 57 33 50
!!07 18 11 245 07 24

Sewall's Point ..... , и... Cely ................ ..
Cely .............. ,. .. Free School Tract и , ии.
Cely ................ .. Craney Island ......... .

63 19 49 2-J 27 18
311 13 33 283 38 08

11093.2 9540.6 11171.l 7450.l 10859.l 3009.1 11945.2 9962.2 3179.9 3328.9 3287.3 22!15.6 2575.9 1241. 7
1731. 7 1545.5

12131.2 10433.3
12216.4 8147.2

6.89 5.93 6.94

36 53 19.47
36 54 11.8.5

4.63
6.75 1.87 7.42 6.19
1.98 2.07

32.5 36 29
237 32 48

11875.2 3290.7
13063.6 10894.4 3477.4 3640.4

36 54 15.48
311 52 23.94

Cely ................ .. SewalPs Point .и.. , , и..
Craney Island., .ии , .и.. Tanner's Point ....... , ..

27 20 02 65 11 48

Lambert ................. .
Lovett ...и...............

122 34 27 177 35 26

357 38 23
344 06 2.1
58 50 33

30-2 33 22

36 51 :Jl.90 36 51 51.93

76 20 14.80

164 06 45 230 49 50 79 39 01 142 38 27
115 20 12 218 49 09

Craney Island., .... ... .
Latnbert .и.иии. и...ии..

3594.9 2510.4 2816.9 1357.9
1893.7 l6!JO.l

2.04 1.43 1.60 0.77 1.08 0.96 1.26
0.94

"Buena Visia. .и.. ,, ,, .ии...

76 18 32.49 76 19 11.61
76 17 49.72
V6 18 56. 72

Lovett .............ии.

259 38 00
322 38 08

Lambert .............. . Lovett ....... и~и ..... . Buena Vista .и..и..ии.. Bisllop и.. , ииииииииииии Buena 'Vista ....... , ... .

Bishop .................. .\ 36 51 12.86
Colley .................... / 36 51 17. 08
Srotch Creek ........... ..

295 19 34 38 49 32 266 19 :JO 315 :l3 24 340 05 39 65 19 48
17 27 34 82 22 40 2 56 37 306 03 09
349 40 09 312 52 !l6

!l6 20 19 13.5 23 49

21)32.6 1508.6 1082.9 2018.3
1330. 7

2222.B 1649.8
Jl84.2 2207.2

36 50 39.83 36 51 10. 74
36 50 03.37 36 49 $1.03

160 05 47

2:35 19 08
l'inncr'1& Point и..и ,, , и , , и , Portиmouth, Catholic ch. spire. Portmiouth, aavy..,,ard flag~ stair. Portsmouth Hospital...... 76 18 46.61 76 l7 54.43 76 17 25.90 197 27 25 262 22 04
182 56 34 126 03 46 169 40 23 132 53 21

Bishop .....ии......... Colley ............... ..
BuP-:na "'\i..ista . , .и , , , и , , . Colley ии.и.иии.иии.ии..

0.67 1.25 0.83 0.92 1.37 1.19 !l.04 I.91

1471. 7
2274.9 1909.0

1455. l 1609.4
2487.8 2067.6

Colley ................ .
Scotch Creek.,., . , , . , . Colley ............... ..
Scotch Creek .... ...и..

3291.5 3071. l 980.l 1548.9
1163.6 1074.6

3.599.5 3358.5 1071.8 1693,8 1294.4 1175.2
3490.0 llSl.5.6

36 50 45.52 36 51 19.62
36 51 05.-07

I
!
I

76 17 54.53 76 18 06.65
76 20 27.311

186 59 07 120 08 10 147 16 25 75 14 56 243 0.5 10 197 3B 10 98 54 10 151 52 28 153 30 03 1D7 25 38
43 07 04

Colley................. Pinner'и Point.... .. ии ..
Buena Viota . и .. .. и и .. и Piuner's Point .. .. .. и .. Buena Vista........... Lovett ............ ,. .. Hoиpital ..... , .. .. .. и .. и Colley..... и .. .. и .. и и .. llospit.al.... ... . .. .. .. .. Town Point...... .. и .. и Griccs. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. HO!!pital... .. .. .. и и .. и ..

6 59 10 300 07 37 327 l6 09 255 14 31 63 06 19 17 38 18 278 53 54 331 52 14 333 29 52 17 25 44 22-1 06 43 268 54 33 238 53 56 294 33 07 249 42 54 209 25 20 199 46 lU 305 39 51

0.61 0.96
0.74 0.67 1.98 0.64 0.44 0.76 0.62 0.79
Q.62

Fort Norfolk ............

J

Sunny Side..............

3191.4
10-29.3

Town Point..............
Gricell. ...... ии и иии ......

36 50 41.97 36 50 16.29 36 50 46.3:l 36 50 57.07 36 M 00.09 36 56 45. 73

76 17 26.36 76 17 atl.40 76 17 01.40 76 16 55.22 76 18 34.24 76 19 18. 78

706.2 1227.0 1006.7 829.8

772.3 134!.8 1100.9 007.5 1387.1 14:i9.5

0.52

Norfolk City Hall......... Norfolk BaptistClmrcb....

1268.4
1316.3 901.0

S8 55 O:l

58 54 IS 114 33 40
69 44 16 29 26 20 19 47 05 125 42 13

Town Point............ Colley.................
Craney Island.... .. .. .. Lovett . . . . и . . . . . . . . .. . . Craney Island.... . . .. . . Colley.................

1484.l 3613.3 5067.6
6755.9

985.3 1623.0
3951.4 5541.8 7388.1 7911.4

0.56

0.92 !l.25 3.15
4.20 4.50

Quarantine...............
Sewall'и Tree.............

7234.5

West Base .......... иии ..

37 14 JO. 78

77 !12 36.02 Iи

............................... ииииииииии ииииииииии иииииииии
71 16 42 320 36 42 282 14 !! West Base.............
West Base....... ... .. East Base. .. и .. .. и .. .. .

East Base.............. ..

37 14 27 .~l
37 14 43.60

77 21 35.28
77
~

251 18 09
HO 37 02 102 lS OB

1580.1
1306.7 2381.2

1728.0
1431.1 2604.0

0.96
0.81

Finn......................

09. 71

] .411

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*27

UNITED STATES COAST SUH.VEY.-GEOGRAPllICAL POSITIO:Si:i.

Section 111.-Appoinattox River.
Name or station.

Sketch <S.
Back tlZimuth.! Distance. , Distance. Oistauce.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimut!J.1

To station-

I

1

I

0

'

fl

o

I

11

--r
: Wei:it Base ............ .
1

a

I

JI

j-fetres.

Yards.
1061. ! 913.2

]jfites.

R░'Jyn..... ии.. ..и. .. ии. . Friend................... Archer...................
Walthall......... . .. . .. и и

37 14 25.44 37 14 45.15

77 23 34.86 77 22 18.98 77 22 38.57 77 20 57 .82 77 22 01. 7i!

2R7 17 56

227 54 45
72 00 29 87 48 49

Finn .и..и , и. , , . , ... , ... .

107 18 31 47 55 00 251 59 43 267 48 lB
142 57 53 162 19 07

!019.0

835.1
l!lOO.l 12.il.O

0.94 0.52

'1

Roslyn ии.ииииии. , .и.ии , Finu ................. .

2150.! 1368.0 ' 2831.0 \ 1737 A

1.22 0.78
1.~l

:n 15 34.2.5
37 15 48.54 37 16 :35.49 37 16 57.!l 37 17 15.04 37 17 55.29

322 57 15 342 18 55 45 40 22 79 56 57

I Ea"'t Base ...... , ...... .
: Friend ............... .

2588.8 l~&l. 7 2796.0 2521.0
2094.7 2138.1

0,99

I Archer иииииииии.ииииии
и, Areber и...и.........и. I Walthall.............. .

: Friend ...ии.и...и.....

22.1 39 33 259 55 56

:iom.6 2756.9
2'200. 7 233$.2 2312.4 1932.1 1386 .6

1.74
1.57 1.:10

Hare.....................

25 41 15
312 3.5 39

205 40 53 132 36 18
~7

1.33
J.3l

Gilliam...................
Brick House..............

77 20 55.27 77 21 47 .56
77 20 37.38

1 41 56 67 51 m 15 57 58 293 13 25

! Hare .................. .
Hare..................
Gillia1n , ........... , и и . Gilliom................ Brick House . и и и .. .. и и .
Heth и и и .. и .. и и и и и и . и и и Brick J!ou.e .и.и.ии , и ..

I Walthall .............. .

181 41 55 50 :lJ
195 57 49 113 13 57

2114.5
1766.8

I.IO
0.79 0.87

1268.0 1401.3
1846.6 2127.5
;.J{JJ0.9

1532.4
2019.4 932(3.6
2199.1 I

Heth..................... Pon Walthall.............

13 48 36 54 20 09
299 34 58 359 28 26

193 48 26 234 19 27
l 19 35 41 179 :18 27

I.15
1.3'2

37 18 27.00
37 18 :J0.63

77 21 48.39

22J3.6 1371.6 1596.3
20.'H.8 22.i!9. 1 2167.9 1486.6

2442.6 1499.9 1749.7

1.25 1.39
0.85
O.!J9

Bumm...................

77 20 03.54

37 24 26 140 33 01

Heth ....... , и и и и . и . и и . Cobb ........... ,......

217 24 05 320 32 36

Cobb.....................
Strachan..... .. .. и .. и .. и и
Bland .................. ..

37 19 10.62

77 20 44.74

49 42 06 355 32 03

Port Walthall.. . . и . . . и и Heth ............ , .... ,

229 41 27 175 32 07 277 15 10 229 50 44 271 13 01
:J03 23 45

!
I

2247.1 2547 .o

1.28 1.45 1.35
0.9:.I

37 19 01. 73 , 77 19 17 .39
37 18 28.77 77 18 14.&2

97 16 03 49 51 12
91 14 07 l!j;j 24 23
85 08 23 342 03 52

Cobb .... , и и и и и и и и .. и и и Huram.................
Buram .и.и.и... и.ииииии
Strachan , ии , , ии , , , , , , ,

2370.1 !IJ;!;j,7

Cedar Grove ...... , иии , .ии. Comer ииииии.и.и.иии.и...
Rae ..................... .
City Point ............... .
BoUing's House и..ии ииии , .

I 37 19 04.981 77 18 29 .49
37 18 28.49 37 19 37.66 37 18 69.12 37 13 47.2.'i 37 13 35. 75 77 17 20.29 77 16 23.68 77 23 49.35
77 24 08.44

2677 .7 1845.4
1183.5 1173.2 2161.4 и 1484.3
2.'il2.3

29-24 .7
201~.l

1.f'6

1.15
0.74 0.73

I Bland ................ .
Bland ................ . Comerи..иии.и. ,,,, и..и , Bland ии.ииии..и.ии.иии

Strachan ..и....и...и...

26.5 07 54 162 04 01

1294.2

1283.0 !!.163.6
1623.2 2747 .4

77 17 14.54

rn1

22 28 . Cedar Gro,иe . ии , ... , и.. 00 20 48 j Bland ................ .

30! 21 43
270 :io 11

I.34 O.!l"l 1.56 1.33
1 80 0.98

32 18 19
356 11 54

212 17 46
176 11 57 201 06 53 ~ 57 59

2137 .0
2891 .R

ro:r; .0
3162.4 1710.0

71 08 00 52 58 30
248 07 3.1

Comer ................. .
R<ll!lyn ............... .

156'3.3

196 52 41

16 52 50
68 08 17

West Base ............. .
Jlos!yn ............... .. West Bas~ ............ .

1230.3 1947.7 1741.0 252Ll
4066.8 1568.8

1345.4
2130.0

0.76 1.21
1.08 1.57
2.53 0.98

Petersburg, Cath<>liC cblll'Ch Petersburg, Methodist eh ии
Pete~burg,

208 22 58
244 37 45

28 2:l 15
64 38 41 27 10 00 17 23 il6

1903.9 27:>7.0

3i 13 36.87
37 13 46.13 371347.85

Tl

23 53.89

207 09 14 197 23 15

Archer................ . Jloalyn ииии , ........... . E..illase ............. .

4447.3 lil5,6 4229.5 2501.5
1409.0 3288.0

church spire.

Presbyterian

Tl 24 03.56 772357.71

250 52 36 2"░ 35 38 205 55 10 и234 00 56

West Base............ .
Friend ....ии..ии.и..и.

70 54 06 70 36 31 25 55 24 54 01 56

3867.6
2'287 .5

2.40 1.42

Petersburg Court-Muse. иии

Roslyn ии.ии.и.ии.....и.

1288.4 3006.7

0.80
l.87

Dead Tree, at Gilliam'ии .ии

37 16 s2.95

I

I

n 21 o3.aJ

69 29 20 159 09 3Q

Hare .................. Port Walthall ......... .

249 28 45 339 09 03

153.5.6 311$.5

1679.3 3410.3

0.95 1.94

1

28*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED SrATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPIDCAL POSITIONS.

Section IV.-Swco1ZSt South
Name or staU011.
Longitude. Azimuth.

ef Bodie's Island.
To station-

Sketch]).
Back aиilnuth . Distance. DiolllJJce. Distance,

Latitude.

" " E. 0 38 25.44 South End of Bodie'и Island 35 48 34.oa I Base. 0 37 40.811 Fifth Mile Stone .......... 35 49 57 .40
I

.

.

I

" . ииииииииииииииииииииииии .............. .......... .......... ......... .............
0

I

.

I

II

Met,.u.

--- --Yal"lk и 3063,B

Miles.

336 28 22 244 45 40 209 38 41 147 06 54 96 53 48 134 52 15 92 20 49
I::& 54 18 I 06 :l6

South End of B..e иииии
South End of Base, .и.. F ifih Mile Stone иииииии

156 28 48 64 47 02 29 39 J7 327 06 00 276 51 .52

2801.6 3899.3 4868.3 2696.5 50'.!8.4

1.74

South Duck bland ........ Bodie'и Island Ligbt-holll!e. Midget ...................
Green Ieland .ии , и..ииии.и

35 47 40.11 35 47 2().56 35 47 :JS!.96 35 45 57 .84 35 45 39.37

0 36 04.94 0 39 23.77 0 39 40.78 0 39 13.59 0 40 56.19 0 39 49.28 0 40 17.5:; 0 39 54.45 0 41 16.05 0 41 44.76 0 40 41.34 0 40 33.6,5 0 41 20.5i

4264.2
li:l23.B

2.4'l 3.02 3.12
1.66 3.'37

South End of Base, .... south Duck Island .....

2948.8 5498,9 2918.1 5931.2
5427.5 3291.3
$2886.8

1.ts

South End of Baиe .иии и 1 314 51 30 272 18 4J South Duck Island .....
Routh End of Base ..и.. 345 53 50

I

~68.41 5423.7
4963.1 3009.7
2639.1

Midget.................
Green Island и и , ....и...

13 06 52
282 ))6 36 331 34 41

3.08 1.87 J.!14 2.47 1.69 1.12 2.!18 1.80
1.11 1.20

Wreck Ba11"ord ии ,.,, ...... Bait Pump................ Eagle Nest PoiJu.......... Gar Ialand ................

10-l 27 36
JM:J526

Midget ............. ,, .. Wreck Salford .........
Green Island, иии.и.и...
G~en

3979.8 27'.!2.2 1810.1 3674.6 2902.8
1782.1 1936. 7

4352.2
W/6.9 1979.5

35 46 48.B7 35 44 10.60
3545 W.56 35 44 32.66 35 43 M.45 35 42 37 .50

:J-21 .52 28
29 41 12
154
C)4 36 119 J2 03

141 .53 07 209 40 51
334 03 59 19 32 26

Island ............ Wreck Safford .........

4018.4 3174.4 1948.9 !117.9 1770,9 2313.5 2443.4 3716.4 3204.8
31~.7

144 50 3.1
342 33 39

Green Island . . , .и..ии , . Eagle Nest Point, и.....
E~le Nest Point ..... ,, Wreck BaJl'ord.,,,,,,,,

324 50 09 162 33 53 245 10 19 346 21 34 281 14 51 :l38 57 16 348 13 42
33 14 06

Ethridp's llonae иииии. , , и
Brig Adam.a ..............

65 10 53 166 21 46 JOI 15 43 156 57 44 168 13 56 213 13 29 166 53 03 !1:33 57 29 201 30 48 47 54 37 114 33 47 165 56 07 163 14 59 2iJ6 23 57
~ 22 01 167 38 20

1619.4 2!1.5.5
2'234.3 3398.4

J.01 l.31
l.39 2.ll 1.82 1.81

Eagle N e@t Point, иии , , ,

Wreck Bafford иииии , ..и
Eagle Nest Point .ии , ... Eagle Nest Point ...... ,,.

Pea Ia18nd ................ LitUe Pea Island ..... ,, .. , Pea bland Hain .......... New Inlet, Nonh Point ... JI.Ck Shoal................ New Inlet, South Point ... SnctLUllT raow N.1rw lNLtT TO C..t..P& HA.TTER.A.8.

Brig Adams .......... ,.

2908.5
1782.6 2209.8 1657.6 1328.9 2736.4 3680.5
~-1

M:Jo.6

35 43 14.27
35 43 06.41

Brig Adams ...... ,,,,,. Brig Adamи ............ Pea Island .............
Pea Island .и.ии. , .. , .и

346 52 54 53 58 11 21 31 02 'Hi 54 14 294 32 49 345 l>-5 46
34J 14 40

1949.4 2416.6 1812.7 1453.3

Lll J.37 J.03 0.82
l.70 2,;)9 l.77 1.43

35 42 00.60
35 41 09.05 35 41 03.97

0 42 20.36
0 41 13.98 0 42 35.58

Brig AdalD8 .... ,,,,.,,.
Pea lslaDd . иииии....... New Inliet, North Poini.

2992.5 40!l4 .9
3\13.2 2519.9
2249.9 '

2!M!>.8 0057.4 1786.7

46114

3()

Je.ck Shoal. иииии..и.иии

New Inlet, North Point.

274 21 13 347 38 11

19S3.9

J.118 1.11

i
35 40 16.89 35 38 14.83 35 37 59.49 0 42 45.et! \ 0 41! 49.18 0 42 13.60 0
~

s outh of New Inlet Bi!!nal.
Loggerhead Inlet. ......... Loggerhead Shoo! ии.. , , иии

124 49 48 168 39 02 155 58 28 178 44 16 242 09 20 100 M. 04 145 52 08 160 1.7 08 175 18 36 240 07 11 192 M 17 168 33 54 139 42 45 48 57 31 142 42 29 182 32 45 174 53 24 lt!6 .57 36 210 50 19
303 06 02

Jack l!ltlllll .......

New Inlet, Ji onh p;;b,i::

304 48 .54 348 38 47 335 57 33 358 44 14 62 09 41 10 51 23 325 51 16 340 16 37 355 18 28 60 07 35 12 51 30 348 33 45 319 41! 18 ll:l8 57 14 322 42 13

2814. 7

3'259.9
5878.3 3762.3 1012.3 4311. 7 40'l5.2 4041.4 4396.4 1158.3 2671.3 9068.4 1798.5 998.4

3078.1 3564.9
64!!8.3 4114.3
4715.~

I. 75 2.02

Jack Sht>al .............
South of New Ill let . ...

3.65
l!.34

~=~:w.~'i~,~i:::: i
LOA"erhead Shoal ...... Loggerb.ead Inlel ии , .. , , LO!lllerheod Inlet .......
Chickantlcomico North.

1107.0

0.63 2.68

ChickaxnicOmico North и , и1 35 36 11,38

4J.37

4401.8 4419.6 4807.8 l!J66. 7 29'Jl.3
~l.9

2.50 2.fil 2.73 0.72 1.66 l.12 0.62 0.70 0.97

Windmill.................
Cbicl<amlC<>mieo Main иии.
иckamieomic<>, (2) , и , , , , Chi

35 35 52.65
35 34 46.87

0 43 03.47 0 43 19.76 0434967 0 43 46.93 0 43 33.09 0 42 54.34 0 43 05.89

Chiebaniicomico Nertb.

WindmUI .............. WlndmUI ..............
Chickanricomioo Main .. Chickanlicomico Main ..

1.29

35 35 08.14
35 34 17.73

191!6.8 1091.8
12:H.5 1700. 7

Chickamicomieo, (3) ииии.и

Ulle.9
l.555.2

ChiokallJ.icomico, (2) . , , Chickainlcomico Main., Cbickamicowico, (3) .и ,
Chi~kalll~comico, (3? . .. Clllckam1eomieo, ( 4 ... Openin~ Marsh.,,., , иии Cbickawieolcieo, (4) .. ,

2 3'I 46

c bickamieomlco, (4) .. , .. ,
0 peninи MIUoh ...........

35 3il 45.10
35 33 05.77 35 31 20,35

354 53 16 6 57 45 30 50 50
123 08 24

3767.3 28-W.5

4119.8 3144.6

2.34
1. 79 1.61 0.72

2582.6
1165.3

2824.3 1274.:l

w reek Dolphin ...........
N oEggPotnt .............

174 53 07 194 4l 49

354 53 00

u

3261.6

41106

2700.0

2962.6

3500.8

2.03
1.68 1.56 0.86

35 31 47,'i'J E. 0 42 22.03

307 39 08

"25 08 29

ClliclaUnieomleo, (4) ... Wreck Ilolphln ........

45 09 10

2500.11
1379.9

127 39 33

i~:~i

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*29

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPfilCAL POSITIONS.

Section IV.-Seacoast from New Inlet to Cape Hatteras.
Name or station.
Latitude. Longitude.

Sketch D.

!

I
Azimuth.
To station -

j

!Back azimuth.I Distance. Distance. Distanee,

Cedar Hammock Island .и.
B8" Signal ............. ..

:i.'; ~; oo 1E. ~
35 29 49.66 35 28 17 .07 35 28 24.13 35 26 20.20
35 25 56.91

~ o;.51 I o -12 47 .B3 I
I

193 JO o~ 231 U8 42
141 ;.;i 58

No Egg Point........... . Wreck Dulphm ии .. и .. .

i
I
1

13 5(l 20 51 OS 20

I
'

>Iиt.r<S. \-;:;;::- ----;;;:-,
2"13. 7
20~:!.~ .

~20.8 i2'i7. 7

I.~$ 1.29

Myrtle Signal........... ..

0 42 33.86
0 39 41.G7

i

109 14 4;J
169 22 OJ 9'2 5.J 53

CedarHammockJ:-;land. 1 Wre<k Dolpt1in ........ 1 Cedar Hammock lsland. Gull lslaud ...... , ......

321 53 31 9 14 54 349 21 41 272 54 15
~ 17 2
..,~

1891.5 28;ll.7
4417 .6

0068.5 3-0116.7 4831.0 4670.2 5813.4 5879.3
3944.4 6103.3

1.18 1.76

i

4278.6
5316.0 5376.2

2.74 2.65

Gull Island .............. . Little Hill ............... .
Drain ls!and ............ ..

24() 15 37 219 53 27 182 06 57 13J 11 26

Cedar Hammock lsland.j

Day SignaJ, ииии иииииии , !

54 4

!,

3.30
3.:34
2.~4

0 42 26.08 0 41 48.74 0 42
~.33

Myrtle Signal ........ Gull lиlaud ............ иI

,.!

3 07 o-i 313 OS 53
14 45 36

3606.9
50l:!l.l

3.47

194 45 09 = 4147
143 13 40 182 06 30
lS:J 10 43 224 34 31

Myrtle Signal .. и .. и ... ! LittleHm .............. ! Drain Island ..ии..иии... LittlOHlll ............. .

52 42 09 323 13 19 2 06 a-~
3 10 4.5 44 ;11 54

4466.3 1183.9
l4!i7 .3 18135.9

48'4.I! 1294. 7
1593.7
206:1.4
2!l82.6

o. 74

2.18

Bald Beach ............. .. Terrapin Point ии... , ии.и..
Barnes' Signal ииии , и ииии , и

35 25 19.G4 35 24 46.32 35 24 27 .20 35 23 56.45 35 23 17.55
35 22 43.91

0.91 1.17

0 41 43.95

Drain Island .... ..и... ,
Bald Beach ........... .

2178.7 1415.2
1046.3 160'2.5

1547 .6
Jl41.2 1752.4

1.35 0.88
0.65 l.00

I

0 42

IS.~

124 16 ~i 184 3(j 34 191 00 49 230 50 53 151 18 26 193 18 3J 183 10 24
216 a7 47

Terrapin Point .....и... Bald Beach ........и... Terrapin Point .ии.ии , .. . Barn~s' Signal .. ..и.и , , .

304 16 25
4 36 37

Bog Cllan11el .. , .......... . Bog Openingииииииииииииии
Old Tree ............... ..

0 41 a>l.10 0 41 58.10 0 40 27.18 0 41 46.57
0 41 06.70 0 41 18.74

11 00 56 00 >I 19

1565.6 1500.7 1366.6 2205.5

1712.l 1641.1 1494.5 2411.9
2448.4 1418.9
75.C..4 !70-i,8

0.97 0.94

Bog Channel . .и..и... , , 1 Barnes' Signal ... , .и , .. J
Bog Channel ........... \
Bog Opening и и , , ииии , . и Bog Opening . иииии , ииии

331 18 11 13 18 4:;
3 36 315 10 10 27

o.ss

1.37

l

Stowe ..............ии ~ ...
Millcreek ............... .
BcarbOfough ............. .

35 22 27.92 35 22 04.23 35 21 17.06 35 21 08.84 35 90 38.43 35 90 04.44 35 20 07.11 35 18 38.96 . 35 18 12.47

135 13 rn 190 46 29
202 55 11 234 02 31

Old Tree .............. ,

Old Tree иииии.иии ,ииии Stowe ................. ,

I

58 13 00 46 36

░"

2!!38.9 1297.5
1557. l

1.39 0.81
ll.41 0.97

694.4

22 55 23 54 0-2 54

l:lr..6 1213.1
1484.9

14.'\l.R 1359.4

0.82
0.77

168 11 21 197 49 .;2
206 4:l 15 257 42 J9

Mill Creek ............ . Stowe ...........и.....
!'ill Creek ..... ..и , , ... ,
i..::carborough .иии , иии , , ии I

348 11 14 17 50 0$

2293.5
1910.9 1190.6
1160.3

1623.9 2508.1
2089.7 1302.0

ll.92 1.43

Lookout, (1) ............ .. Lookout, (2) ............ ..
Bamии'Mill иииииии.иииии.

0 40 32.66
0 40 59.75

26 43 34 77 43 05 323 52 30 21 50 10

1.19 0.74
0.72 0.81 1.25 0.91

143 52 46 201 ""59
189 5.5 lS 224 32 54
85 15 00 182 l8 24

Lookout, (I) ......... ..
Scarborough.,, , .и , , , ..

1283.5 2014.9 1470.0

1268.9 H03.6 220.'!.4 1607 .6
101'9. I

0 40 18.91 0405821
0 40 21.33

Lookout, (1) .......... . Lookout, (2) .......... . Barnes' Mill .......... .
Lookout, (2) ии.и. ....и.

g 55 .24
~

33 17

Lookout, (3), ............ . Long Point .............. . Jardella ................ .. Log ..................... . Palmetto ................ . Last Signal ............. .
81U.COA~T '1LOK HATTERA.8 TO

265 14 37

2 18 25
358 40 JO

99.5.9' 965.8 26.14. 7 2871.8
3575.7 1198.6
~l.9

1056.2

0.62 0.60
1.64 1. 79

178 4Q JI
198 55 22 Hi4 47 01

Barnes' Mill .......... .
Lookout, (3) ииииииииии.
Barn~s'

18 55 43

2881.2 3140.5
3910.3
1~10.8

0 40 56.07
0 40 00.83

13',J 55 35

Long Point ....и.......

Mm ............ .

344 46 40 312 55 15
346 54 37 3 10 15
11 22 17 50 37 18 291 11 38 4 -02 41

2.22
0.74 2.05 1.49

35 16 54.91
35 16 10.54

1665455
183 10 12 191 21 57

Long Point ........... . Jardella ........... , .. ..

2393.8

3599.9 2617 .8
5101.6 2356.3
17111.1

0 39 44.93
0 40 45.35

2:iO 36 39 35 15 51.32
111 12 13 184 02 38

LongPoint............ . Log ................... .
Palmettn.............. . Log .................. .

2154.7
1637.8 1904.3

4efi5.l

2.90 1.34
1.02 1.22

2148.1

C.a..PE
BEиU-

1'6B.T H.AllBOR.

Cape Hatteras Light-house
l!:>ng'и Point., ии ,.........

35 15 1 UIS 35 16 11 ,g:i
35 16 16. 79

0 40 09.33

2115 25 !IJ
0 35 16.53
0 38 52.11!!

161 20 37

Palm~tto. ии ,. и ... , .. и и Laot Signal. ии ,........

341 20 23 36 25 4!i
46 51 !!:! 104 II 50

1!!27.4 1533.4
10472.8 763S!. 7
5470.4 7".!43. 7
6fi()8.9

2107.7 1676.9 11452.8 8346. 9

1.20 0.95

22li 48 28 284 09 &I
8S ll6 55

Barnes' Mill ........... . Cape Hruterss Light ... .
King's Point............ Ban-' Mill...........

6.51 4.74
3.~o

Jannet's Mill ии,., .иииии ,

268 24 50
17 12 40
38 03 54

197 11 00
0 31! 37.81

5982.3 8030.9
7118.0 12981.0

4.li6
4.04

BareHm ................ .

35 13 25.50

Sl54 02 il8 96!1 46 39 3010913

218 02 22

King's Point .и. ....ииии

Cape Haueiaa LiФIU ииии King's Point. иииииииииии

74 06 49

11870.3

7.3'! 6.47

F.gg Sboal ............. ..

Z u; 00.65 E. 0 28 27.es

BareHm ............ ..

82 50 35 121 11 37

10409.6 7:l84.6

11383.6 8075.6

4.59

30*

REPORT 0 F THE SUPERIN'l'EN DENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section IV.-Scacoa.st fi'om Cape Hatteras to Beaufort Harbor.
Name orstatio-n.
Latitude. [ Longitude.

Sketch D.

1 0 P_o_rpo_ise-.-.ии-... -.-.-.ии-...-.-.-. -35_ _1_2_'

2-~-,.-62-IE. ~ ~ 1{.so I

!

!
I

Atimuth.

l

'I'o station-

Back nzimutJ Distance. Distance. Distance.

Metus.
243 23 54 227 49 ~ mg 44 21 2901751

Bare l!m .............. .
King's Pc>int.
<4 и и и и и и , ии

63 2.5 18 47 52 19 :ro9 43 ll 110 19 ()'2
8 01 56

4129.0 10391.3

Yards. 4515.4 11363.6
4577 .8

Miles. 2.56 6.46

Dllran '8 Pointии...и.ииии.и
East Inlet и.ииии...ии..ии.

35 14 0-2.82

I 35 11 52.77,
I
35 11 08 .53 35 12 17. 78 3510 07.11 35 08 52. 74

I

0 30 35.23 0 27 50.S9 0 26 22.45

Egg Shoal. .......... ,. BareHm ............. .

~gl
6749.2 3712.2

2.60
2.05

3613.9

188 01 34 254 09 54 247 42 47 201 30 09

West Inlet. иии.ииии..ии.и Legged Lump............. Well╗' Creek иииии , ....... Gr<at Swash .. и и и .. .. и .. и

I Porpoise ............. .. I Porpoise .ииии , .ииииииии

Egg Shoal ............. .

74

u

I

16

7380. 7 4()59.6

4.19 2.31

Egg <lhoal ............. . West Inlet............. Egg Shoal.............. West Inlet............. Legged LUITJp ....... иии! Wells' Creek........... Legged Lump, иии , и и и и и Wells' Creek.......... Legged Lump ииии ,.....

67 41 59 21 31 21

6268.8
864~.9

6855.4
9458.2 8324.9 13154.3

3.89
5.37

O 21 33.56
0 23 15.;)()

286 15 21 240 31 33
248 11 55

106 18 08 60 35 3-2
68 13 43 3-27 24 13

7612.6
l2C-28.B

4.73 7.47
3.17 2.97 4.24 4.60 4.87 4.36
4.01 4.09

5099.l
4778.8

147 25 12 0 19 01.33 0 18 06.95 0 15 10.45 0 12 S3. 24 0 12 15.58 0 11 00 97 0 08 37 .88 0 08 38.18 0 00 35.34 2:10 21 13 211 21 08

5576.2 52J6.0
7461.B

70 'l3 39 31 22 30 85 09 34 48 06 37 43 46 47 62 33 42 87 2.'i 46 126 58 20 73 22 25 13 37 01

6823.3 7399.5 7830.6
70"..!2.8

llO!H.9

Clark'и Reef..... ""'....
First Hammock Hill ии .. и и

35 09 45.56
35 07 H .19

26.'\ 06 36 220 04 3il
223 45 o:; 1!42 31 29 267 22 14 306 57 01
:l53 20 44 193 36 39

8563.3
7679.9

Clark's R.ef.... .... . ... Great Swash ..... ,.....
Great Swash.... и .. и и .. Firet Hammock Hill....

6458.5 6500.2 9:J25.8 4346. 7 4621.l 4050.7

7062.8 7202.5 10198.4 4753.4 5053.5 4i29.7 7701.61 6il91.3
40&1.5 '

Our Reef.............. ,..

35 08 39.01

5.79 2.70 2.87

Ocracoke Light-house.....
Middle Ground,...........

35 06 21 .2.5

Fin!t Hammock Hill.... Our Reef ........... , ии , First Hammock Hill.... Our Re<"f.... .... и . и ....
Middle Ground......... Our Reef..............

2.5!
4.38 3.97 2.32 5.01
2.93 2.44

as

05 a:J.18

243 44 59 206 23 3'2 283 o7 12 233 14 40 230 01 20 179 53 22 274 2.5 44 323 17 09
260 44 22 3'16 3"J 20
i!Ol 00 07 154 49 13

63 47 23 26 24 37
103 58 34 53 17 07 50 02 42 359 53 2i 94 26 54 143 18 19

6393.1
3734. I

7042 .6

Beacon Island............
East J'ortsmouth.. ии и и и . и и
Shell loland ..... , иии , и и и и

35 06 02.42
35

8067 .2
4719.3 393-2.5 3112.3 5205.4
2368.0 4256.2 a749.8 4134.5

8822.0
5160.9 4300.5 3403.5 5692.5 2.'\89.6
46ii4.5

oa 54.80

Middle Ground.,....... Beacon Isllllld ..... , ии ,.
8cacon I.land., иииии ,. East Portsmouth....... Beacon Island ииииии... East Portsmouth ....... .

35 06 10 .24 35 05 50.IJ6

1.93 3.23

Portsmouth CassJ.e ииииииии
Portsmouth Steeple иии.ии и

0 07 05.59
0 07 44.81

I
I

so 45 15 146 34 13
21 00 37 334 48 33 10 31 09 51 53 49 45 19 01

1.47 2.64

35 04 08.S>l

Beacon Island.,, иииии , Shell Island .ииии.иииии.
Shell Island иии. , ...... . E.ut ..l'ortsmouth ииииии.

4100.7

2.33
2.57

4521.4

South Portsmout.ll ........ i 35 01 58. 95 E.

o 05 38.61

190 30 36 231 5'2 06 225 14 09 246 20 16
~.H

7B75.5 5783.4

63ll4 .6

8612.4

4.89
3.59

Harbor Ioland... иии и и ииии Wade.................... Chadwick................

34 59 16.58

w.o 01 52.53

Shell Island .......... . South l'ortemouth ..... . South Portsmoutl1 и , и и и Harbor Island ииии , иии ,
Harbor bland.......... Wade ............. ,...

66 24 35
41 15 39 273 54 Ol
J.;Q

18113.6 ' 19808.5 12483 .5 13651.6

ll.2i
7.76

34 59 02.90 E. O Oll 10.21

Ila 56 20

13 39

7572.6
6170.0

8281 2 6747.3 6737. 7 8389.5

4.71 3.83
3.B:l

34 55 59.18 W.O 01 13.00 34 57 14.61
34 56 17.55 34 59 01.95 0 05 11.17 0 05 14.81 0 04 46.119 0 05 00.20 0 06 ll2.87 0 07 l!l.22 0 OS ID.98

170 51 04
22.! 25 Ml

50 42 42 27 47

6161.2 7671.7 6285.7 6453.2

4.77

Lupton'и Mill ии и и и . и и и ии .
Lon& Point............... Hog Island ии и и и и и .. и и и и и .

233 15 43
2!11 05 33

Hnrhor !Бland, и . и и и и и и и cnadwiek. ии. . ..... ... Harbor Island.......... CbadWi"1< и и .. и ии и и и и и и Harbor Island ииии , ииии Long Point и . . . и . .. . и .. "

53 17 37 111 01 49 42 56 34 95 18 34 84 11 39 187 55 48
3fi6 19 ~

6873.9 7057.0
8239. l

3.91
4.01

22! 54 38 275 16 16 ll64 09 59 7 00 04
и175 19 36

7534.1 6l3!J.4 4447 ,1 lill4.7
5786.4 7754.ll

6713.9
486.1.2

4.68 3.81 2.76 3.18

иI

5593.3
63127 .8 8479.5

.Honie loland .. и и и .. ии ии и и
t>oo.lmut ......... ,. ии ии ии

34 53 10.14 34 55 23.33

227 46 59
261 57 29

Lons Point.. и и и и. и .. и . Clwiwlc.11: и и и и .. и и . и и и .
Cltadwick ииииии , ..... , Horse Island...........

47 49 09 82 00 ~ 152 55 34

3.60 4.8't
4.92 2.!l6
~.92

332 54 47
222 16 48
303 07 18

7918.2 4009.4
4692.1 42U.4

1!6.59.1 0040.7
5131.l
4608.7

Hall'и Point..............
White Point..............

34 54 94.90 34 53 09.56

Long Point............ Horse Island ииииииии , и и

42 17 59

123 08 37
39 13 18 89 4S 51
353 41 51 46 04 mi 53 51! 23 103 11 08

2.62

,

219 11 31 269 46 56
173 42 02 226 O'J 21 233 50 42 263 09 16

Long Point...... , и , и и Horse Island...........
White. P"int ии , и и ...... Horse Island........... \Vhlte Point иии , ии , и и и и Cow Pen..............

7475.4 5097.8

8174.9 5574.8 4869.4 7002.5

4.65 3.17 2.77 3.98 3.44 3.17

Cow Pen.................

34 50 4S.9i! 34 51 513.llO

0 08 Ol.74

4452.7 6403.3

l!dill

l'olln....... ... ......

w .0 11

17 .04

5536.l W94.7

6054.l 5571.4

OF THE UNITED STATES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOll 1853.

*31

mrITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section JV.-Seacoast from Cape Hatteras to Beaufort Ha,rbor.
Niu'le or f!lta.tion.

Sketch D.
1

JI

LatI'tude.

Longitude.

I
JI

Azimuth.

To station-

Back azimuth.,/ Distance. 1Distance. D;.tance.

__________,i______ , _____ ,_____
Cedar Inlet ............... ; 34 49 00.68 W.O 09 53.08

!

0

1

/1

I

0

I

Ir

0

1

1и

154 09 48

I Mill Point.............
1и

:----------1-----1---1----,--Cow Pen...............
Cow Pen.............. 334 09 00 41 06 123 28 2.1 1 :: lt".l 2~ 45

!

!

-

/

11

\

1 l\lill ..................... : 34 52 16.431

2:.!l 05 23
0 10 47.89 203 26 48 : ;: 282 20 44

271

Metrn. \ Yarh. 4e93.0 j 5350.e . 43L3.3 . 4<06.0 \
5058.2

I
I
\I

Miles. 3.04 2.67
3.14
:::

Piney Point ............. : 34 4& 38.99
Great Island ............. ! 34 411 31.20

I

O 13 25.03
0 12 23.69 O 16 29.16

:~ I ~~~la;::~;~::::::::::::1
Cedar Inlet............ Piney Point..... .. .. .. Cedar Inlet............ Piney Point............ Great bland........... Davis' !'hore. .... ...... Great Island........... Davis' Shnre ..и. и..и.. Horse Point............ Bиll's Point............ Davis' Shore ...... , ии и Bell's Point............

~~: I :;,~~::I
5992 .5
598~.0

i

[~'\13.31'

::::
60-2\1.2
6 ~3 .. 2

5S31.5

:J.-IJ

~6 ~ ~l 33 " 4" ~ 1-

1

344 54 58 39 44 :le 41 51 36 95 09 06 340 56 O.o 36 20 05 28 Cl.O 4..5 95 J.3 24

I6
и1

9

4

I

3. 72 3.72 4.36 3.89 4.05 4.32 4.00 3,2:} 1.81 2.23 3.53 3,60 3.55 2.48 2.50 4.26 3.58 4.4a
3.49 3.44

Davis' Shore.............
HoniP. Point иииии.ии ии~и..
Bell's Point и . . и . .. . . .. .. .

34 4<l 49.3!l 1

221 49 51 275 06 46 160 56 53 216 18 33 207 59 37 2i5 11 28 19 33 36 214 50 56 163 39 31 215 3-l 28 204 44 30 273 38 06 10 27 l.S 26J 39 04 IR61742 220 09 46
244 27 02 306 42 03

7014.il 6;)65.7 6515.3 6947.5

7671.21 6852.0
712.5.0 7597.6
lj

34 43 29 . .53
34 43 44. 7l!

tи 15 05.50
0 18 28. ll

6442-.7 5175.51 2!ll4.I 3585 .8 567'.l.9 6116.0

J

7045.6 5659.8 31R6.S 39-21.3 6203.7 66&;,3 6248.8 43'2.l 4407 .8 7498.5

Davis' Island ............ 'i 34 4S 13.89
Lone Signal иииии , ииии , и , и

0 17 49. 76
0 17 25.37

l Sbcll Point .............. и I
I

34 40 48. l! 34 40 66.3!1

!

1

199 3:J 14 34 51 42 343 38 55 :J5 35 48 24 45 23 93 31! 35

Horse Point............
Bell's Point............ Lonel5ignal...........

I

0 20 02.131
0 19

5714.1 \ 3998.0 4030.6 6856 .9

I
I

WillisMill ................ j 34 43 05.00

Cape Lookout ............ i :W 37 00.40
Sbackelford ............. .- 34 311 37. 79 i
I

i

33.391
2i.21

Shell Point. ..... , .... , Horse Point и .. .. и .. ии .
ShellPoint............ Lone 8ignal....... ....
Shell Point...... ..... Cape Lookout ........ ,

190 26 59 6'l 41 37
61756 40 11 29
6-l 28 5.5 126 43 42
3Q9

0 20 26.96

o 23

I

5164.7 1 7166.4
5615.4 ,и 5.\.15.0

6304.1 7837 .0
6141.9 6052.9

Cape Lookout Light-house.! 34 37 19. 73

0 19 87.94

129 2.5 47 211 09 52 286 59 53 321 27 07

Shackelford ..... , .... , Lone Signal.... .......
Shell Point. .......... .. Shackelford .......... .
Lyn~h

23 51 31 11 19

6699. 8 7504.1 9674.0 6715.3

7326. 7 8206.3 10579.2 7344.8

4 .16 4.66 6.01 4.17

:::::~:.:и:1
Sbackelford Base, east end/I

34 42 28.30
34 40 45. 7i 34 40 19.79

0 26 05.61

107 03 20 141 28 41
30 15 30 IO!J 10 43

0 27 18.01
0 25 44.119

!

210 14 49

289 08 28
289 27 31 108 40 45

............... . Shackelford ..... , ... .. Shackelford .......... .
Weиt B""e .......... ..

36;\7.3 6381.6 38"2.4
2и499.~

I

3999.5 6978.6

2.27
3.97
2.41 1.55
3 и .'i4

109 28 53 288 39 52 172 57 2!l 236 10 48 120 43 15 74 06 39 166 !I.~ 23 227 ~9 37 137 06 42 gg 32 03
359 40 32

424.5.; 2733.J
62:l7 .6

North 1Iaikert1 lsland иии , и

34 42 41.51
34 41 43.5.5

0 23 48.69

3&l 57 13 56 12 41 300 42 08 254 04 51
346 25 03 48 00 24

Shsckelford ........... .
West Bue иииииииии , иии

5<03.91 6410.4 3486.1 5031.7 3784.3 2836.7 3640.7 4649.7 2677.9 5140.0

7010.2

3.93

FortMa.con ииииииии..иииии
Guthries и , ииииии , , иииии , ии

0 29 15.77 0 27 52.93 0 30 53.16 0 :JO 52.56

WиstBa.e ............ . Lynch ............... .
West Base иииииииииииии Fort Macon ииииииииииии

3812.3
5502.5

ll.17
3.13

34 42 45.15

4138.4 3102.l
3981.4 0084.8

l!.46 1.76 2.26 2.69
1.66 3.57

Arendell,, ................ .
Maffitt ................... . Fi.shermnn's Lookout иииии

34 43 10.11
34 41 43.20
34 4110.24 34 42 19.09

317 05 47 279 30 20
179 40 32 287 56 21

FortMa.con ........... ,,
Gutllriea................ .

Arendell ............ ..

WestBa.se ............ .
Guthries ................ . Maffitt ............... .. Arendell ............. ..

107 Ml 23 342 44 31 280 28 47 285 17 06 185 22 10
233 49 16 307 54 44
317 33 02 120 18 04

6277.J

Ol!l28.s )
3349.2 6094.8
6513.7 3158.2 2679.1 3972.6

02717.23 0 27 07.37
0 26 00.30
02916.79

162 44 51 100 30 49
105 19 15 5 22 16

3002.6
5.'i73.3

1.90
3.46 3.70 1.86

Ct1rrot Island Signal иииии , .

\\,.est Base .иииииииииии ,

5956.4 2888.0

M;ddle Marsh ............ . Fon Macon Flag-stall'иииии
Beaufort Academy Spire и.

34 41 32.611

5!l 50 00 127 55 48 137 33 57 300 16 56

34 41 43.08 34 43 03.17 34 43 14.56

I

WestB ..e ........... .. Guthries ииии.ии.ииииии

2449.9
363-l.7
:!6.13.6

1.52 2.26

I Arendel! ............ .. I
Arendel! ............. ..

\\'est Base .............. .

3501.l
2768.6 3771.8 3428.6

3973.6 3828. 7
3027. 7

2.26
2.18

0 !IS 25.14
0 28 38.50

27 42 38 93 15 39

Fort Macon ........... .
Arendell ............. .. Fort Macon ии.ииииииии. West Bue .ии.ии.иииии. Maffitt ............... ..
WeatB&l8 .. ., ........ . Arendell ............. ..

207 42 09 273 14 15
267 41 47 198 41 03
218 03 23

4124.7 3749.4 3"237 .s 4663.0 0014.1

1. 72 il.34 2.13 1.84

Beaufort Steam Saw-mill,

иI

18 41

87 43 04
I).{

2Б160.5
4264.0
~4~.8

::~=-=~~~:1!
pelt.

0 l25 34.70

38 04 2ll

78 00 13

258 52 12
159 47 40

I
1

2.tss
s.12 ll.9'J

34 43 oe.76 w.o 28 21.1i;
1

339 47 04 90 37 S7

41195.0
~-4

513-1.3 I

2<0 36 :11

Cl12.9

11.39

32*

REPOR'f OF TlIE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPIIICA.L POSITIONS.

Section V.-Savannah River.
T

Sketch E, No. 4.
Back uimuth. Distance. DistancelDiиtance.

Name or slBtion.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

o

/

11

C!

I

If

Metru.

Beaufort,
house.

comm.andant's

S!33 38 55 93 18 29

Guthties ..иии. ........
Maffitt ....иии.и.......

53 39 56
273 17 48

3399.9 1835.6 1087.4 4704.0 4388.5 6600.7 5717 .2 47.7

:ms.o
200"'.4

Yn...U.

Miles. 2.ll 1.14 0.68 2.92

Phenix................... MaffiWaEastBaae ........ Maffitt's West Baae....... Bogue Signal............. Fish Hut, west end of
Carrot island.

34 40 46.99 34 40 34.94 34 40 44. 70 34 41 48.54 34 42 07.10 34 43 07 .4'1

0 !IS 00.71

2il 58 34

111 36 38
0 26 44.67 118 48 39 108 27 21 108 23 35 226 <12 09 275 17 36 214 59 15
35 15 45 113 46 51
343 40 36 92 45 42

Weиt Base............. Maffitt................

91 58 58 1191 35 00

1и89.2 5144.2

Fort Macon............ Maffitt. и .. и .. и .. .. и и и и Maffitt................. West Base... и и.. и . .. и . Maffitt................. Areodell. .. и . и и .. и и и .. и WestBase ............. Gutbries .............. .
FortMaeon .... .и...и..

298 47 13 288 25 00 288 Ql ~I 46 42 10

4799.l 7273.0

2.73 4.13 3.55 0.03

0 27 19.38
0 :fl 00.31
0 26 08.37

6252.2 52.2 1949.2
33:;4.9

l
I

95 18 16 34 59 :i4
~15 15 05 293 45 a-2

17s;J.4 3067.8
3069.0 2908.0
269'.l.7

l.11 1.91
1.91 1.81 l.&7 1.07 0.78 3.84

3356.2 3180.l 2944. 7 1884.4

Thoroughfare !lfarsh.. .и ии Buoy .....................

0 29 45.51

163 40 53

i

Arendell ............... \
WestBase .......и..... Maffitt ................ .

2724503
3 32 50

1723.2

34 40 04.89 W.O 27 21.08

183 3'.l 48 119 23 07

299 21 07

126:1.0 6176.5

1380.1 67M.4

1

Section V.-Savannah River.
Latitude. Longitude.

Sketch E, No. 4.

Name or station.

Union Ferry North Base.I 32 06 36.68 C&Wieway. South Baee 32 05 35.81

1

o

I

If

o

r

r1

81 0-2 36. 77 81 03 06.90
20-2 50 36 Nm th Baae ,, и .... .. .. и 22 50 52

CbevL ....................
Daniell ии.. ииииии ии.....и

иi

2034.6 2740.8 31G!i.7 1660.8 2.!67 .9
3193.4 2110.8

~.o

UIS

32 06 24.49

1 32 06 31!.l!O
32 84 57 .88

I

81 04 34.<12 81 03 09.00
81 01 59.85

303 tl9 35 263 02 52
358 18 12 BO 51 34

South Base.... .. .. .. и и .Nurth Baae.... .... .... South Baae.... ... и .. .и Cheves... и .. и и и и .. и .. и North Baae.... и и и и .. .. South B...,.... и .. и и . .. South Base .......... .. Cheves ................ .
Daniell ................. . Fort Jackson.и.иии , ииии
Fort Jackuon........ ... ..

123 10 22 83 03 5S 178 18 13 260 :;o 49 342 21 09 303 35 :i4 69 01 07 21 37 31 44 05 42 83 17 53
90 15 44 26 47 30
47 54 07

2997 .3 3397.2 2034.9 !WlO.l
3492.ll 2308.3

1. 70
l 93

l.17 1.43
1.97 1.31 2.27 l.88 3.16 3.35

Fort Jacl<80n ........... ..

16'2 21 29 123 36 30
248 59 58

Savannah ExchalJCe.. и .. .

32 04 53.36

81 05 16.85 81 05 24.18
81 03 35.16

ro-19.4
3019.1
5094.1

3990.9
3301.5 5570.9

201 37 09
224 04 30 263 16 ll4 270 14 53

lilaTilllnab,Presbyterianch. spin"
Fig Island Light-boUH. .. и

32 04 37.:J!I
32 04 58. 24 32 05 22.32

539-t.9
3396.6
SIS>6.0
2499.0

5899.7

1!732.8
3714.4 4847 .6 3193.2 4107 .e 3892.4

200 46 li9
264 36 46 227 53 iM 259 30 :P

N ortb 118i1e ........... .
Poutb Base .............. . Chevee ииииииииииииииии

1.55 ll.11
2.75 1.77 2.34 2.21 2.14 1.48

&eam !law Mill..........
Pennyworth Chimney..... Flag in Tree... и и и и .. и ии .. Daniell'и Tall Chimney...

81 05 55.24 81 113 22.51

84 38 15

4432.8

32 06 15.17 32 07 52. 79 35 05 38.32
32 04 15.07
32 05 34. 77 3'l 07 !27.00

288 49 18

Soutll Base ........... . Chev.................. .

Daniell............... ..

108 :;o 30 79 31 43

3756.3 3559.3

81 03 13.30
81 03

398 01 29 357 15 57 138 02 03 208 16 311
222 02 17

Daniell ............... .
Cheves и...ии....ии.и..

218 00 46 177 15 59 318 01 37 28 18 49 42 02 4l 347 06 09 270 30 35 304 59 W 162 13 34 118 43 38 171 51 33 120 10 14 148 42 51 1115 29 16 132 42 511

!l36l. 7
1912.6 20'24.8
1775.4 2.>51.1 3514.0 3324.7

3452.1

!l58!2.7
2091.6 2214.2 1941.5 2789.8
3842.8

:ms.1

45.631

l.19
1.!Jll

Daniell ........... ., ... .
Fort Jackson и...и ....и. South Bose .......... .. South Baae........ .... North Bue. .. .. и.. .. .. Cheves.. .. и и .. .. и и и .. ..

Habenbain'и

Hou&e.

Wumowiq

Bl 02 45.191

167 06 Ill

1.10 1.59 2.18 ll.06
2.~

Shad'и 0111 Chimney......

81 00 52.88

90 31 46 125 00 15 342 13 21 l!96 42 40 351 51 17 300 08 50
:f!B 41 47

3635,8

Joo. H1111er'1TallChimney.
Hamilton'и Chimney...... King.....................

81 04 :>7.97
81 O.') 47.30 !il 07 17.93

Da11iell и .. ... .. .. и .. и ..
8avannah Exchange.... Daniell и .. .. .. и и и .. и и .. Savannah Excban1e.... North Baae.... .... .... Daniиll... ии и .. .. и .. и .. и

202\.8 3:256. 7

2211.0 3001.4
6161.6 51l47.4

1.26

32 07 5t.46

5634.4
4798.4

3.Sll ll.118

3'l 07 411.80
ll2 08 41.06

6U0.7

285 :Ill 46

76411.ll 7000.ll

6682.5 8361.6 6201.3

3.91>
4.75
3,5Q

Smilll., .. .,..... ... .. ....

81 O.? 48.01

312 41 115

5670.7

353 21 16

SaYlllUlllh F..xcballge....

173 ill 33

77ll0.8

4.311

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*33

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPIIICAL POSITIONS.

Section V.-Sa1,annalt Rirer.
Name or station.

Sketch E, No. 4.

Latitude.

I!,

'"""'"'"и

I
l

A"ии'"и

To

'"""~

----------,-----0

f

ff

Potter ииииииииииииииииии.

32 09 04.87 I 81 08 46.73 I 32 09 57.73 Bl 06 45.77 SI 09 10.BO

I

- - - - - ---------i
0

I

1 . . . . """"'"

!rnии~и
1

'1'

Di,tance. llistance.
f

I
\

I

II

278 s~ 20 317 19 34 3-27 20 41 6:-.! 49 07
286 20 57
;;47030~

' 1 I ~mith ................. 1

King иии.ии.ииииии ,....

9R f,.j .'i.> l:J7 20 21
147 21 12 2.J.-:2 413 0~{ H<; 2-2 14 1670321 209 01 00 157 JG 49 I76 29 Ji
;;,

'

If

I
/

i--------и--!tfehes

47:19.~ 31:J3.5

51,,;1 4 :l754.8
3896.~

raTd~

}.files.

!
t

2.!4 2.l:J

H ey,vard. , ииии.иииииииии ,
Drakie

иииииииииииииииииии!
ииииии!
I

32 10 33.94,

I
1

I
I

Smith................. Potter.................
Heyward.............. Potter...........

I

2~04.8

3SQ2.8

3067.21
43.'l0.1
307~.3

2.:n

1.74
2.46 1.75

3959.6 2814.9 3913.0
4~1t.9

Argyle .....ии.ии...

32 12 !25.04 [ 81 07 58.:l'l

r.

::::a:r~~-.-.:: :: : ::::::I
Onslow Tree иииииииииииии
Taylor иииииииииииииииииии Manigault s Mill ........ .
1

i

32 12 37.321 32 09 00.42 'I

810919.69
81 07

I 320953.:1.1\
32 10 26.8;;

810813.64!

37.861' 281 ::~:: :~~,:; ~.::и.и.::-.и.:::~:::: 1 ::~: ;:::e,::::::::::::::::: 2100~0~
41 54
~

I j

29 01 39 3<!7 I6 IO
3:>6 29 32

Drakie и..иии.иии. , ии.. Heyward ииииииииии.и.. ,
llrakie иииии.ии.и.иии

4279.1 5.119.2 4lfi;J,'.l
:.

2.-13 3.06

1

i 1

38!17.l
:::;::

2.36

'tll

lU! 42 52

29J!J.5

3"214.6 ,и

::::;II ::::
1.83 J.07 1.21 2.27 2.24 2.16 1.89 2.Rfl 2.16
1.3:2 1.62
O.Rl 0.73

:ID0918 129 5~ 43

1 1

Drakic ииии иии и ииии .....

309 5:3 13

1726.0 1951.2
:1664.7 3tHФ3

1Ri'7:..1/ :1133.8 J
3!1;;o.b \

3'2 IO 15.75 \ 8I 06 54.3'3 II

I

5.1 26 33 9~ 55 03

Potter .и.иииииииииии... \ Dralt1c ................
1

23:! 25 33 2;e 53 51
2'J3 :J3 :17 274 06 30

4007.ll

I
J'

81 07 I5,04

j'

43 34 26 94 07 32 372309 75 56 51

Potter ииииииии.иии иииии' Drakie и.иииииииии , ии.и i Potter .ииииииииииииии.и ! Drakie ииииииииииии--ииi Drakic ииии

3485.0 3040.3 4.514.8 3-r;-i.4 2126.B 2614.8 1310.7 !171.9 28-27 .1 4617 .4 29-20.6 40:J5.6 3,J08. O 5988.I 5733. 4 6637 .6 5o6rl.6

3Bll.l 33-24.8

Red Mil! ................ . Mulberry Grove Tree., и. ,.
\Vinckler's Chimney .ииии.

3'illOl.35, 810702.10

2172-213 255 55 43

4937.2f 37fJ9 .иi'J \

3:2 11 42.0-2 \ SI 09 24.39
3n ln
4
.;.&.

II.~ II
-.14

3;,o 21 49
239 32 54 12i3'909 248 52 30 38 06 36
75 2':! 18 111 14 JO

81 08 иn,05
"tV

Argyleииииииииии Pritchard .и.и....ииии.и Argyle иииииии.ииии , . , и Fort Jacltson ииииииии

ииииииииииииi ииииии1

170 21 56
59 33 40 3073848 68 fol 52 218 06 01
2.>5 2-0 47 291 13 15

2.1"5 8 I
2lo;i4и;.9.3:.и 45 .-..:

I

12~1.51и

Proctor и , иииииииииииииии , l 3-2 06 10.11 1 81 00 53.31
Rock Point .и.и.иииииии.и.
3:2 05 35. 77 \

ии1

3091.6
5049.4

80 59 09.47

Cooper иииииииииииииииииии
MeQueen ииииииииииииииии

:t! 03 45.00
3.l!
~2

I 81 00 32.15
80 57 01.83 80 .54 59.45 80 53 15.s.;

Fort hekson . .. . и и ... и Proctor................

212 29 34 134 l:.! 24 146 01 !4 105 49 14
99 03 06 29 17 44 48 110 5J 12
};,O 17

Rock Point ииииииииииии Fort Jackwn иииии.ии.. ,

I

I 3W3.91и
4 ~ . ~и 3~(1 " 1~ 3

1.76
2.~7

l.8I

32 :lO 18 314 11 37 326 00 lfi 28'i 47 22
279 00 .'\3 219 16 :J!J
3:WJ: 16 5.'l

2.51 1.99
3.73

54.56

Rock Point и.ииии ииииии Cooper и..ииии.и.ииии. и 1 Rock Point и и и ии и и . . . . и McU.ueen и.ииии.и.ии.и 1
Norhm ииии иииии .......

6048.31 6009. 9
554~.9,

3.511
3.1~

Norton иии.ииииииииииииии.
Fort Pulaski иии.ииии , иииии

32 05 01.93 32 01 41.04
3-2 04 52.49

I

7258.

71

4.12

i

McGtueen ии.иииииииии '
Norton................ rort Pulaski........... Fort Pulaиki.. ии и .. ии ии ll.cQueen и.....и...и.и Fort Jackson.......... Proctor................
1

290 53 U 273 51 39 191 5o ill 278 05 13 20;;4135 2.;o 5:0 37 2 20 47

.71 63'lii .o
G7.i7

7:190.0 t

4.;)()

69:l9.8 /
4706.2 ,

3.95

Mungen ...иииииииии...и.и
Tybee Light ............. .

80 52 15.71
80

3-2 01 21.35
3il 05 16.iO

"░

9:l 5-1 06 11 58 53

4303.5 6103.9

667;;.o

I

2.67
3."i!J.

33,23

98 06 39 1054501 70 56 11 182 20 46

4310.0 10500.6
1774.B 1646.2

4il:l.3 \ 11;;81.6 1940.9 lo00.2

2.6S

s.r.B
I.JO 1.02 2.41 0.67

McKay's House, Flag иииии Flag in Pine Tree иии.иии..
Flag in PiilmP-tto Tree иии.

81 00 55.88
81 00 35. 71

I
II

3:2 Oil 41.67

~ ~ ~~
12'1 56 211 26 22 29
72 21 IS 105 33 17

~~~~~~~~~.::~:::::::
Fort Iacltson иии.иии..и Cooper ................ . Fort Jackson ииииииииии I>anielJ ..... , ........... .

~~ ~ ~
308 [;5 :l'J

i~~ti
3128.8 301.7 1442.3 627-1.4

ii~~:~

32 03 M.03
32 05 41.63 32 04 44.39 32 04 29.45

81 00 27.04
80 59 18.40

206 22 26
252 19 52 285 31 14

3421.61 32\J.9
4858.0 6001.5 52-26.8 1760.0 6266.6 2588.0 1и24.0 6177.9

1.93 0.19
2.78 3.90

Iron Beacon, South Carolma.

Iron Beacon, Long Island.
Wooden Bea.con ииииииииии

80 .58 58.27 80 58

94 59 !>O
16ll 28 59

Fon JRrk1mn ........... .
n~kPoiut

.......... ..

2i4 58 14 349 28 53
278 46 24

Square Beacon иииииииииии

32 0-2 21.58

l so .53 29.99 I

23.891

4779.6 16W.4
5730.t 2Jti6.6
)3(1-2.2 5649.3

I
I

2.97
U.99

913 48 IS 149 40 30
343 ~7 50 100 2.2 28

Fort Jackron иии.ииии.и 1 RC>CkPoint ииииииииииии 1 Fort Pulaski ииии , ииии.и 1 McQueen.

:t.!9 40 116
163 27 57 2$0 20 36

I

!

ииииииииииииt

I

3.56 1.49

0.81 3.51

34:*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED SrATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section Vl.-Florida Reef.
'
Nallle or l!ltatio-O.
Latitude. Longitude. Azimuth.

Sketch F, Xo. 3.

To station-

Back azimuth.I Distance. Distance.

I
I

I

Cape Florida ииииии.ии , иии

25 39 52.18,

0 00 00.00

"

,.

r

11

Soldier K,.y .ии...ии..и.ии и / !25 35 23.23 W.O 00 18.il-2

1

ииииииииииииии -~~~~l~:.:~::~::::::r иии~и~и~~ии
183 30 49 !155 :,.i 10 296 O'.! 54 136 33 49 18Y :2.'> 15 200 4~ JO 267 08 48 187 39 45 186 12 23 140 28 07 199 12 32
1.51 51 26 221 44 5-2
~

I . . .,

I=
Jlfile..

,и~~~~~~, ).,и:.~r.~: . иииииииии
ffl91. l
11873.8 J2261.9 14740.3 5380 .6 12199.l
14477. 7

Bbonl Pointииии.и.и..ии.и.

i 25 38 18.35
25 :J2 30.60 25 32 07 .5J

I
I

9066. 9
J29~и1.8

5.15

0 06 52 .97

Ragged Key, (1) ..........
Black Poinl ..............

I

Cape Florida .иии , ии , и . и Soldier Key............

7:> 57 09 l!ti 05 44 316 31 12 9 23 30 20 43 17 87 12 31 7 40 09 6 12 34 320 2.5 16 19 J3 14

J3409.3 Jfil19.5 5884. I 13340.6 15832.4 H867 .3 6988.2 19011.B Rll!ll.6 20012.5 4001.5 3600.4 41113.5 7203,5 2999.8

7.38 7.62
9.16 3.34
7.58 9.00

0 00 49.68
00927.60

i

Shoal Point............ Soldier Key........ . . и .
Sti.oal PoJnt иии.иииииии.

Elliott'и Key, (1) .......... / 25 29 04.25 Elliott'и Key, (2) .......... 1 25 24 5L81

!
!

Ragged Key, (1) ........
Soldier Key ..ии....ии.. Ragged Key, (I) ........

0 01 14.43 0 02 51.29 0 04 JB.48

11766.3
1i390.3

7.31 3.97 10.SO 5.11

I
Christmas Point. ииииииии.и

Bin.ck Point и.ии.ии.иии. Elliott's Key, (1) ......

17385.l
8"222.3

I
I

2.5 23 23.09

C8'иar's Creek Bank ......

I

Black Point............ Elliott's Key, (2) ии.иии.
Ch ri!'tma.s Point .ииииии. EIHott's Key, (2) ииииии.
Soldif'r KP.y, иииииии ииии

3.11 49 13 41 45 30
285 13 33 34e 2-2 23 200 13 5.'; 319 49 20

1e:100.2
36Б>9.l
3~9-2.3

11.37 2.27
2.0;';

25 22 54.98 w.o 02 24.83

rn:. 14 21 168 22 34
20 14 30

367V.I

2.28 4.09

Sw..h Channel ........... ! 25 38 44.06 E. o 01 03.40 iI Fowcy Rocks ............. \ Little Soldier Key Channel
2.)

139 49 47
144 J9 37 90 03 24 34 18 54 169 39 27 97 31 J!! 158 57 00 127 46 04 66 58 09 40 01 24 160 '13 31 96 39 01 163 18 00
:l09 00 09 331 43 J8
293 53 26 358 42 JI

Cape Florida ........... Cape Florida ........... Soldier Key и. ,.,,,,, и. ,
Rog~ed

tlc;B7,2 2i4:l.l
1019~.5

I.70 6.34 4.01
l.6l 2.01
4.00

35 23.05

0 03 33 21 0 00 02.54 0 02 34.27

324

270 OJ 44 !!14 18 31 349 39 18 277 29 34 aJ8:;:; 4fi 307 44 39 !!46 56 03
220 00 52 :140 43 10

is

o~

6457. 7
~>85.7

11149.4 7062.0
28~7 .6
3:;29.~

25 33 40.02
25 28 36.80

Key, (1) ........ Soldier Key. , иииии , ии , и

3227.2 6442.S 13399.6 6970.l

Triumph Reef ............
Long Reef. ...............

EUiott's Key, (1) .иииии. Soldier Key ............
Ellintt's Key, (l) иииии.и

704.5.3 146"3.4 7622.3 9767 .1 3497 .6 4522.2

8.33 4.33 5.55 l.99 ll.57 1.68 4.33
4.8:1
3.013

25 26 45.45 E. O 0'2 O'i.86

Elliott's Key, (2)., иии ,. Elliott's Key, (1) ....... ttai:ged Key,(!) ........
EUiott'R Key, (1) иииииии

8931.4
3J98.4 и113'i.2 !mo.s 6%0.l 7780,7 496(1.0
1!966.6 887,7
46fi8.0

Bowell's Bank ииииии , иииии
llacbe'и Shoals ...........
1

l!5 30 23.75

w.o 00 00. 781

25 28 53.95 E. O 00 21.97 25 31 16.00 w.o 01 02.!IS!

Raggoo Key, (J) ........ [

!!76 38 20 :143 17 29
129 01 42 151 43 54 54 JO 178 42 11 14 30 30 26 27 26 280 24 17 333 53 55 :I07 48 14 !il56 29 51 24 59 56 143 07 07
11~

2964.1 76!1.4
5427 .4
3-244.\!

Raned Key, (1!) ..........
Sandи' Cut ............... Old Rbodes ............... Ajax Reef................ Pacific:
~er................

Triumph Reef, .ии , иии ,и I Bache'и Shoals ......... i
Bache 's Shoals .и..ии.и. .Elliott's Key,(!) .......

S.'I08.8

25 29 33.0J w.o 01 15.15
25 20 56.21 w.o 05 00.31 25 24 09.05 E. o 01 24.73 25 22 13.29 E. O 00 53,56

970.6 5104.8 SSM.2 7954.8 11056.3 8699.2 11125.2 2348.4 9754.4

1.84 0.55

194 ao rn 200 26 32 JOO 26 07 !.>3 5.') 03 127 49 50
76 3'2 23

Chrisunas Point ........ Elliott'и Key, (2) .......
Elliott's Key, {2) .иии , ии Elliott'B Key, (1) .иии.

2.00
~.03

80!J6.6
72'14.2

ииI

Elliott's Key, (2)., иииии Old llliodeи ............
Elliott's Key, (1) .......

I
1

10110.3
79.~.B

4.5? 6.28

10173.3
'2147.4 8919.8

6.32
1.33 5.a4 2.35 2.76 2.51 2.79
4.77 0.99
4.69 2.03

4.94

Seag:rape Point , и , и , иииии и l 25 28 00.90 w.o 01 46.92
PointAdelli .............. MargotJlиb Shoals.........
Sawyer'M CoYe., иииииииии ,

204 59 42 323 05 45 200 :JS 20 lb 00 07
18~

Ajax Reef ............. 1 Elliott'и Key, (1) ....... Elliott'и Key, (2) ...и.ии ;

25 27 09.09 25 26 5-2.61 25 25 43.48
25 24 36.0S

0 02 02.17 0 01 21.49 0 02 49.41

20 38 41
197 59 46 2 47 39 21a 58 16
11~ 16 05 161 53 ~

3783.l
4441.0 4045.9 44139.4
767!!.8

4137.0 4856.6
4424.4 4909.5 8390.7 1739.7 86-04.0 3567.5 3741. 7

47 36 33 f>S 55

Elliott's Key, (1) иииииии ~ Elliott's Key, (2) ....... 1 Ajax Reef.............. Elliott'и Key, \2) .......
Pacific Rref.и ,.,, ииииии Ciesar'.s Creek Bank ииии

29-2 14 16 1 53 27
303 55 53 342 26 3!I 101 08 (10 164 48 59 242 05 :lO 5 3o 53
15 Slll 53

15911.9
7S67.8 :ll!&l.3
34'.!l.6 3&J2.7

Prtrel Point иии , , и.ии , ..и ,
Channel !:Hake ............

0 1>2 59.97
0 02 18.37 0 04
55.~9

123 57 32 100 !!8 55

25 23 01.63
25 21 4!Ui6

Chriиtmaи Point..... , ии. Elliott'и Key, (2) ... ,, ии
Cresar~

~~~и
6'! 06 35 l8S 30 51

3841.4
5'l07. 7 1S66.6 4132.3

2.13 2.18

Coml Cove иии.иииииииии.и

Creek Bank ..... Old Rllodиs ............ Old Rhodeи ............ Christmas Point ииии.ии.
Chri3tmBS Point иииииии. Petrel Pointиииииииииии.

4762.l 1432.5
3778.7 l!W.2
lll!<4l.I 1$5.J

!!.96 0.89 2.35 0.55
I. 17 0.77
3.~

Cllsar'и Creek Point ...... , 2.> 22 54.56 Point No .Point. ......... , и
2.:i 21 08.76

0042420

190 18 42

19.5 29 38 IO 18 44
221 37 08 48 21 57

975.7
2056.0
138.1.4

0 03 33.0

Old lllloclea Bank .......... j 25 20 27.57

1

41 37 27 228 2J 42 214 28 20 l'/9 20 l4

w.o 04

16.25

Cret!ar'sCttek Bank ииии / Cllr4tmu Point ииииииии

3-1 29 08 309 !1(1 13

550'2 .2 M00.9

6017.0

a906.3

3.36

OF THE UNITED STATES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.
U:~1TED

*35

STATES COAST SURYEY.-GEOGRAPIIICAL POSITIONS.

Section VI.-Florida Reef.
Name or slatio11.

Sketch F, No.

иa.
Oistancc.

I

Latitude.

Longitude.

I
I,

Azimuth.

J\lasterKиy .иииии.ии.ииии. J 25 23 31.62 Turtle

\\".~ o~ 41~.0l I
O 03

- - . -1

292 38 47 3373635

I --I Christma.~
I
1и

To station-

I

. i 11\ack azimuth.\I !Jiиldnec. iDistance.

jc~sar'5Creekl'oint и..и

Point........

I
1

11Б! 38 57 1573642

1

I

Metrиs.

6t:2.1 . 1233.5!

i
i

Yard.и.
746.0 134.9

Mileи.
0.42 0.77

Reef...............

25 16 52.32 25 19 56. 29 25 20 20. 93 25 19 21. 79 25 16 45.67

10.041

186 27 41 182 <;2 02

Cir.a1и,creek Point .... 1

Elliott's Key, (2).......

6 28 00
2 0-2 IO

112211.8

l47b2.5 j

121!80.6 16143.9 2780.0 814l.O
2056.2 i'J;l.7
IO'l07 .1

6.98
9.l7

Angelfish Creek.. .. и и и и и и и

0 06 02.9'2
0 05 55.22 0 06 22.34 0 08

2'23 30 39 319 29 12
234 44 12

I Old Rbodииии .......... I I Turtle Reef............ !
I ' I Old Rhode. ............ '
Angelfisl1 Creek........

1

43 31 06 J 39 30 26
54 44 36

2"42.1 : 7444 .4 i
1880.3 Ii 788.0 9333. 7
~701.3

1.58 4 .63
1.17

Palo Alto..... и и и и и и и и и и и .
Angelfieh Key.... ии .. и .. . El Camino .......... ,.....

i

15 50 06
22) 20 12 218 17 04

195 50 03
4.5 21 54

0.49
5 .80

1 Cresar's Creek Bank .и , и 1
1
1

Old Rhodes и.иии.ииии.и 1

38 17 39
400024 a:J 55 31 4 56 50 308 59 31 106 33 59 36 22 42 65 .53 JS
9H 51 21

4047.7 101.;8.0
19578.!I
1124~.~

2.30 9.2'2 .>.77
11. 13

Caryиfort Reef Light и...и
Pomt

I

05.631
00.00

25 13 15.25 25 18 00.57

o 03

I

2195758 213 54 12
184 56 26
1~9

lcresnr'sCreekBank .... j Uld Rho<!es.. .. ... . ....

I

14и30.3 0088.S
17903. 7 HJ-285.7 7371. l
67ll .6

16~17.9

01 33

I Cre""''' Creek Bank....

El Camino ............. ,

Perry...............

0 07 22.&4
0 09 36.95

286 3i 11 216 21 4l 245 50 33
279 48 40
!
1

Turlle Reef............ Old Rhodes ............ Turtle Reef............

I
1

6.39 4.58 4.17 7 .37
6.65

8000.9
7339.7

Point Elizabeth...........

25 14 14.68
25 18 54.26 25 12 19.62 25 13 05.60

Jl86':Ul
lO"f'00.7

12972 .2
11708.5

Carys10n Reef Light....
An~elfiиh Koy ...... ииии[

LargQ Nonb... иииии ......
llasin Bank ииииииииииииии ,

0 07 00.41! 0 06 25.01
0 10 24.11
0 11 15.64

2.11 29 47 20 37 06

Point Perry, ...........

51 30 03 200 36 56

1360.8 1765. O

1488.1 1930. I

0.8.5 1.10

m~ ~
211 50 08 281 55 19
208 41 57 210 07 14 2113 45 40 244 38 27
107
3..~

~ric;~!;~:~.t~.::::::::, ~~ ~ ~
Point Ehr.a.beth ........ . B~iu Bank .ииииииииии. 31 50 28 101 57 01 28 42 19 30 07 56 23 46 31 64 40 40
287 32 49

=:~
2501. 8 6840.5

=:~
2735.9 7400.6
3'~.4

~::
J .56

BasinHill ии.ииииииииииии.
Point Mary .............. . '5011nd Point ............ ..
The Elbow ............. .. Grecian Shoals и.иииииии , и , Garden Cove, (1) иииииииии

4.23 l.87 3.42 5.23
6.~

25 11 39.98
25 10 04.78 25 08 32.02 25 07 22.12

Basin Hill ..ии.и.ииииии Point Elizabeth ......... l Point Elizabeth ........ 1 Basin Bank ........... .

3003.4 6503.1

6018.0
9187.:l 10599.9

0 11 37.9"
0 06 15.98 0 08 :J:J.ll
0 11 51.17

!401.2 9692.9
!!45.'i. 9 7007 .5

06

177 55 56
134 02 56 201 23 37 2l.tl 2.5 08
345 53 46

Sound Point ии , иииииии , Basin Bank ........... .
Sonnd Point иии , ииииии. Ba.in Bank ........... . Point Mary ............. Sound Point ......... , и.и Sound Paint ........... . 1
Garden Cove, (1) иииииии

:157 55 52
314 01 37 21 24 3'.l

10340.7 7663.2
7873.2

5.87 4.35
4.47 6.11

7199 ..'i 9&11.0
1759. 9

10750.9
1924 .6 1665.6

25 10 52.7'9
25 09 59,()9 25 09 39.35 25 09 27.05 25 09 54.&4

34 25 2.1 165 5;J 52
31 44 39 82 50 12
3"26 14 24

1523.J 1943.0 1404.3
7:J0,4 1259.9 48.'i9.3

1.09 0.95

Garden Cove, (2).,., .....
Julia bland, (1) и , ....... . Julia Island, (2) ии.ии.ииии.

0 12 27.68

211 44 24 262 49 5l

i

2124.8 153.~. 7 798.7 1377 .8
5314.0

J.21 0.87

0 12 13.18
0 12 49.34 0 12 49.00

146 14 30 231 36 23 212 40 30
211 41 06

Garden Cove, (2) ...... .
sound Point........... . Point Mary ии.и... , ииии.и Garden Cove, ( l ) .ии. , ии Point Mary .......... .. Garden Cove, (l ) .иии , и.

51 36 30 32 U iO 31 41 31
38 5.1 37

0.45 0.78

3.ro

3099.9 '

3300.0
4i\.'i:l.3 !!638.5

1.93
2.61
1.50

Great Mangri>ves иииииии , и.
Point WUlie ............. . Julia. bland,
(~

218 52 57 21!1! 08 09
234 53 08 2112819

42

us

33

!1411!. 7

4163.71
1935.2

0 12 M.90
25 09 08.15

Basin Bank .ииииииииии. Sound Point ........... .

54 5.o 54

31 28 52
25 47 26

........ ..

0 12 07,98
0 14 31 04

!05 47 13
:i.; 27 17

Bound Point иииииииииии ,
Point \Villie .......... .
~ound Point .иииииииии. PointW1me ........... .

'~:~'I
22ll.9
I

14590.5
4515.~

8.29 2.56 l.20 1.37
3.88
J.69

216 26 57
50 59 35

1116.3 2418.8
68~4.0

LaJg<> Sound .ииииии.ииии.

25 07 57.10

230 58 21. 2()1 23 55

81 24 36 79 12 50
3

6210.1 2723.2
11\403.8

29;s.o

Lower Sound Point. , иии..

25 06 18. 73
25 08 55.10 25 02 00.01 25 02 34.6:1

oa

:n.91

259 10 15 163 3B 05

GrP.cian Shoals и , иии.ии Largo Sound .... , ..... .

as

11377.3
3316.3

6.46
I.SS 0.75 0.86

08

303'.l.5

M311иscove ............. . French Ree!......... , и , ..
Dry lloeke иии.иииииииии , и.

0 12 48.35

250 26 50 7 35 37
H7 27 251

Julia lиland, (3) ....... .

Point Willie ииииии.иии.
Lower Sound Point иии.

70 27 07 167 35 34 327 26 07
349 29 .'13

1389.91
9224.8 11400.5
103."l0.8
75&1.5

1199. 7

1311.9 1519.9 10087.9 12467.3

0 11 40.78
0 I:l 47.74 0 13 49.17

169 30 24 1'78 53 12 Hi5 li3 06

Point Willie .......... ..

5.73 7.08 6.42 4.69
1.01
1),94

Point Willie ......... .. Lower Sound Point иии.
Point Willie .ииииииииии. L11.1go Soundии , ....... .

3..58 5;J 09 3;15 02 19

11297.5 6261.4
1776.3

Hull Key иииииииииииииииии J.. esbol ииииии.иииииииииии

25 08 !28.95

200 39 00 60 07 02

110 :ig 23 230 00 i4 307 00
~~

l&l-l.3 1528.2

10/l.2
702.8

115 01 44.53

w.o
1

H

u.'l!l

127 00 33 906 45 16

Lugo Sound .и.иииииии. Hull Key,, .......... .

642.7
1~17.5

0.40

25 45 il6

1609.5

0.94

36*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPIIICAI, POSITIONS.

Section VI.-Ca1~J's Sound.

Sketch F, No. 3.

Name or station.

I

Latit.udP..

Longitude.

Azimuth.

'l'o station-

!lack azimuth

I I
,

=I I=
Distance.
Ynrds. 1:.!-27.0
Ilfefr" 112'2.fl

Petite Coquil!P ............ 1-25_и_0_7_3_0 __-8S-'

iW.~

14 03.20

135 .S8 l;:; 19'"2 23 59

IHull Ke\ ............. ,

Lnr~oSound .......... , J.,1~fi\bOS ииииии ,,,._,,,,,,

:3)) 5K n;~

I

12 24 05
59 05 51} Ki O:l 30

18.!~.3 1!35.7

21J00.5 1242.0 1 ,
lJO"J.2

Mile<. 0.70 1. 13 0.6:J 0. 71

Elba ..................... / 25 07 27 ,70

!
I
i
I

0 14 43.60
0 13 14.66 0 13 45.65
0 17 14.03

239 ll5 43 ~'6J 03 13
345 54 4[,

Julia Island, (4) .......... ' 25 07 46.9-0 i
Julia Island, (5) ..........
1
1

2l7 3U 24
339 40 27

25 07 l:J

. I

rn и

41 09 31

I I I
I

}007.9

Pcute Caqu1llc..... ....

I French Reef........... Pomt1"Yilh~ ........... f

I

I
I'

165 5.5 2:\ ;J;30:t2 159 41 20 2~1 09 09 и

1J825,l iI 10813.3 908.3. 9Y:l.3! 10077.3 I ll02il.2 II 2!:l4.5 I 243-J.6

6. 72 0.56 6.26 l.3e
5.15 6.17

1 1 oint Charles., ии , ии , ии , ии

25 04 30.86

29:; 29 21 2% 35 16
Jf>J 03 OL

I

French Reef. .......... 1 Lower Sound Point. ... 1 1 French Reef........... ': DrvRocks .и.и....ии.и. ! Po;nt Charleи .......... 1 Lower Sound Point....

115 31 42 1153709
343 0-J 17

!0~48.6

8275.4

It316.9 9049.7
J086K.;J

I'

6.43

Pickle's Reef..... , ии , ии ,,,\ 24 5921.88'

0 15 30.63

Excelsior ................. 1 25 05 2'2.5!1
Rodriguez Bank .......... ( 25 02 51.04

o 16

:12.21

I

186 34 08 241 39 03
309 2a
~o

6 34 30

9938.4 12910,0

14118,0
397B.9 II 890-J.6
3378 .0 r.357,l

3.0-2

Lower Sound Point.... Dry Rocks ..... ,. .. ,, .и Point Charlee, ... ...... Excebnor .и..и.ии.ииииии 1 LowerSoundPoint ..... E.<celoior...... """ ...
Lower t:ound Point.,.. 1 Excelsior ............... / Excelsior ии.ии. , ....... , Avcrnu................

61 39 51 129 24 55
6 07 33 17 51 07

3G38.4 6140.9 I
3089.0 48D8.7 1871.B
II.

0 17 25.79
0 15 38.10

1811 07 2'8 197 ,')() 44 295 5,1) 14

I
1

2.'16 5.06
1.11'.l 3.04

Tartarus .....и..и..ии....
A\ienlufi ................... .

25 06 45.37
25 06 ll.35

30 4;; 48

1155540 210 45 25 84 47 20 205 27 46 237 36 ;J() 2~4 22 02

2963.~

2050.2
3'2-11.21

1.16 1.85
1.55 1.05 1.39 0.7::.

0 16 06.71
0 15 24.73

264 4t 42 2J 27 57
57 3"7 2.)

2498.1 !66l,6 2238. 7 1214.l

2731.8 1811.l 2448.2 1327.7

Styx .................... .. 25 06 01.55
Sands' Point и.иииии.и.иии. I 25 30 08.37
Black l'o1nt ииии.и..ии.ии. / 25 32 07,51

I

104 2-J

2()

I

0 2 02.90
0 927.64 286
2~

ииииииииииииииииииииии ............... иииииии
24

Turkey Point ииииии , иииии и Rubicon Pomt .......... ..
Long Arsenicker Key., ии.
Card's Point и.... , ....... .

I

Sands' Point...........
Black Point ...... , .. , 8nnds' Point ..ии ,......

106 28 36

12W6.4 10186.4 14613.6

14157 .8 ]]i95.7 15981.0

5.04 6.70 9.0B

25 26 17 .13

0 9 39.89 0 5 :itl.39 0 8 38.74
0 ll 12.39
0 8 04.83

lRI 48 43 240 49 57
156 37 52

J 48 48 60 53 14

25 23 45 .24 25 22 34.43
25 19 20.43

123

3~

3<l

Black Point..,,. , ,. и .. Turkey Point,.........
Ruhicon T'oint., ...... .

336 36 09 303 36 '12
67 47 16 345 59 11

16840.5 843<!.8
5147 ,.'5
7U58.3

18-116.3 92'28.4
6285.3 'til~. 7
J37fl0.fi

10.46

5.25
3.57 4.39
7.8:1

247 4fi 55 165 59 3'l
229 43 29

Turkey Point .и , , ии , .. .
Rubicon Point иии..и... Long Arscnicker Key ..

215 43 56
F8 48 27

и1

49 4.'i 56
35 45 !J2
21i8 47 07

12601.5 7:J54.2

8042.3
10001. 7и 5:!47. l 60-24.2

4.:J7

Snapper Point иииииии , ... , ,

25 19 24 ,01 25 19 36.35
25 21 47 .12

208 ░'1 26 8 18.42
0 g 39.03
0 ll 04.46

Card's Point , и и и, и , .ии , , Rubicon Point .ии..ииии

28 34 33
264 14 24 254 04 45 150 44 56 210 o-i 11
23 01 41 53 24 46

5246.4 9146.l 4RR9.5 5508.7

57:rr .a

3.26 5.68 3.04 :J.42
!LAA
!3.'i4

Pumpkin Key .... , ииииии ,,
Maugrove Point и , ии , , и , ии

84 15 39 174 04 54
!l.10 44 22 30 o-:i 51
203 {)() 39

Card'a Point .......... . Long Arsenicker Key и..
Pumpkin Key ииии.иии , Card's Point .......... .
Long Anenicker Key .и Snapper Point ииии.ии..

4611.9 0'213.9
10119 ,4 6258.2

5043. 5 5701.8

Comorant l'oint .......... \ 25 17 22.75

11394.2
6843.7 4729.6

6.47
3.89 2.69 5.54 3.10 4.27

233 23 20
22.5 47 :l7 249 27 CB

Wttle Card"' Point ... , ....

25 17 42.43

0 13 03.25

Card's Point .ии.и...и..
Snapper Point и..и. , , , и

45 48 24
G9 29 16

432.5 ,0 8912 .3
4981\.1 li883.8

9746.2 54m.s 75';!7 .9
8940.0 5803.3
4324.8

Mahogany Point ........ ..
Turtle Point ............ .

25 23 3.';.02
25 25 07.35

0 9 34.45 0 10 06.55
7 49.89

178 l.'i 02 267 24 34
288 01 23 332 26 59

Turkey Pnint ииииииии , и

358 15 (){)
87 26 20 108 03 22

Rubicon Point ииии , ии.и
Rubicon Point иии.иии , и
Long Arsemck.er ииииии.

15i! 27 37
f9 42 28 182 58 53
334 46 14

8175.I 5300.8
3954,8

5.08

3.:JIJ
2.46

North Arsenickcr .ии.ии , ии West Arsenicker..... , и , ии Broad Creek ииии , , и , ии , , и ,
Bbark Point ......... , ... .
Angelfish Creek ........ ..
Old Rhodes, (I) ......... .

25 ll3 44,41
25 24 17.62 I

269 41 27 2 58 59
154 46 41 0 23 27

Rubicon Pnint .ии.и , .и , j Snapper Point. ........ I

0 8 37.97

Turkey Point .... Long Arsenicker .и , и , ии
h иии

иI

8022.9
4060.3 3175.3
50.1'!.3 59.59.5 482.'i.9

8773.6
4440.2

4.99
2.52 1.97

180 23 27 3)5 41 49 284 22 4J
41 ir.130

3472.4
5503.2 6.517 .2

25 20 58,98
25 20 37.63 25 20 06,30

o

6 12.56.

I

12.5 42 50 104 ~4 13 221 51 41 215 41 07

Long Arsrnieker ..ииии. Mangrove Point .и , ии ,.,
Lonp- Anienicker, ии..и.
Ma.ugrove Point и.и , иии.

3.13 3.70 3.00
1.64

0 10 33.96
0 7 13.98

5277.5
2878, 7

3.'l 41 31
332 31 29

2632.4
5l:ri. 0 5106,-0 7009.0

152 32 03 127 25 12
!l9 51 32 34 03 .5,5

Long Arsenicker. o . . . . Mangrove Point ... , ииии Bnapptr Point ииииииии. Pumpkin Key ......... . Snll!'P"r Point .. и и .. и и . Pumpkin Key..........

li617.7

307 24 09

6583.8
78C'3,0 77:l0.4

3.19 3.17

25 22 46.69

0 5 56.81

209 50 37 214 0'2 M

1rno.2
6"78,4

4.47
4.3!1

OldRhodce,(2) ..........

252223.98 W.O 557.80

W 40 54 ;n 19 2ti

212 40 0.1 217 18 29

6485.0

7193.9 7091.S

4.09
4.03

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

"CXITED ST.ATES COAST SGitYEY.-GEOGHAPilICAL I'OSITIONS.

Section Vl.-Card's Sound.

Sketch F, ,_Yo. 3.

------',
Na.me or f::.tation.
11

Latitude.

I Longitude.
l

l'-I',

-A-z-in_1_u-th_._

To station-

- - - - - - - - - L _ _ _ _ _ ,_ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ :_ _ _ _ 2.'i 17 00.30 'i\V,0 12 30.40 20i 52 40 ~40 17 11
1 1 Card's Pnint ииии , ,, .ии ! t:511a~1per l'oint .ииииииии

Jnack azimuth.~' Di,tance.,: Di.ta.nee. i!Distance.
2i f.3 t:J
60

Barnel'i' P .>int и , , и , ... , , иии

j

и1

I

rn o;;

510.-,.:-: :
BJ.J2. 7
9;J;;;J.IJ

Jfiles.

2.00 ti.31

East

' Arsenicker ииии.и.... ; i
t

2j '2-2 2-L47

O 7 5,1.6.3 ' \

68 30 57 4-4 10 aa

ij MangrmTe.Point. и.и.и..
Card's Point...........
1

248 30 12 2:..!-1 18 13

3136.6
7914.z
3997. 7 3946.3 244.1.6 6.518.2

i

~rJO.I

N);~.8

:

Monday Point ............ :
Wednesday Point .и ,, иии.

25 17 45.34
25 18 10.05

0 9 34.97

I'

1:37 02 40.
219 4:l 09 21.S 08 26 169 08 30

: Snapper Point

Card's Poiut....... .... 1
Hи . . . . . .

!
!

I

31' 01 ;,s
39 42 48
3!i 08 47 349 08 11

4371.8 4315.5
2f;'7~.3

2.48
2.-15

fi\'V.O

8 55,11

I

I Snapper Point и..и.и... 1 I Mangrove Point ии.ииии. i

1.52
4.U5

71:18.l

Sectwn

IX.-Cou~t

southwest qf Galveston.
To
~tation-

Sketcli L
:Back azimuth-'. Dbtance. ! Di.stance. iOje:tancc.

Name or otation.

I
1

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

---l 1 ,,
rn
12.6'2

I I
I

I ,

o

1

11

1

o

,

11

\

I
198 34 05,
117 57 Б>2 0 43 h5

.-J>-r---i--1-и_ds_l __ M_'_l_
1
1

, ииии ',: ииии иaиrи и и и. \ bland East Dase .ииииии.и. / 29 1252.581иW.6 54 38.11 .............. !........................ ,i . и. и и и и и ии и иии ', ииии 'ии'."' I
1

t,.

'1иirginia Point ииии.иииииии ,i 29

6 5212.4-1
6 58 53.86

18 3517
297 55 47 lt:SO 43 52
2305055

Black Point ............. .

2914 51.60

Battlesnak.e и , иииииииии.и ,
Oyster Creek .и , иииииии , ии l\farket-house in Galveston.
llelle ................... . l\ilorris и......и....иии.ии.
Velasco ..................

28 58 37.69

7 l4 05.00 7 16 24.98

J~:Jl90l

I lslandEastllase ....... : I J,landEaиtllaиe ...иии. 1:_
Highland Bavou.. иии.и.

l~H~.91

18392.71
12(1-21.3\1
~.4

10.4:;
4.1'6 7.29

,8]1.6 ! P!i49.l I 11:41.l \ 12839.7 i
1099-2.71' 8054.7

1Cottonwood.и........... i

28 59 30.87 29 18 26. 70
29 14 17.46
29 IV 53.98

20;") 20 16 2.51 01 10

1

IPeninsula ..............

I
f

3rn0'2
505"247

6.f3
a.UL

6 46 13.93

9B 20 12 52 5715

6 51

03.691

l~ ~~ ~
159 3.S 4'..l 228 53 12
185 38 59 2:.?7 23 2':.?

I Virginia Point .......... j lslandEa.иtBa.e ....... I I ~\':~~iE!'s~i~t~~:::::::i
Black Point .....ии.... j Island Eai.;;t Base ....... !
1

: Cottonwood и.ии.ииииии. ! I Pcninmla .............. !

I'; 17 232 5:l 09

~и~

25 21 35 7! 04 10

10331.9 I12!t8.7 10610.6 ( 11603.4

~

I
I

fL4'2 6.60

9775.7 I 17060.l i 1"656.4

10000.41

fi.07 10.6U

6 57 13,06

Draz.os ииии.ии.......

::::::::::::::::::1
Jlernard ...................
Tom .ииииииии.ииииииииииии

I

I I

.l ~9 :H ;~1 48 5-t 28
5 39 09 47 24 40

ij:!g ~; ~~

~~:~; 1~~1~:i I 7?0~1.5 &>:J.'l.8 \
5.Xi4.3: 60i4.0
5662.l ! 5905.I 1 fi62"J ..1)
s;i;3,~
)

~:~1
4.85 3.4.l

28 5C 27.e5
28 57 33.07 28 54 47.50

7 16 45.55

j Rattlesnake ............. \

! Oyster Creek .......... J

7 19 49 .65

1 1 1

236 46 43 ! CreP.k и.......ии иI 29! 65 31 j' Velasco................

Op~ter

56 48 23 111 57 00

fil91.!J 1 1 &t57.6 1 .1 / 5f<;6.6

72~2

J ..::;2 3.67
4 .12

I

3.34 3.26 3.:!il
4.!J6 4.9tJ

7 19 22.22 7

2.13 f>5 ;,s 171 42 35
2-19 :H 54 288 ~ 36

28 56 09.95

:a oa.13

l\Jupiter, Rrazos.~~:~~~~~~~~~~~~ ......... ,...
II

Velru;eo..... ..... ииии. Brazos
*,

r.3 .57 13 351 4:l 21
69 36 57 108 25 53

5150.ti
7340.l 8035.5

5248.~

5739,31

563'J.5
P-026.9 1 8787 .3 \
ll5:l2.3 \ 9123.4,

28 51 41.94
28 57 29.21

7 24 49,41 7 15 35.13
7 211 27 .23

2:17 JO 44 188 31 34 160 11 57 45 16 26

Jupiter................

Bryan..................

5'; 13 23 8 31 56 340 J1 33 22'> 15 &I

Hl:\45.6 8342.8

6.5.5 5.18 2 .47 1.67

1
McNeel .................. , 28 53 46.23
Mound .................... \ 28 54 51.73

Ov>ter Creek........... Velasco................

39~1. l 2684.0

43:>..1.6 I 2935.1 1

I

243 11 09 296 55 3iJ
45 JO 19 117 27 34

!Bryan................. Bernard...............
j Bryan.................
1и

63 l:l 45 116 57 46
~97

981.5.5 8+43.9
828.5.6

10733.9 [' 9234.0
9060.9

6.lfl 5.2.5
5.15 3.26

7 21 12.57
7 29 24.30

Bernard...............

2'25 08 34 :16 ll

5223.8

0712.6

i

Cedar Lake ............... , 28 49 13. 96
Uzzell ....................

I
1

179 27 30 238 32 26 58 42 13 141 51 14

McNeel................ I Bernard............... Cedar J,al<e. ... .... .. .. McNeel.. ... и ... и ......
1

359 27 29 58 34 3ll
2.18 40 5.5 321 49 54

8381,8 87:l'J.IJ
5153.9 7253. l

9166.l 9550.0
56~.2

5.21 5.42

28 50

40.961

7 ~ 41.85 7 34 18.90
7 34 52 .87

3.21
4.51

79Jl.8

Rhode. .................. иI 28 50
Ce.ny ................... .

03.971 28. 46 12. 121
4$

280 53 26
229

oa

56

i Cedar Lake............

McNecl ............... ,

100 5.5 48 49 08 17
7 21 20 57 52 54

813.1.0 10453.9
7196.2 105▒1.0

88114.0 1!432.0
"'69.6 11506.6
15913.2

5.05 6.50
4.47 6.54
11.04
~.78

187 21 04 237 50 16

Rhod"" .. ~ ............ . Cedar Lake ........... .
Cooar Lake ........... . Cany ................. ..
Cany~ и.ииииии.ииииииии.

Kenner .................. .

28 49 00.55

7 38 20.84

Lone Tree ....... ииии.иииии j 28

I 57.80 jW,7 36 36,87

268 20 i6 312 34 47 331 03 08 91 .(3 33

88 24 35 l;r.l 36 2lj
151 03 .58

14.551.6

7660.6
5R27.9

8377.4
637!"~.2

3.62
l.75

Keuner ииии ., ииииииии.ии

t.171 42 4J

>!600. l

3084.0

38*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section IX.-Coast soutliwcst

ef Galveston. Sketch I.

Name or

stati~ I

Prairie и...ии..ии.ии......

I Longitude. l__ A-zi_"_'"_'_h_._, ___T_o_и_ta-ti_o_n----i-B-иc_k_и_z_im_u_th_. ,,_D-i-иta_n-ce. _o_is_ta_n_e_и_. n_,_ииta-nc_и_и I I 2-lO 56 23 Kenner .......... ,,.... 40 57 22 1 ~128 46 55.03 'W.7 40 24.48 1 5115.6 ;;;:;94 ._a I 3.18
Lntitnde.
1

278 19 58 169 :'!l 46 239 59 07

Cany....... ... ... .. .. ..
Prairie................

98 22 38

9090.3

9940 9

5.6.5

28 43 43.83

l 39 44.37

:::n::::::::::::::::::::l

Cany................... I
Sargent................ , Prairie................
1

319 3l 26 60 27

1

01

5985.4

9131.0 5il82.6 4650.9 13213.8 9957.7
e770.4 4778.9

6&15.5 99o5.4 5776.9 5086.1 14450.2 10889.4 9591.1 52-26.1 6982.0 5693. 7 8784.9 8974.0

3.72 5.67 3.28 2.89 8.21 6.19
5.45 2.97

!l8 45 59.43 2S 41 02.55

7 37 45.03
7 45 02.43 7 42 18.27

37 49 20 111 36 11

:.::::. :: : :: :::: :: ::
I

214 46 51 240 04 23
200 36 00 240 53 58

Prairie Sargeni.:::.::::::::::::

I

217 47 23 29l 34 54 34 49 08 6-0 06 b5
20 36 b5 60 55 12

2S 42 2S.3.5

Prairie.... .... ... . . .. Sargent................. Prairie................. Sargent................ Prairie................. Sargent................
I

Ranch .................... ! 28 44 14.23
Live Oak .................

7 42 53.14

219 09 28 200 20 28
239 24 42 282 39 02

39 10 39 100 21 59
59 26 45 102 41 24

5:184.6 5206.5 80:13.2 8206.2

3.97 3.24 4.99 5 10

I

2S 4442.30 w.7 44 :J9.47
1

Section X.-Bay

ef San Francisco.
Azimuth.

Sketch J, No. 6.

Name or station.

L;.titude.

I

Longitude.

To station-

I
,

Back azimuth. Distance. Distance.

j

ID=
3.26
5.58

Nonb End or Base'. .... " South End or Base........

I 37 51 45.17 I
:r7 49 08.31

122 16 19.30
122 14 55.49

Metres. Y<JT.U. I .Miles. ........................................I............................................ .

1 Yerba Buena ............. 1 37 48 33. 77

157 02 36
228 56 03

North Base ...........

и1

337 01 44 48 58 5.1 83 09 18 394613 358 51 40
122 24 00 1852849

5251.8 8985.8 8893.0 13527.9 9:339.5

5743.2

122 20 56 .50 122 20 48.91
122 !lO 18. 75
122 24 49.97

!!63 05 31

Nonh BllBe.... и. .и .... South Base............

foim Avisadera. .......... J 37 43 30.88
Rocky

2194237 178 51 44
30'J 21 33

Bouthllaoe ............ Yerba Buena..........

I

I

9826.fi

9725.1 14793.7 10213.4

5.53 8.41 5.80
4.31 6.00

bland ......... и... \

37 .53 45.S-2

Ange!Island Peak ..... и ..

I :r7 51 39.71
37 47 36.15
37 48 23.60

52912

Nonh Bue............ YerbaBueua .......... f
Nonh Base ........... и I Rocky Iola.ml. ..... .," I Yerba Buena........... Angel Island Peak ..

269 11 02 239 38 18 258 18 09 201 15 52

89 16 15 59 41 04 78 21 45 21 17 05 !!69 30 40 893101
357 36 rn

1248~.41
7678.9

6928.4. 7576.7 9654.7 1 lOMB.l

l:l650.4 8397 .4 9645.9 8820.0 927. I 5363.l 5977 .9 6617.0 573'l.5 6390.3
4697.0
2111.0

7 и76 4. 77 5.48 5.01 0 .53 3.05 3.40 3.76
3.'l6

rresidio Hill .............. / 37 47 35.91 Presidio Ohllervatory, (Iran
Bil.)

122 !!6 49.65 122 26 15.00
122 24 39.63

""'II

Foint San Jose .ии.и..и , и. Lime Point Bluff ......... 1

..
I
I
I

89 31 01 1611153 266 41 '.19 177 36 18
295 44 18 229 50 09 271 24 33

Presidio Hill ........... PointdclosCavalloo иии

I

8820.6 I 8065.3 847, 8 4004.1 5466.4 6050.8 5242.0 5843,5
4295.1 1930.4

Yerba Buena ........... , Island Peak......

Angel

86 43 46

37 49 37 .49

11!2 27 52.68

Point San Jol!le и ........ ,

I Fon Point................
Point Lohoo...... . . .. и .. .
Bird Rock ...............

Angel Island Peak......
Point San Jose ..... ..и. Presidio Hill ии.и.и.и.и. 1
PrP.sidio Hill .и , .и....и и)

il5 46 16 49 52 01

3.63
!l.67
J.20

37 4!l 27 .06 37 47 12.33
"J7 49 42.49

122 27 35.18

324 45 53
257 39 33 Wl 44 01 27 46 03 33a 09 17
99 15 29

91 !26 21 144 46 21

122 !l9 05.63 \
11!2 25 25.67

Lime Point Bluff.... , ии

.774056 21 44 46
207 45 !23 155 Oii 34

3405.0 4817 .5 4409.6 2680.l 1611.8 !fl!l!!.2
20:R.O :IOBl!.9

3723.6 5268.3

2.12 2.99

Point San Jose .ии.и и.ии

Presidio Hill ....... ""I

4B'J2.2 2930.9 1762.6 2430.1

2.74 1.67

Alcatnsz Island .ии :.ииииии
Telegraph Hill............

37 49 34.08
37 48 06.43

122 24 20.61 122 23 19.42 122 !l8 59.73 122 30 50.54

12 Oi 59
105 06 11 151 Ol 39 ll04 06 !21 2 13 50

Bird Rock ............. 1 lll9 14 49 Point San JOl:le иииииииии 19'l 04 47 Point San Jose .......и. 1 1 Alcutras Island .... , ... .

1.00 1.38 I.!!6 1.92

28.'> 05 22
:J3l 01 DI
124 CJ7 13 182 13 46

2222.I 3377,9
!Tf.ll.l '1054.3

Point Diablo ...... , ... , ... Point Bonita .. .. .. .ииииии

:n 49 19.50
37 49 10.04 37 :;o

Fort Point ............ . Point Lobos., ......... .
Fort Point..и.. ......... Point Lobosиииииииииииии

2497.4 3707.4

1.55 2.311
3.08 2.76

.5!85 28 58 32-1 43 112
;ioo 04 47

105 30 58 144 44 jllj

4958.3
4444. 7

5422.3

4860.6

Pnint de lot! Cavalloa...... .

06.731122 27 19.64
I

351 01 55
346 10 45 40 58 14

foint San Jooe ........ . Prellidio Hill .......... . Point Sm 1ooe иииии ииии Point d<l loo Cavalloa.иии

129 ll6 25 171 o;i 13

504l. 9 4706.9

5513.7 5147.3

3.13 !!.93

Angel I eland Northweot .ии

37 51 37 .87 : 122 ll5 39.86

166 11 22 2MI 57 13

6167.5
37ll0, 7

6744.6 41168.9

3.83

ll 31

иThe ~n of Ban Francl.co bay depends on a pt'tlimill81')' baec near Poinl Ban Jl>ff, 941.:J meuu or O..li8 mile ia lencthи

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*39

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section X.-Bay
Name or .station.

ef San Franeisco.

Sketch J, No. 6.

Latitude.

Longitude.

l_A-~im_u_th_.260 12 05
34>1 55 50

---T-o-иta_ti_o_n_ _ _ \Baek

azimuth.I Diиtиnce. \ DU.t meи. ,Distance.

I
l'oiinde 1os Cavall()s ...и 1

--- ---~I- 80 13 24 162 56 07 IIE 24 14 218 17 07 109 II 31! 1480044 J83 30 40 2:J6 05 28
42 04 '" 15

Saucelito ................ . Peninsula Hill иииииииииии. Strawberry Hill .......... .

37 51 20.33
37 52 U .45

122 27 48.14
1'22 26 {}7 .23

An~el Island NorthweH.!

~e~r~6и
2373.4 2155.6 0007 .9 3014.5 30.00:.1 5693.2
510~.s

2595.5

~'~9~3 \ Mf~~S
t

1.48 1.34 J.2.5 J.87 1.88
3.54 3.79

298 41 27 38 17 3S
2~9 10 20 3'28 00 04

Angel Island Nortllwcst.j Sanco!ito Pomt .ии.ии...

37 52 43.58
37 51 27.93

122 28 53. 74
J22 24 25.;J6 J22 J7 48.83
J22 25 26.VB

Peninrola Hill .......... SancehtoPoillt .ии.ии.ии /
Point San Jos:e .....иии. J Lime Point Bluff.иииии ,)

!

1

2:1;7.3 S!l95.8 3'2!1fi.R 62-25.9 6677.1
425..-1.0 10369.0
~309.2

Angel Island Southeast.... Contra Costa, (3) ..... ....
Sbag Rock ии.ии.иииииии..

3 30 49

56 07 35

37 53 o:l.95
37 50 02.86

J09 43 36 28 57 JO

I I

24 17 31 77 42 16

RO<'kv Mand ........... ' 289 Yerbi. Buena .......... 1 208 1 Presidio Hill. .......... i 204 Lime Point BJutf.ииииии f 257
Presidio Hill ...........
Verba Baena .ииииии , иии ! Point Antonio .ии.ииии.. ; Yerba Buena ииии.ииииии ;
1
!

:1890.9 9461.8
4969. 7 3669.li

2.42 5.89 3.09

16 40 40 46

5431. 7 4012.J 93,J.2 J0513.6 11144.5 5607.l

2.28
5.30 5.97
6.33 3.19
B.16 7 .O'J

Stony Hill ............... ,
San Antonio Point иииииии ,
Sa.n Antonio Creek ...... .

37 44 Oil.42 37 48 20.24

J22 22 03.:JO

J9J 03 03 J33 13 39
28 S6 00 94 41 12
56 22 22 JOO 32 fr2
12{)

JI 03 44 313 lU 44

8523.6
9614.0

122 17 27.56 J22 13 22.34
J22 16 38.24
J22 21 55.90
J2\! 22 03.17

208 53 57 2'4 J9 04
236 Ji 49 280 27 24

J0190.9
5127 .3

37 47 27.!r:J
37 46 32.J2

Point Avisadera ..ииииии 1 Verba Buena .и...ии... ]

13132.2 11298.1 8298. 7
7347 .2

143,1.0 12355.3 907.5.2
8034. 7

Middle Point.. и и и ии и и и ии.
S&ll Quentin Rock.иии иии.

47 42 01 42 54

Point Avisadera и.ииииии Yerba Bu.en.a .иии.иииии.

227 39 28 300 40 16
162 5~ 04 l9 52 36

5.16 4.56
3.46

37 46 ll3.3.5

342 51 23 199 M 00
36 14 J3 303 26 36

Point Avittadera ....... . Yerba Buena ииии.ииииии
An!!"I Jsland Peak ...... Rocky Island ииии.иии.ии
Ang~I

55M.l
427.5.3

6084.7

-4675,3 7542.l 3343.I
8192.8
825:J.J

2.66
4.!l9 1.90
4.6.5 4.69

Richmond Point и и и и и и , и.

:n

54 40.18

216 12 31 123 27 40

6896.8

3057.0
7491.B .;546.0

Molate X.land ............ .
High Hill ииии ', ........... .

37 55 42. 'l2

J22 24 49. !l9

359 59 46 298 as 04

hi and P.eak иииии.

Rocky Island ......... ,
Angel Island Peak .... . . Rocky Island .......... .

179 59 46 118 37 51 195 3i 57 141 04 55

37 li6 30.67 37 li6 36.16 37 55 00. 'l2 37 53 16.67 37 54 4.5.80
37 55 53. IB

122 23 07.16

15 39 00
321 03 12
271 20 31 333 20 06

93J4.8 6544.9
709~.8

JOJ86.4
7157 .3

5.79 4.07 4.11
6.3.5

Point San Quentin ии.и.и. ,

122 27 57.73
122 20 29.53

1

High mu ............. . Angel Island Peak ..и.и. Rocky bland ииииииииии High Hill ............. .
Hil?h IIill., иииии.ииииии Point San QueDtin .....

91 23 30 153 2"2 OJ
173 31 2-2 305 45 23

1«25.3
2333. l 4744.0

7759.B 1118' ..U
2;,,-;1,4

Contra Co.ta, (4)иииииииии
Bluff Point .............. . CaJif<>mia City Point ......

3.53 3J 15 125 47 ()()

1.4.5
2.95

5187.9 7782.5 7601.1
7810. 7 3<l04.2

12-2

~

4.5.10

212 48 26 J52 14 07
243 03 55

=

32 Ml 03

7116.6
6950,7

4.42
4.:tJ

12 46

122 27 27.98
122 21l 05.64

1Б7 57 0-2 Cote Maderia............. .
Marin 1'1and ............. .
Point San Pedro..........
231 22 24 311 O'l 43

High Hill ............ ..

Point San Quentin ...и.

63 06 35 347 56 44
51 2.1 06 131 CJ 43

7142.4 3478. 7
212'.!.5 3162.R
6196.!I

4.44 2.16 1.32 1.96
3.e5 l.67
4.11 3.47

Puint San Quentin .и , ии. California City Point. ии
JJigb Hill ............. . Point San Quentili. .ииии High Hill.............. Point San Quentin.....

2321.I 3458.7

37 57 50.67

122 27 00.04

293 2ll Ol

Jt3 28 27
2Jl 30 19

31 30 54

2694.3 6619.5 5585.1
54!\7.4
~i.a

6776.3 2946.4
7238.9 6J07.7 5!16S,O
57~],9

37 59 13.41
37 56 47.47

J22 26 04.U9
Jl!i! 24 14.64
J!);l

319 15 59

29 47 03

139 17 4ll 209 45 53

Molate Point............. Point Ban Pablo..........
Ban RafaeHJreek,,... иии и

86 21 20 149 18 38

Point SOii Quentin..... Point San Pedro ..... ,.. Point San Quent;n. ии ии Poinl san Pedroи.и.ии , и

266 19 03 3-29 17 31 244 19 33
J2C 07 19
17!.1 27 40

3.39 3.25 3.36 2.03

37 57 W.04
37 58 15.llB

24 38.22

64 2J 35 14C 06 12

540'.l.6

3268.5
3081.9 3648.l
43.59.0

590S.t
3.574,3

l!N 28 14.00

35!1 27 30
240 33 29
JI 59 27 2S2 37 57

Point San Quentin..... Point !!an Pedro........ Point San Quentin..... Point San Pvdro.. . и .. ,

60 34 49 191 59 04 72 38 44

~~:!
4700.9
214V.O

l.91
2.27
2. 71 1.22

Cove ..... ,иии ....... , ...

37 SS 54.47

122 27 20.63

J956.9

l'lu

PABLO BAY.

Marsh Island ............ .
Castro.................. .

37 57 33.62 37 58 44.02

122 22 55.81 J22 2J 00.16

8 07 51и H13 49 10
37 01 4ll

f!Qi!h Hill ............. .

188 Oi 44

JOO-O.~

Point Silll Pedro ....... .

302 47 14
217 00 31 276 56 24
201 59 06

55<9.6
5l48.~

2143,9 0047 .o
56.'l0.6 817C.4

1.22 3.43 3.20

96 59 31 38 00 40.57 38 06 10.38 I!!@ !20 59.64 1512 28 23.85 I
ti 00 24 70 08 11
313 09 40

Hifb Hill ............. .
r01.nt 8a11 Pedro ....... .

7471.3

4.64 5.16 4.91
9.23

Point Penole ............. .
Petalwna Creek....... , иии

ID'11 HiU ............. .
Pou11 Ban Pedro ии.и Point Penole .......... . Poilu San Pedro ....... .

ииии1

8308.9
7898.3
148.'\3.9

250 05 04

!lOEWl.4 B6:J7 .3 16243.!! 1454lJ.и

345 05 34

J33 HH J!l; 10 00

13299.0

8.116

40*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURYEY.-GEOGRAPHICAL POSITIONS.

Section X.-San Pablo Bay.
Name or stati<>n.
Latitude.
Longitude. Azimuth.

Sketch J, No. 6.

To Rtation-

I

Back azimuth.( Distance. Distance. Distance.

Long Pond ............. ..

3R 07 37.98
38 00 43.54 38 02 45.31

122 18 36.44
122 28 Ii .52 122 29 28.02
122 23 50.69

, "

, ,,
15 Il 11 35 05 14 179 ()7 23 270 27 19 287 II 29 rnJ <i3 17 63 44 02
342 4ti 14

~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~

Point Peno) e иииии.и.ии l'oim ~au Pedro иииии.и
Petnlumn Pnint ии , .и.ии

Grove .................. ~ ..
Long Point ииииииииииииии. To lay Creek и , иииии , иииии Sonoma Creek ии. , и , иииии

---;;::; m g~ ;g I , rn.~f1:5 3590719 I 10077.5
oo
:Jl 49

YaTtk. --;;;:.

~~~u

it~~
6.26 6.64 8.07 4.05
4.61 8.75

Point renote .......... .
P()int Penolt! . и и . . .и. и и 1 Petaluma Creek .иии.. и]
Petaluma Creek, , ии , ии Point P1~11olc .иии.иии..и
Petaluma Creek и , ии , ии Point Pt:>nOh:! ...... , ии.ии

I

10081.0 12980.2 6512.9
7420. i 14085.9
ll.>37 .6 l-1289.9

107 16 42 1:1 53 56 243 41 13 162 47 59
219 01 53 179 49 46
31)[1

l

!10-20.5 11680.4

14194.8 712'2.3
81lfi.l
1540~

38 07 57 .oo
38 08 24.08

1

.9

122 21 01.38 122 12 24.14 '

69 06 26 3.5!J 49 45

1261и.2
15627 .0

7.17 8.88 6.90 8.78
6.E:l
5,4$
2.76

Vallejo, (3) иииииии , , ..... i 38 04 09. 75

12.) 19 21
62 52 53

Lon$? rond ............ . Point Peuolc. и ии , ии.ии
Long Pond ........ ,_ .. . PQiut Pcnole ииииии ._, ии
Point J>1иnole иии.и.ии.ии

15 31

242 47 3:i
334 13 53 2,';0 15 10

11111.9 14126.5
1099!).4
Bie~.5

12151.6 15448.3 120-l4.2
0010.8

Lone Tree Point иииииии.и. Wilson иииии.ииииииииииии
More Island South<ast....

38 02

rn. 75112'2 15 20. :l9

I

lM 15 fi4 70 18 39
89 52 13 175 45 36
UBS Q5 09

38 00 40.931122 17 57.29
38 04 34.35 122 14 16. 87

269 ;-,() 21
355 4Ci 12

4447.5

Long Pond ии.ииииии.ии

1289-2. 7 28.SO. l 4515.i

4863.6 14099.1

8.01

20 03 20

Vallejo, (1) .............. , 38 05 15.38

l!l!l 13 45.58
122 15 03.90

31 05 S!3 315 32 42 273 31 21 J20 20 :l7
]58 2:1 f>4 22:3 20 52

I:Mar~

VallejQ, (3).,. ........ . Louc иrree Puint и.ии , и. Island Southeast .и Vallejo, (3) .... ., ......

lOii 26 19 200 02 41 211 05 04 135 33 3-2
9:1 3l! 12 140 20 56

3116 .~ 4938.3
1615.2
3U99. l

l.77 2.81

1477.0
:ul33.9

0.92 1.16
l.19 1.12 1.i3 l.56 l.68 VJ5

Mare bland Northwest....
Abbott ................. .. BuиhHill............... ..

38 05 19.19

Vallejo, (1) и ., и ., ,. .. ,. :\'tare lsl<lnd Southea~t ..
Mar~ Island Southeast ии Vallejo, (3) .......... ..

1912.1 ];9.5.8
2779.7 2511.6
2700.:l

2091.0 1963.8 31139.8 2746.6

38 03 10.5211!<2 13 34.88 38 02 57.90 38 03 57.14
38 02 33.r;O

338 23 28 43 21 36
325 06 52

122 11 20.79

145 07 31
96 47 51

Vallejo, (3) ........... . Abhott. ............. ..
Bush Hill ............ .. Vallt>jo, (3) ииииииииииии North Bay............. Bush 11~1 ....... .,..... Karquine11 Point . и . . . . . l"<orth Boy.............
Karquine$ Poitit ..иииии , Monumf~Dt Hill ииии , и и .

29;.a.o
35911.9

276 46 28
230

3291.9
21l;'i.1.7 3756. 7 2579.:l

North Bay .............. .
Karquineи Point..........

122 09 50.84 12'2 09 48.52
12-2 IJtl 25.35 122 07 4:!.84 12'! 06 49.15 122 06 07 .26
122 05 27,64

:;o

13

os

95 57 20

rn

10

275 5fj 45

3120.7 4108.2
28'10. 7 2594.0 2975.3 242i.3

1.78 2.33 1.60 1.47
1.69 l.38 2.5.'l

178 44 .'\2

me

30 03

358 44 51 288 29 06
2-2~ 10 37 290 08 37

2J72.0

Monument Hill и.ии ,......
Martinez.................

38 03 32.34

48 11 28 110 09 30
131 04 58 166 [J.9 28

2720. 7 2219.6
41l65.4 4603.2
3734 .4
4450.5

:!8

01 06.86

311 03 40 346 59 02

4445.8 !'>O;J;J.9
408.1.9 4866.9

2.86 2.32 2.77
1.79 9.72 2.19 1.86

Anny Point...............
Suiиun Point.............
bland Point ..............

38 03 00.31
38 0-..! Ol.21
38 01 47.75

20 31 31 79 lt'.3 46
fit 17 43
]~J

Martinez и и и .. и . .... и .. Karquines Point.........
Martinez.............. Monument Hill ии.и , и . .
Maninei;и ....... .., .. и .. Army Point............

200 30 58 25Y 16 55
234 16 44 3Ф.19 49 59
249 03 43 318 2Q: 19

51 24

2870.6 4384.7 3529.9 2!192.0

3139.2
4795.0

1:1~

69 05 00 2J 09

Benicia, eross on church...
COAST ?(EAR BAM FRAN-

38 03 JO.BB

122 08 23,81

345 21 00 60 50 48

Martinez Kan1uines Point.. и и . и . .
" H ииииии , ии и

165 21 31 240 49 56

39;,1,7 2364.9

2.46 1.47

<..asco.

Point Loboo, (2)...... ииии

37 47 06.17' 122 28 56.05 37 45 34.71 37 45 10.75 122 28 39.95 122 27 11.98

253 28 12 1!18 2il !19
215 59 49 172 02 45

Preиidin Hill .......... . Lime Point Bluffиии , ии , Presidio Hill........... Point Lobos, (2) и .. ии ..

73 29 !!9 18 23 08
35 50 57 ,352 O'l 35

322.'\ .6
4915.~

:l.W7.4

5375.8
5040.8 3113.3

2.00 3.05 2.86 1.77
2.80 2.72 1.76 1.85
4.59 3.01
4.77 4.19

l!land Knoll...............
Blaok Ridge ........... .. Round Top .............. . JI lack Blu!I': ............. .

4609.li 2846.9 4508.3 4315.6

186 57 35 144 24 52
131 fi3
~)

Presidio Hill ......... .. Point Lobos, (2) ...... ..
Point LoOO., (2) ..... .. Prez;idio Hill ..и , ~ ...... .

ll 57 49
324 23 48

4930.2 4785.0
301)6,(i

37 46 01.l:i.5
37 43 07.16 37 41 20.00 37 41 18.80 37 36 24.36

122 27 29.92

199 20 03

311 52 42 19 20 28
3 26 G9

2831.l
21175.2

3'153.6

122 29 14.12

1&1 25 ;,s 218 06 54

Abbey nm .............. .

122 25 14.28 122 28 43.23
l~

157 57 II 119 2-~ 21

I
I

Point Lobos, (2) , .... ,, Black Ridge .......... .

380809

7:181.3 4843.1
6i39~5

8072.0
5:lll6.3

lllack Ridge .......... .
Black Blu.ffииии , ..... ..
Rla~k

337 55 59 009 19 54 347 14 17 17 21 38 23 !!!! 24 252 41 27

7675.0

8393.ll 7370.l
3745.8 81112.5

Green Blutr............. ..
CAttle Hill .............. ..

167 14 36 197 l!O +l
203 27 45 172 41 :ill

I Iliac

Rlntf.......... ..

k Ridge , ........ ..

3425.3 7491.5

2.UI 4.65
6.17

27 s.5. 77

Abbey Hill ............ . Green Jllufl'........... .

91136.5
9151.0

10866.3 10007 .3

5.69

OF THE UNITED STATES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*41

UNITED ST.ATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPIIICAL POSITIONS.

Section X.-Coast near San Prancisco.
Name or station.

Sketch J, .l'{o. 6.

I

L. .

~..
I

Lи. .-

j_Az_im_u_th_.~1
11
t

---~--.-,-,/-t
Ricliardson ...............
Cay?te Ridge ............. High Bluff................ 37 5157.74

0

1

375101.76112-228~.261

I 12-2 32 07.53

~~:~
~

ii';i g~

1

'.l'oatation-

Backazimu~.J ~-и1D,и-J-~
~~::t
~ ~~

и и~\~=~:;,;; !~'.и~:;:::::::I
' Richardson .иииии.и ииии CayoteRidge

~!~:~:r:)i~iи.I::::::::!

1 mui
Ml'lres.

Ya-rd$.

[

Miles.

t;

=:~
4916.3 2414.0

~f;:~I !
~~~:~
5376.3 2639.91

1 37 50 39.571122 32 13.42

261 59 08 183 25 07

:иииииииии1

I

Read .................... , 37 55 06.951122 30 00.45
Table Mountain ..........

'

I :.n

339 45 22 28 0-2 11
2995220 328 35 44 308 26 33 342 12 41
и 289 l!:J 00 177 S5 56

Strawb~rrv Hill ииии Cayote Ridge ..... ~....

ииии1

&2 01 10 3 25 11

i

\
1

~:i:i
ii:~;
3.fl5 1.50

159 46 0.1 208 Q(J 53
1195557 148 37 2:l

4710.6 6607 .9
9945:0 746.l.4 8889.5 72111.3 I
39-28.6 5069.6 i
~o

55 24.40

122 34 46.66

StrawberryHill ........ 1 CByote Ridge ....... ииии/

I 10875.51 8161.8 I
97'21.3 7973.5
4296.2 5544.0

5151.4 7il:l6.2

2.93 4.IL
6.18 4.64
5.5'1 4.53

Table Mountain Peak, ии.. t! 37 55 -!2.95

122 33 38.68

! Cayote Ridge ........... [
, Cayote Ridge ......... ,, ' Table Mvuntain .иииииии ,

I Stea wherry Hill ........ 1

128 29 28 16:.! 13 37
109 24 35 357 55 .51

i I

Du:rbwy ................. .

37 52 40.061122 34 39,17

i

i
j

Frank'и Lagoon..........

иI

2.44 3.1.i

37 51 42.651122 34 05.94

260 51 28 I' Cayote Ridge ......... и I 385 15 Oil I High Bl ~ff............. j

80 52 41 125 16 11

:!9J~_. 3 1

1 1

3-205.41 3683. 5

1.89 ll.09

Section XI.-Columbia River.
Name or station.
Latitude. Longitude.

Sketch K.
IBaek azimuth.\ Distatl<'e.1 Distance. \Distance. ! I I i' I

Azimuth.

To station-

~~~~~~~-~1~-~-~.1--~----j-~~~~и1~~~~~-~~~и

o

I

fl

0

/

1r

i

Bue on Ba-) East End ии. ket'и Bay. { W esl .Knd ..

46 18 12.74 46 18 52.11
46 16 44.0<i

123 57 43.01 123 59 55.7S 124 01 47 .43 123 55 49.17 123 54 14.54 123 56 55.80

ии и293 и05и 56" 'E.;;iii;;.:,;: :: :: ::: : :: :: 1ии 'ii:iи ioи Ji ..
242 20 43 211 08 04 143 08 44
140 01 43 104 57 10 141 26 53 213 20 12
28;l

1

░

t

n

Meir-a.

:
J

~~~-1~~-

иии:io&i: 1и 1.. ":i37s:s и1и .. и иi :9-:i
5904.4 4619.4 4061.2
7686.~

Yards.

I !

Miles4

Cllpe Dl&appolntment .....

East Base.............. 1 West Base............ и 1
Cape D""1ppointment... EastB....,..............
East Baae.. иииии ....... Cllpe Disappointment... Cape Disappointment... Scarboro' Hill..........

62 23 39 31 09 25
273 46 33 323 U7 2-2
319 .59 12 284 51 43 321 23 22

I

6456.9 5651.6
4441.2

I

j

3.67 2.87
4. 78 2.52
4.31 6.23 6.22 3.90

Baller-'и Bay ии. ............
Searboro' 9111 .......... ..

46 16 27.50
46 15 !l0.44

93 50 52

8405.61
7f>93.3 I 10973.5 J

6943.6 10034.6

Point Adamt1 ............ .

46 12 30.42 46 16 35.24

33 22 08
139 JO 55 103 04 09 8 48 58 75 38 47

10017 .0 10954.3 I 6Ul.O I 6872.0 /
111249.0
999'2.2

Cape Haneock, astrooomiи
cal station.

124 02 00. 90

319 07 15 58 32

Point Adams........... Scarboro' Hill.......... E ..t BaBe ....... ...... Scarboro' Hill.......... Point Ad-s....... .... Scarboro' Hill.......... Point Adams........... .t\Jslor Point............ Tanoy Point........... Point Adams........... TanиyPoint........... Bcarbon>' Rill ......

109'27.2 / ll207.9 7450.l 6219.4 \

6.21 6.37 4.93 3.53

Sand Island ............ ..
Astot Point .............. .
Tuey Point ............. .

46 14 34.69 и123 58 31. 76
46

188 48 23 255 35 41

6812.6 56e~ .2

n

27.62

123 49 at.74 123 M 35.16 lll3 53 !16. 76 lll3 50 4C.67

101 :J3 25 139 ~ 42
124 48 59 268 35 21 13 17 55 47 29 25, 10-2 00 21 151116 11 1::17 40 29 lllB 56 43

281 28 05 319 :;o 18
304 47 17 88 39 00
ll~7

9714.9 94ill.6
3671.9 6507.3 6375.3 6078.2 5140.2 9579,6 4582. 9 2228.2 2161.3 3911.2
j
J

10023.9 10-261.3 \
4015,5 7116.2 6971.8 6646.9 5621.!i! 10475.9 5011. 7 24:l6.7 2363.S

6.04 :J.84
!i!.518 4.04 3.96 3. 78 3.19 5.115 2.115 I.38 1.34 2.43

..

46 11 !!2.54 46 14 43.51 46 10 47.97

I
I
II

Priest'и House, croa ииииии
Smith's Point. ........... .

193 17 06 26 54

ииииi

28157 :J2 331 23 37 307 38 27 38 57 :JO
3-~

Jlamh Point,(!) .... ииииии
SUppernawin Creek......
46 IO IH.00 123 53 39.76

Tansy Poillt. .......... 1 Smith'и Point..........
Tall")'

HG 39 44 269 06 00

Poi11t. ии........ 1 Smith'и Pomt... ии и ....

39 04 TI! 08 09

4277 .2

v ........ BiWll'.... .... ....

46 09 48,44

123 49 09.il3

91 48 31
1;33 09 07

Manb Point........ и и
Smilh'a l'oint ......... .

971 46 38 313 08 01
300 15 -13 5 35 cit! !i!4il 31 43 15.5 66 62

:J364.l Jl687 .9
1349.0 2424.2
71111.6

3678.9 2939.4
1475,!i! 2651.0

2.09

1.67 0.84 1.00
4.91!
3.80

l!lG ltl 92 18:1 3S 00

Point Ell<!e иииии ...... иии
Gllly'a l'olm........... ии'и

46 14 !!S.lill

1113 51 1111.11
1113 45 02.41

~~

48 Iii 115.16

===

= =i:.~:::::::::::

Manh Point .......... . Smith's l'otnt ......... .

6116.l
10846.7

8&51.9 6688,4
11863.8 I

==::::::::::::

lW6 il3 li6

212 06 24

90U.l

1185ot.3 \

6.74 5.60

42*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY.-GEOGRAPHlCAL POSITIONS.

..

Section XI.-Columhia River.
w:
Name or station.

Sketch K.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

I
I

Back azimuth.' Distance. DisUlnce. Distance.

Cl

I

/f

1

O

I

II

Tongue Poin~ Ne.II: .......
Tongue Point ........ , ....

46 1216.701123 45 07.46 46 12 46.181123 44 33.60 46 15 44.86 46 11 18.53 123 49 28.58 123 48 42.07 123 47 17.16 123 46 07.93 123 39 51.00
123 4SI 47.45 I

75 03 08 116 33 04

A~or Point., ........... ! Pomt Ellice ..... ..... --:
Point Elliee и..и .........
Gra;"i Pnint .......и...

I

I

---254 59
~7

~

296 28 21l

Metres. ;865,0 9115.51
9426.7 6789.3
7942.2 8520.4

Yards. 6413.8
!196ll.5

Mu... 3.64 5.66

109 37 17 174 47 19 00 29 23 318 56 03 148 46 19 206 24 37 135 17 00 197 43 03 126 02 43 189 16 29 41 06 57 88 28 46
29()

289 ~ 18 354 46 58
180 21l 21

10308.8 7424.ll 8685.4 9iUi.7
7Ci02.2

5.86
4.93 S.29 4.26 6.57

4.22

Clilf Pnint ................ Asloria tlag-nafi' ..........
Upper Astoria .............

Astor Point .. ......и... Tor1guf! Point Neck ....

138 59 11 328 44 19 26 27 16
315 Ja 58 17 44 41 :!05 58 S2 g 17 16

Point EllicP и..и..иии.и. Gray's Point ............ Point Ellif'e и. ....и.и... Gray's Point ......-........
Point Ellice .. .......... Gray's Point ............
1'011~ue Poidl .......... Gray's Point .и , .и.и....

68tl0.3 1057'2.7
7640.3 9479.2 84"2.6 8703.6

IJ56'2.0
83551.l 1036tl .2 9276 .3 9518.0

46 11 :J2.73 46 11 46.96
46 16 31.03 46 17 17 .99 46 17 53.33 46 18 03.13 46 15 :36.19

4.75
5.!!ll

Shortи'и Chimney ........
Yellow Bluff .............

5.27 5.41

221 03 3:l 268 25 01 111 00 59 195 06 56 164 06 49 250 19 00 136 ()\:! 12 216 31 :JO 244 49 00 277 14 55 348 51 50 41no 1.i !f27 54 49 303 50 28 291 42 O!I ]() 49 05
228 2ti '51 164 55 49

9210.3 0068.9
404'>.4 8694.0

1007ll.l 729'2.9

5.72
4.14

Gray's Bay ...............
Gray's River . .....и....... Alamieut River .............

58 5~ 15 10 13

Yellow Bluff............ Tongue Point ............ Yellow Bluff............. Gmy'sBl.ly ....и.....и.

4423.9 9507 .5
~888.9

2.51
5.40

123 40 24.79
r

344 00 25 70 20 43
316 (I() 39 36 32 11
64 ;..;) 17

2641.7 3241.9
3951.3 1734 .6
123.5.G.2 11896.3

1.64

3545.2
4321.0 1896.9
13.';!5.7 13009.4

2.02
~.46

123 41 59.19 123 35 51.31 123 43 28.00 . 123 39 42.34 123 37 11. 74 123 39 Hi.21 123 36 21.74 123 33 26,:;9 123 3'2 57,()9 123 33 32.22 12:1 30 07.18 123 30.18.98 123 34 19,941
!

Yиllow Bluff........... Gray's Bay и.и.и..и..и.
To11gue Point ...... ....

l.08
7.68 7.39 6.51 8.17

Rocky Point .............. J<>bn Day Point ...........

I
I

97 21 33 46 10 52.03
168 52 58 228 04 48

Gray's Point .и.....и.и. Gray's Point ............ :Rucky Point ............
Gray's P-oint ........... Tollgue Point .... ......

10482.5 13143.3 11l!l'.!-2.Q 7520.S 10198.8 QI9fl.6 9109.7 10167. 7

11463.4 14'!73.l
14l!fl.l
~.5

Settler's Point .... ..и...... 46 10 30.12

147 58 40 123 !)3 56 lll 47 28 190 48 07 48 30 41 344 M :liJ
85 49 39

8.03 4.67

Indian Point ииииииииииииии RnckKnoll ............... Channel Station иии , ......
Pillar Hill Tree ииии , ......

46 10 43. 79 46 16 01. 78 46 13 ll.38 46 16 03.64 46 15 37.83 46 13 41.76 46 13 57.95 46 16 01.57

иrongut=t Point ........... Rocky Point .и.и.....и. Tongue Point .......... Indian Point .и..... и...
Indian Point ............ Tongue Point ............
Tongue Point ............ I ndiaH Point ..............

lll53.l 10050.6

11.34 5.71 5.66
6.:l!l

9962. l 11119.1
5119.3

13 14 J5

193 13 59 265 43 44 246 49 40

4681.3 Hl569.8
15534.o 10990.4 3718.1 10585.3

11558.8
16988.2 12018.8

Jl.91 6.57 9.66 6.83

66 57 42

26 03 42

206 00 59
009 12 19 210 55 35

Jim Crow roint и , .... ; ...

89 14 24

3V .'>8 38

Rocky Point ........ , ии Indian Point ........... Jim Crow Point ииииииии l!.ooky Pol111 ........ , ии Indian Point ........... Roclty Point ...........
иCathlamet Point .........
Jim Crow l'oint ииии.ии.

4066.0 ll57li.8

2.31
6.58

Jllanh Point, (2), .........
0.lhlamet Point ..........
Three Tree.Point ииии , иии ,

191 39 25 139 5ll Oil 4Q 13 ll2 24 06
!'i(I

3900 lH9 liO 26
236351Y1 292 20 00
~7

n

3658.4 4621.2
10897.2 71170.6 :!825.1 ll476.6

4000.7 [i053.6
11916.9 8716.4 4163.0 3801.9
1oi2fl.3 и

1.1.27
2.87

6.77 4.95
2.38 2.16
5.93 3.'19

356 12 37

770034

178 12 45 48 39
~4141

Pillar lloek ...............

46 15 28.71

ll!il 43 45 297 2() 28

Indian Point ........... (,'athlwnet Point иииииии

117 23 31

9536.0 600ti.2

6666.6

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*43

APPENDIX No. 8.
Lift ef capes, headlands, harlx>rs, and anchorages on the Western coast ef tlte United States, of which the geographical positions have been determined, topographical surveys made, and charts and sketches issued, to date ef report ef 1852. и
1
2

I

61 Cape Orford, Ewing harbor ....... ! Position determined. 7 Trinidad bay .................... i Position determined ....................................
8
9

31 --1 ~ ~!fn~ ~:o~t~~~'. ~:: =~::: ~::: j. =~-s~~~~ -~~~e:~~~e-~ ::: :: ~~~~~=~~:~:i =~=~ :~:.и..

False Dungen!lBs ................ 1 Position determined. Scarboro' or Nee-ah h11.rbor ... .. ии Pooition determined. Cape flattery ................. Position determined.

Sketch issued.

10 11 12
14

13 15
16
17

18 19 20
21 2'.l

23

24
25

Sket-0h issued. Humboldt bay .................. ! Position detennined ................................. Sketch issued. 1 Fort Point ...................... i......................... Topographical survey made. Alcatraz Island ................... Topographical survey m!lde .... Sketch isиned. Mare Island Straits ................ , . и .. и .. .. . . и и и . ... и .. .. ... . Topographical survey made... I Sketch issued. Presidio, San Franei!co bay иииии и Pos!t!on deterrn!ned. j и Santa Cruz........................... Posmon det,ermmAd .................................. ; Sketch issued. Point rmos, Monterey harbor иииии Pos~t!on determ!ned .ииии ' Topographieal survey made .и. l~reliroi~ary chart. San S meon.. .. ... и и и .. .. .. .. .. .. и .. .. Pos1t1on determmed .. . и .. и .. и .. и .. .. .. и .. и и и .. .. и и . .. .. и .. .. Sketch 1es11ed. San Luis Obispo .................. Position determined ................................. i Sketch is1med. I PointConcepcion ................ Position determined ................................. ) Sketch issued. Santa Barbara ...................... Position determined. Prisoners' harbor ................ Position J.,termiaed. 1 Cuyler's harbor ................. Pos!t!on determ!ned ..... 1 . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( Sketch i11sued. San Pedro.... .. и и .. .. .. и . .. и .. .. Pos1t1on deteruuned ..... \ Topographical survey made. 1 San Nioolae..... ... .. и .. и .. и и и .. l'ositioJn determined. ! Santa Catalina.......................... Position detNmined ....и................................. Sketch issued. [ Sa~1 Clemente ....._. ............. , Poи~t!on deterw~ned ..... 1. . . . . . . . . . ._. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ии'. Sket:ch_ issued. / Point Loma, San Diego ии и ии и .ии . и Pos1t1on determwed .иии -1 Topo11"1иaph1cal survey made .... j Prelimmary chart.

i----.....................

I

I

l

I

I

.

I

I

APPENDIX No. 9.

Ileport ef Lieut. Comg. M. Woodhull, United States Navy, a.ssutant in tlte Coll3t Su:rvey, to the
Superintendent, on the wcation

ef &Uif-boats on

the coast

ef 1lfaine an_d New

H1Jmpshire.
October 24, 1853.

CoAsT SoRVEY Sr;.TtoN, NEAR PHILLIPS, MAINE,

Sm:и I have the honor to enclose the report of Lt. Comg. M. \Voodhull, U.S. Navy, assistant in the Coaot Survey, on the
location of sun-boats on the coaat of Maine and New Hampshire; made in pursuance of instructions to me by the department. After a careful examination of the localities tormeily preferred by p, allll visiting others in their vicinity, Lieut. Comg. W~hull has succeeded in obtaining suit,.,ble persons to take charge of the boatи, under the bond required .i:.y the TreMury Department, at Seal Harbor, near Whitehead light, Maine; Southwest Harbor, Mount Desert, Maine; Millbridge, Narraguagua Bay, Maine; ud Isle of Shoals, near Portsmouth, New Hampshire. He d0<1ired ro plsce boats at Cape Small Point harbor, mouth.of the Kennebec, Maine, nnd at Wood islaud, Saco bay, Maine, and finding no one wilfmg to give the required bond, posted the uotice provided in that cue by the instructions of the department. A boat shed ahCJllld be built over the1e boats for their preservation, and a wooden railway be made to haul them up readily. I would also recommend that authority be procured from Congress to pay a small annual :.um for the care of the boata, as is done by the Malllla.chusettl! Humane Society, providing for their inspection once or twice ea.ch year, or else a bounty, sueh as is proposed by Lieut. CCJmg. Woodhull. ' I am in correspondence with Lieut. Comg. Stellwsgen, Uniwd States Navy, a.asistant in the Coast Survey, in regard to . hie inquiries into the location of 1urf..boat11 within. the hydrogra.phio section in which he is engaged, (the C0&8t of Masochuaetts and Rhode lsl&ud,) and will communicate further with the department as eoon WI the matter is matured. With the report of Lieut. Comg. Woodhull, I enclose the bonds referred to. Very reitpectfully, youn, &c., A.. D. BA.CHE, S~ of Coast StmJtq. Bon. JA:i1uts GUTHRIE, &ereC4ry of t./ls Tr-cturt.rg.

U. S.

Sca:ooNER "GALLATIN,"

Plgmouth,

Oeto/Jer

15, 1853.

Sra: Your order of September 96, directing me t.o make examination of certain localities selected tor the purpose of makbig them life-boat 11t11tions, bas been executed. I left i>Dc.he fil'llt instant, and only returned yeaterday. The duty waa
both lll'duou11 and difficult, lllld, owing to the peculiar lnl!ll!liciency of the law creating these 001>,ta, I was aocceasful only in part ill obtaining persona to tak.-e charge of them. The rollowing ie the resnlt: Whitehead light waa not ooaaiФktred, on exlllltiM.tion., a imitable point for the pnrp<l&B, owing to the natural diflieultiee of polil.tioo aud the hnposaibility of mllDBing the boBt, lf everyttiing else wu favorable. I eoneluded to plaee the boat at a - U 1ettlement m 8'oJ, furrior, about one and a Jialf mile from Wlritaheltd light-the pi.ce is called St. George&. Mr. Folt cpea the~ demanded by the Secretary of the Treasury. I wa11 ubliged, however, to promiae that a boat-lwuae

44*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

would be erected at this point, as otherwise the boat could not be kept in ready serviceable order. I really hope that the department will see the propriety of it, and otder the house to be built. Enclosed is the bond. The ne1't site selected Wiil! Southwest harbor, on Mount Dt;sert. Before se]t;cting tliis иite I viиited Cranberry islandи, but could not find any one willing to take charge of a boat; and, besides, there was the usual difficulty of these outside places, of getting a sufficient number of persons together to man and manage it. I examined Bass harbor and two or three other,oints, and finally settled down on So11thwest harbor. Mr. Henry H. Clarke undertook the eh.rge and safe-keeping of one of these boats, and I forward you his bond, agreeably to the directions of the Secretary of the Treasury. The next site selected was at Millbridge, in Narraguagus bay. I cannot say that I am alt()gether satisfied with this selection ; but as I could not do better, and as the people urged the necessity of ha~fog 11 life-boat in that locality, I concluded, after examining Petit Menan iиland and point, and also Pond island. to gratify them. The facts are, with the exception of the light-house keepers and their families, the Petit l\fonan and Pond islands are uninhabited. Petit Menan Point i$ so "parsely inhabited that I did not see more than half a dozen houses, and those from at least one to two miles apart; besides, the people are poor, and disinclined to assume responsibility or more cares. I granted the care of one of the boatи to two young persons of reиpectability and property, J. T. Wallace and A. R. P. Wallace, of Millbridge. Their bond, properly signed, is enclosed. While at Rockland and at Mount Desert, I made efforts to get a conveyance to the lfartinicus islands, b11t Wllll nnsuccesaful, and, after losing two days, gave it np. At the entrance of the Kennebec I was most unsuccessful in finding a responsible 11.Dd respectable man who was sufficiently moved by the interests of humanity to take the c11re of one of the boats. I visited Parker's Head, but, owing to its position, did not consider it a suitable locality, as wast.be Clltle with Hannewell Point. I finally decided upon Cape Snmll Point barbor, as the very best site for the object. I saw several persons and endeavored t<> urge them to take one of the boats, but, I am sorry to say, without the least effect. I, however, published the notice directed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and left with Captain .Abernethy Lowell a blank bond in cl!.lle he changed his rllind and might desire to have a boat located in his neighborhood. _ At Wood Island harbor my succePs was as little as in my previous efforts. This is certainly one of the localities that eught to be furnished with a life-boat, and the persons I talked with on the subject admitted the necessity of such a3l!istance during the terrible winter storms, but I could not find any one willing t-0 give the required bond. Tbf>y were willing to take the boat, and would promise to use it, but would not hind themselves to repair it, or to be responsible for itt! care; so I published the directiuns of the Secretary of the Treasury, and left, a blank bond. I visited Boone island, but found it totally unfit for 11 life-boat etation, being entirely uninhabited, a11ve by the light-house keeper and fomily. The "Isl,. of Shoals," I think, is the very beиt 1-0cality that could be selected for the pnrpoиe, inhabited as it is by a hardy, daring people, ready with heart and hand to aid a shipwrecked seaman. I found no difficulty in getting a reliable person to assume the charge and responsibility of such a boat, and obtained from him the required bond, which I send you, filgned by Lemuel B. Caswell, of theии Isle of Shoals." This, sir, is the result of my visit and exlllllination. I wish it might have been more fortunate; but as I could only use persuasion, I must be satisfie-d. with the success J obtained. I think Congress ehould. provide some compenaation for the people who undertake the use and care of these life-boats, not as a direct pay, but as a bounty on lives and property saved. A small allowance would have a good tE'ndency, and might be tbe means of ilaving many valuable lives. I would olso suggest the necessity of these boats being provided with sails, particularly on this coast, as they would aid in approaching a distant point of disaster. 1'here is svarcely a moment on this coast that sails would not be useful; and, besides, this meane of propulsion is more favorable than perhaps a le>ng, wearisome pnll with oar:s. I would urge thi!! on the notice of those having charge of the matter. . .All of which is respectfully submitted. Yours, respectfully, M. WOODHULL, Lieutsnatit Commanding. Prof. A. D. BACRF., Superintend.eat of Coast Surmy, Phillips, Me .

и

APPENDIX No. 1 o.
Letter of the Superintendent of tl1e Coast Survey to the &cretary ef the Treasury, transmitting the report of Lieut. Comg. H. S. Stellwagen, United States Navy, assistant in the Ooast Survey, in regard to the _location of 6Uif-boat1 on the coast ef Massaclt usetts.
CoAsT
S1R:
SuavEY 8TATtoN, NJ:AR PHILLIPS, MAINE,

NofJe>Mt:r 18, 1853.

I have the honor to enclose to the department a report from Lieutenant H. S. Stellwagen, U11ited States Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, in regard to the location of surf-boats on the co11&t of M8.881!.Chnsetta, acoomp1111ied by a
printed list and sketch showing the location of the 11t1ats of the Massachusetts Humlllle Society, and by two bonds signed by persons willing to take charge of boats at Nausett light-house and Glades House, Cohaesett. I would eomtnend. this report to the attention of the department, a.nd, being unacquainted with its general views in the matter, l!Carcely venture to 111-ake definite recommendations under the new circumsta.nce6 of the case. , It appears to me, however, that the coast of Massachuset<c~ .J>ei.ng already well supplied with life-boata and llUblidiary apparatu1, under exeellent regulations by this noble society, oilier parts Of the coast may be furniahed. If, however, the 11umber of boat& selected for the coast of Massachusetts should be placed there, I think it would be juaiefou to put them under the oontrol of this Meiety, if the law permit it. Should these boats be available for other Pиrtl! of the coast, an officer might egain vi.Bit the coast 6f New Hampshire aud Maine, and make eelection of as m8Ily pointll at1 there -were,Poate provided, where the eooiditiona preacri.bed by the department would be accepted. The desire to make no mistake in this matter, under the new aspect of tbing11 produeecl by the information ol>t.aiueil 0,. Li&noommt St.ellwagen, bu delayed my report until tbiB time. 'fbe @ubject has been one of Фinference ud correBpoJldenee bellweeu Lieutenant Stellwagen and myself, which has only jmt termiuated in the l'eport of thA1; o!lioer. Very reapeetfulJy, )'l)nra, &e., /... J), M.CllE, ~и

OF THE UNITED STATES COA.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*45

PHn.AD1".LPHIA, No7'mWIJ1" 12, 1853. SIR : I have received your Jett.er of the 9th instant, and respeetfully submit the following report con<,-erning the location of life-boats oo the coast of MasS11.chueetts. I visited, according w your instructions, the light-hoose stations at Nauиett and Cohassett, and &t each place found that boatB had already been placed by the Massiwhusetts H11mane Society, and subsequently learned officially from R . .B. Forbes, esq., and other officers of that society, that 81lme forty or forty-one boats are stationed at intervals along the coast of the State, occupying nearly every suitable and required spot. My own observi<tion at Capo Cod, Gloucester, Cape Aun, Marblehead, Nantucket, &c., confirms the statement. And I can add, that in addition to the ca.re of selection of places, great judgment is showu in the construction and equipment of the boats and life-preservp,rs, and that howitzers for throwing lines, and all the modem inventions for assisting shipwrecked crews to land, and n11memus houses furniиhed with fuel, &c., for their preservation and comfort on reaching Shore, have be-en provided by that admirable society, "bich also pays for the keeping of all the apparatus in good order, and causes a frequent inspection by Captain R. B. Forbes of all the details, with liberal power to repair and improve and re-arrange what may be necessary. I have sent yon a sketch showing the stations occupied, and also printed lists of them. I have lately been favored by a visit from Captain Forties. He agrees that all the most important sites are occupied, and says it would require careful consideration to select others. I read t-0 him the instructionи to show him the views of the Treunry Department on the rubject, and he evinced great interest and zeal in it. He made the very proposition tha.t I previously mentioned to you, viz: thttt the department should plttce the boats under the ca.re of the society, which would t.ake the proper care of them, uae them to the best advantage, a.nd accept them on the terms proposed. I a.m clearly of the opinion tha.t it would be decidedly the best course to pursue, should it be determined to devote the four bo8'11, 8ll originally proposed, to the service of the Massachusetts coast; as that may be decided by the greater necessity of other points on .the Atlantic sea-board, such as the coast of New Jersey, where 80 many wrecks occur, the vicinity of Cape ]ia.tteras, &c., and the number- of boats at the disposal of the department, or already placed at the latter points, of which I have not the means of information. Should the life-boats be few in proportion to the necessities, it llhould be borne in mind that the MBSl!achuaett.s Humane Society have received a donation of $5,0-00 from the general government of the United States some time since. I forwarded to you agreements signed by suitable persons at N ausett and Coh1issett. But I must observe, that, to have them take the proper care, some allowance should be made. The use of the boats would be of no service to individ11a.ls, except in cases of shipwreck, RI! they would require so many persons to launch, managA, and bani th11m up. They could only be brought into service in son1e great event iu the neighborhood, calling people together a.nd exciting them, a.s the calls of humanity and the prospect of some gain always do our much defamed seacoast men and wreckerи, whose skill, daring, and success are themes of admiration to all who ham the best opportunities of judging thPm. No difficulty would be found in getting persons to watch over the boats, ventilate Blld clean them ; but it could hardly be expected that they should be at the expense of painting them or building boat sheds. The иhedd and wheels for transportation t.o spoLs for launching, (which spots vary with direction of gale,) should be furnished as part of the fixtures of the boats. Rough sheds might be built, and trucks provided, for about one hundred or one hundred and fifty dollars ea.ch boat, and I recommend that they be provided. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, H. S. STELLWAGEN, Lieutenant United States Na"IJ, Assistant in Coad SunJey.

Prof. A. D.

BAoRE,

Sttperinttntknt U. S. Coast SUTT1ey, near Pkillips, Maine.

APPENDIX No. 11 .. Letter ef the Superintemlent ef the Caast Survey to the Secretary ef tlte Treasury, transmitting extracts fr<>m a letter ef Lieut. Comg. H. 8. Stellwagen, United States Navy, assutant in the Coast Survey, in relation to a rock in th.e harbor of Gloucester, Massachusetts.
COAST StrRVE1' STATION,

Nor;emhcr 22, 1853.

Srn: I have the honor to transmit, for the consideration of the Light-house Board, the accompanying e:itracts from a
letter ofLie11tenaut Commanding H. S. Stellwageu, United States Navy. MSi$tant in the Coast Survey. iu relation to a rock in the harbor of Gloucester, M8llsachusetts, with the additional recommendation that a buoy be placccl upon it as early &a practicable, unless its removal is soon provided for. I would request that this letter and its enclosures may be transmitted. to the Light-house Board. Very respectfully, y1>urs, &c., A. D. BA.CHE, Srtperintmttkm. Hon. J.un:s GoT&Rn:, &crda"1J oftl.. 'TreaBNry.
PHILADELPHIA, No"61RIJer 20, 1853. и Saa: и и и * и .,. и * и The rook. is very small in diameter, and ri1es very abruptly. We anchored the boat and took about a hundred soundi~s

the apex oould j11ilt lie fuund with a lead or pole, and at 11 distance of fuur or live feet the depth would incre&11e from nine and ten feet suddenly to tw;:,nty and twenty-one. Y01t will perceive that it is in the track of V6Bflela which enter by hundreds into the inner harbor, particularly in the llt!hing -son olf the coast. The rock I taink can be easily removed by a blast, and should be attended to llOOD. 'l'he harllor is fl() good and so important ~ to merit great ~Dl!ideration. . . Oaiy & auftlclent 1111111ber of sounding. h&ve beep oopiOO on the tracing to Bbow the general depth, &c., m the Dfll8hborhood of ~roelt. .. и .. .. и и

Very respectfully, yoor obedient aervant,

Licratl. Cintvи ~ 8tMea Nng, AuMuи ;,. C..ut /Jflrlldrи

H. S. STELLWAGEN,

46*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 12.
Letler from the Supcrintt'Tldent ef the Coast Survey to the Secretarv ef the Treasury, transmitting extracts from the report <:l Lieut. Comg. H. S. Stellwagen, United States Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, upon the discovery <if soundings ef thirty-six fathoms to tlte e(l.ltward <f Fippenia Ledge, east ef Boston.
CoAsT S1rnv1:v STATION, NEAR PmLLIPs, :MA1NE, No'DembБr 16, 1853. Srn: I have the honor to infonn the department, that having been apprized by George W. Blunt, esq., of New York, of

the supposed existence of a bank of forty fathoms about ninety mileeиeast by compass from Boston light, the hydrographic party employed on the Nantucket shoals was instructed to search for it 11.Dd detennine its position. In accordance with these instructions, Lieut. Comg. H. S. Stellwagen, United States Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, in charge of that party, despatched Lieut. T. B. Huger, in the schooner "George Steers," one of the veSBels of the party, for tha~ purpose. The report of that officer is enclosed llerewith, from whirh it will be seen that soundings of thirty-six futhows were had near the spot designated, in latitude 42░ 47' R, and longitude 69" 13' W., where one hundred fathoms uppear upon tho charts. The surfЦJe of the spot giving these soundings is about three miles in extent north 11nd south, and two east and west, with thirty-eight and forty fathoms around it. This bank is probably J<'ippenies bank, the true positioII of which is further to the eastward than is laid down in the charts. A further ex8U.liuation will be nwle as soon l>A the season permits. I wohld respeetfolly request authority to publish thls notice. Very respectfully, yours, &c., Hon. Juu:s
GUTHIUE,

Secretary of t!l8 Treasury.

UNITED ST.lTES SURVEYING SoHOONER "GWRGE STEERS,"

Glouuster, Mass., October 19, 1853. In obedience to your order of the 12th instant, I proceeded, by courses laid down in a letter from Mr. Blunt, (to Prof. Bache,) in search of the ~hoal spot to the southward and eastward of Fippenies bank. I commenced sounding on line No. 1 about IO a. m. on the 16th, but found no bottom with seventy-five fathoms line up and down until between 5 and 6 p. m., when I found seventy fathoms on line No. 6, ha~ng in the menu time run over the shoal sp-ot as marked by yon on the diagram. The wind being light and variable, I made the best traverse I could, and sounding as often 8.IJ practicable with the small number of men l had, but found no bottom again umil a little after meridian on the 17th, when I struck forty fathoms, a.nd endeavored to follow the line of soundings. I was struck with a. strong tide rip, in appearance the same as those off the Nantucket shoalii, trending to the northward and westward. I ran one line along the eastern edge, sounding in thirty-six, thirty-eight, and forty fathoms; another line through the middle <)f it; and, before lea.Ying the ground, a line on the southern edge. I am disposed to think that there are sernral different knolls, with a depth varying from thirty to seventy fathoms, not now laid down on the chart. The character of the bottom, 31! far 88 I was able to obtain it, was coarse sand in the thirty fathoms water, and soft mud in the deeper w11ter. I remain, respectfnlly, &e., your obedient servant,
SIR:

T. B. HUGER, Lieut. U. S. Na"Y.
Lieut.
Comg.

H. S. SrELLWAGEN, u,.ited Statu NafJY, Assistmit iи Coast SurDelJи

и
Massachusetts.
DEAD.

APPENDIX No.13.

Report ef George A. Fai7ftdd, Esq., sub-assistant i1t the Coast Survey, to the Superintendent, upon the location of a tide-gauge on the beach at Sicuconsett, on the outside '!/.Nantucket uland,
NA1'TtrcxltT, &pt..,,U,sr lB, 1853. Sia: Your letter of the 12th was reeeived laat night, on my return from Hyannis. In accordance with your request, I make the following report of my operii.tions in establishing the tide.'.gaugo at Siaa-

My ftrat objeet wu to aelect the mQSt suitable place for laying the pipe. .As the be11ch fur a mile or two from Sialoonи &ett presented the 88llle appe11rance, and as yon wished it placed 88 near the village u practicable, l determined to l&y it directly oppOflite, though the shore there is very unfavorable. There is a bluff of about thirty feet in height, againat .which the sea breaks sometimes in violent storms. From this blu:tfthe t>each, which is of ooarse 11&11d, elope$ very gradually for about one hundred feet, and thllll f&lls oft' very steep to the water. JUllt beyond low-water inn.rk the 1'eaoh again falls o1f, and formи a ridge. . . и I made one or two changes in the plan aent to me, namely: Inetead of. leaving the Ollter or -WllJ'll 8lld of the pipe turned up, with a large strainer upon it, I earried the pipe out straight, and let it ptojeet abont eigllt or1;en Jeet beyond the ridge below low-w&ter me.rk, and in place of the l&rge strainer, which would present a. pat llUl'lii.eo to the water. I plugged up the end of the iron pipe, and drilled fonr TOWS of holes in the pipe, about two inchee apart, alld woond a piece of fine eopper nettmg, with a mesh of about !и12th of an inob, around the pipe, ao a to eover'llll the :holes, and .ecured It tirmly with large oopper Wire. T.he Mlv11111'4ge of this arnmgement ii! the small surr.oe fur the ae& llO aet upon, the io:lpttallibllity, &lllOSt, of this Jilter ever clogging up with Slll'ld or seaweed, and it does away with the .neeeasity having a eenWи pile to steady it. .The other change was in the vertieal part. As the pipe waa only tW<> lnehea fn diameter, I mund, by trial, that a float of that di.allieter, .capable of supporting the staft', wbieh oUly weipt ooe pound, would have to be nearly three feet in llllllth, wbioh of (IOtlra6 would reqaire that the horizontal pipe be three fe~ lower than would ocbeniae: lie aeceuary. lllatead, therefum, of diltiиtiae iron pipe for the vertical иput. I ha.4 a ~ ftoa~ box made, YaterиfiiPt,

eolll!ett.

m

OF THE; UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

six inches diameter inиide, and screwed the iron pipe into it near the bottom. By this weans I got a copper float tha.t would supp-0rt the stud" in two inches of water. The pipe is of wrought iron, in lengthsJ>f about ten feet, screwed together with iron couplings. I commAnce1l at the seaward end to lay the pipe. I screwed four lengths of it together; and, stopping the inner end with an ir-0n screw-plug, to prev~nt the sand from getting in, I succeeded without much difficulty in getting them down below low-water level. Dut the next day, when we went to dig down to screw on another len~th, we found it to be impOBsible, for this reason: we collld not keep th<i end of the pipe already laid clear enough of sand to enable us to serew on another length; for the moment we got down to the level of the water the sand was all alive, and as fast almORt as one shovelful was taken out another would run in. Although we had the trench planked up at the sides and ends, the sl!Dd would run in underneath, and the surf would break over. And in that way we were prevented from getting any more lengths on. As we were working in two or three feet of water, we had to go entirely by the sense of feeling; and any sand at all in the thread of the screw would pre"Vent it from working. I saw at once that I should encounter the same difficulty иwith every length, and determined to begin at the inner end, and work out. For more than a week after this the surf ran so high that I could do nothing. FinalJy, I succeeded in taking up the four lengths already laid, and commenced digging at the inner end. \Ve had to move an immense mass of sand. for the trench ho<} to be dug thirty feet wide at the top, and about twelve or fifteen deep; and the sand ha.d to be shovelled over three or four times in order to get it out, and to prevent the sides from caving in. As soon as "'e reached water-which we did before we got down to the le.-el of the sea-we planked up the sides, and made a sort of coffer-dam, which we kept digging nuder and sinking. I saw that I could never get it down in separate lengths, neither could I lay it all in one piece, on account of the surf rushing in upon us if I opened the outer end of the trench, which served ae a bulkhead to keep the surf out. I therefore had a flexible joint made, by taking a piece of lead pipe four feet long, and soldering an iron coupling to each end of it I then screwed together two lesgtbs of pipe, and screwed one end into the wooden float-box, and on the other end screwed the flexible joint; then screwed 1mother length of pipe on the other end of the flexible joint; and then, bending the lead pipe at right-angles, so that the third length of irun pipe WRR vertical, I placed box, pipe and all, in the trench, and by digging and working the qnicksand from nnder it, and putting weight on the pipe, I succeeded in getting it down below the level of low water. I then took up my planking, and extended the trench so as to take iu three or four more lengths of pipe. .After hanng dug down until the men were up to their middle nearly in wp.ter, I screwed on more pipe and another flexible joint, and bent the first joint back again, so that the pipe was straigh.t. By using two of these joints, I laid pipe euough to enable me to lay all the rest in one piece at the next digging. After getting it all down in this manner the surf broke in, and washed the sand all in again, and filled up the trench. Within a day or two after this we had a very remaTkable low oourse of tides. At high water the staff read about what it generalJy does at low water. There was not more than a foot rise 11.od fall. At the same time, I was told, at New &dford the tides were very high. The fishermen here said they had never seen such low tides. The consequence was, that at low water the &at box was dry. As I bad laid the outer end of the pipe nrerly a fuot lower than the inner end, the strainer was never out of water, but always covered, even 11.t the lowest tide. I then thought that if I were to dig down to the pipe, and, by bending the inner flexible joint, could succeed in getting the sand from under the box and the two inner lengths of pipe. and lower them, it would answer every purpose; for, although the middle lengths of the pipe would be nearly a foot higher than the end11, it woul_d act as a syphon. I adopt<ld this plan; and by scttiug seven or eight men at work we sucooeded in getting"the tw'o lengths and the box down about nine inches lower. We got them down as far as possibie, until we came to red clay, and stones as large as my head. I then tried the staff an& float, and found that there was plenty of water at low tide; and, believing that it waи aB low as it could possibly be got, and tliat it would embrace any range of tides they will ever have here, I filled in again, and engaged an ohиerver to record the tides. It hae now been in operation nearly two weeks, l!Dd aeems to work very well indeed. The tides are very irregular, and there ill not over two feet, and sometimes but one, of rise and fall. Yonrs, respectfully, &e., и G. A. F.AffiFIELD, Sub-.Aamtaat. Prof. A. D. B&oHJC, Syerimemknt Coast Sunieg.

.

*47

APPENDIX No.14.
RepQrt R. Palmer, United States TQpographU:al Engineerи, assi&tartt in the COlllt to the Superintendent, upon the reconruiissance cf the Rappahannock river, Virginia, from Fredericksburg to Chesapeake bay.
~urvey,

ef LUw.t. W.

B&LTIVORE, N011ember:U, 1852. Dua S11t: In conformity with your instructions of the 17th instant, I 1ubmit a report of the result of my first euraory

enmination of the &ppablllltlOOk river. и 1'he Rappahannock may be divided into three sections: lint s<lction, from Fredericksburg t;o Port Royal, thirty five to ii>tty miles. At Fredericksburg the river is one hundred to one hundred and twenty yarda wide, and one wile below, at Barna.rd'и, about ninety yards; henoe, t.o Port RoyM its width varies from one hundred and twenty to four hundrtld yards. The banka of the river are generally higher in thU eeetion thAn below, from thirty to eighty feet; they are usually eloping, bUt at .aev~ral points are perpendicular, and, becoming undermined, portiollll 1illl oft' into the river. They are skirted witli woOcl~> che11tnut, pine, &11h, gum, and sycamore, being the principal "Varietiea, but oo heavy timber; betweea the "Woodyard" and" Hopyard" is from fifteen tot tweuty-two miles; below Frederiekaburg the wood is quite dense, and oonsid.erable autting may be required here; there 11.nl all;lo marshes bare of wood in tbi.8 section. The meanderingll 1}f the river are greater here than below, and the obstruction5 to na'Vigation are IDQre freq11eut; the fint, le1111 t:Jum eae tilile below Fredericksburg, at "lluel'e Bar." At ordinary high water, (the tide ris.ell about three feet nine inobee Ure,) eight f.eet can be carried ever thll! i.u; it ia !lmdy and l11UJ.py. The second obstruction ia a aandy ahoal of the ~ ....;Ji, tw6 milllll below. 1'hird, "Spott'a Bar," about eight milea below Fredericksburg, a shoal of similar diarMlter, Ji'rillg, all orilinary high water, a depth of nine &lld a half feet. At -very low water, the steamboat Mary WaahiDc*; drao, aeveu feet, oouches all the ny from Frederlobburg to "S;{l!>tt'и Bar." At "Hou' Neolt," elgat milea

48*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

below" Spott's Bar," this shoal extends for two miles, but ten feet can be had at or!nary high water; llllldy, perhaps some clay. and lumpy. No other obиtructious in this section. The etfect of the freshets is ofcotltse greater here than below; the spring freshets usuallyo1Jea.sion a rise Qffifteen feet; in 1846, and again in 1852, the waters rose no less than twenty feet at Fredt>ricksl>0rg; they sub.Ude very rapidly, frequently in twenty-fuur hours; freshets a.ls11 take place in the fall, but are not so great as those of spring; this year one occurrtid in July. The water is fresh, or very nearly eo, in this portion of the river. , Second seetioa, from Port Royal to Tappahannock, a distance of thirty-five to forty miles, the width of the river vari~s from three hundred yards to more than oae mile; just below Tappahannock, it spreads to near two miles wide. The banks do not a.ver&ge a.s groa.t an elevation a.sin section one, although the highest bluff upon the river is at "Smith's woodyard," about twenty-five miles below Port Royal. This blu1f is one hundred and twenty feet high, of clay chiefly; both banks &Te wooded similar to section one: there are also marshy flats in this section. Although the river is crooked, it is not quite so irregular in its eonrse as above. The obиtructions are, first, at Port TobagQ bay, eight miles below Port Roya.I; between ten and eleven feet can be carried over this bar at ordinary high water, but the channel is narrow. Second, "Green bay," three and a half miles further, of the same depth as at Port Tobago bay. Third, about five miles above TappA.hannoek, near Taylor's Hole, is a shoal giving at ordinary high water between nine and ten feet only, hard sand intermixed with clay, in lumps, probably a deposite from Tappahannock creek. The channel is crooked here; the water is brackish. There are hut two is?Mids of any size," Paine's island," a marshy tlat, and" Mulberry island," five to eight feet high; this could be cultivatea. Each of these contains perhaps one hundred acres. . Third section, from Tappahannock to the month of the river, said to be seventy miles: I estimate it at between lit1;y and lifty-tive. From TappahannO<lk: tn Urbanna may be twenty-five to thircy, an? from Urbanna to the Chesapeake twenty to twenty-five wiles. Throughout thislower portion, the river is from two to upwards of three miles wide. The banks are generally less elevated-that is, adjacent to the shores-as the h4:her land recedes, and is often from one to two miles back from the river. Although the river changes its direction in this section, it is much less crooked than in sections one and two. The obstructions are, first," Bowleo's Rocks," thirteen miles below Tappo.hannock; these a.re said to be b.anks of oysters conglomerated, only three feet below the surface at low water. The light-boat stationed here warns the navigator from approaching too near them. Below this point there seems to be no further obstruction to the navigation of the Rappahannock. The water is salt here. The upper pon:ion of the river is quite muddy; below Tappahannock the water of the Chesapeake predominates. The velocity of the current is about one knot the hour. The tributaries are Piscatawa river, Toteskey creek, Moratica creek, Curratoma. river, and Carter's creek; none can be called very considerable. There are several small townи or villages on the banks of the Rappahannook: Port Royal, forty miles below Fredericksburg, contains one thousand inhabitants; Tappahannock, six h1mdred to eight hundred; and Urbanna, one hundred to one hunilred and fifty; and others smaller. No rock formation is to be found l>etween the falls at Falmouth (one mile above Fredericksburg) and its mouth. The Clistanee is said to be, by the pilots and others, .one hundred and nfty-five miles from }'retlerieksburg, by the river, to the Ch011ape&ke. I do not think it exceeds one hundred and thirty miles. I aw, very respectfully, your obedient aervant, W. R. PALMER, и Lieut. Topographkal Engi-rs, and Assialant i11 U. s. CotUt SarDey. Prof. ./J.. D. 13.o.cm:, Superintendent U.S. Coa;rt SunJeg, Wil"ungton, N. C.

Report ef Lieut. CQ1fl.g. J. J. Almy, U. S. Navy, <USistant in tlte CQrut Sunиey, tQ the Superintendent, upon the observations ef ojf shore tides, with a gauge recured to a tripod, seaward Skoal. inlet, Virginia.
U. 8.ll()o.o.sT
SoRVl!Y

и

APPENDIX No. 15 и

ef Sand

Sn:u1:1:R

uHl!TZl!L,"

CouNTT, V....... Jul11 12, 18511. Srn: It gives me pleasure to report to yon that I have at llM!t been enabled to ca.rrv into eifect your instructions in regard t<> observing off-shore tides by the Jlo&ting tide-rod, in & box eeeured to a tripod, after the plan of the model which ia in the Cout Survey oflice. Want of time, diaadvantage of locality, and other cireumstancee, have hitherto prevented me from doing this the two previous &eMOns in which I have .1uperinteoded hydrographic operations upon this coast. Oft' eeaward of Sand Shoal inlet, outside of the иbar, partially protMted from breakers and high, rolling eurf, and from the wind also, when to the southward I found a oomparatively smooth place, having two and two and a quarter :fathoDll of water, and diatant exactly two na;iaical miles from the tide-staff in the inlet, and one and a half nautical miles from the nearest land. Upon tbe eecond tria.1, and upon the eecoud day after comme1Wing work upon it, we llUCCeeded in ge~ng the tripod, with its fifteen hundred pounds ballast, overboard, and w atand upright and firm. That very nisht, however, we were visited by some terrific squalls, which CMted, and partially dtlDlDlished it. The next day we went out wltb. the ateamer, gvt hold of the several parts of the tripod, hoisted it on board, aecnred it all 11rfresh ag&lll.и i& .eo.coeufully. и overboard to stand upright, and where it remained firm and secure, to enable me to have tidee obeerv for-4ap ont of Dina-that ii, kiglt aad seven low tides-and to epmpare them with tides observed in. the it!~- .No 4oubt tha experimen$ иould h&ve been much more tatisfa.ctory could the tripod have l>een planted f11rther aea:wua. so.,. to 81l!Nl4~ But I did the bm which could have been done, and had oonsiderable dillieulty, as it waa,to rig a~t1 it lltallil secureq. Herewitli I eead you a slu1tch of ltl! position, and the position of the tid&-11talf in the inlet. I a.l.so 116lld. a copy o( the import&llt portions: of thit records, by Which it will De Beell ~ there WIMI hilt little dilference ht. tile times Of high lllld low water, aod the riee and fall of tide. и и и I will remark that die greatest care was obaerred in noting the tidea at the tripod d afiore; tllllt they Wel'f,l llotl!d иhy myelf, Lieut. Perry, awl A.cdai lUBter Law-one or the other of ua alftJии . и и I. am, sir, VfYrf respeetfully, yoW' o~t ..ervan$, и
EAST TU.LE, NoRTBAMPTON

иJot

L .... ~. V.B. lf.,

30.IUl J, .&.UIY,

.._in Cod..,,.,.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 18&3.

*49

Records t>f tides obserиed at rmиresponding times at Sand Shoal inlet, and outgide of tl1.e bar, sear.oa.иt of Virginia, .Tuly, 1853.

D t

a.e.

--- ------------------и
1853.

I

I i

Loca!iiv.

и

i Time of high Time of low ' Dnrntion Duration I water.* . waHJr.* i of !lrnid. и of eh!>.
f

Rise.

I

k. m. July Tnp1>d off.shore ..иииии.и.иииии.иииииии.и -1 4 Jf, p. m. 2 Tide-staff in inlet. ииии.и.ииии.и.ииии..и.и. \ 5 20 p. 3 Tript>d off-shore .ииии....и.ии.и.и...и...и. i U ()() p. ID. I 3 i Tide-staff in inlet. иииии..ииииии.ииииииииии ~ ;Ф) p. lll.' 4 I Tripи>d -01f-shore ..иииии.иииииииииииииииии 6 oo .a. m. 5 30 a. m. 4 Ti~e-staff in iulet ...иииииииииииииииииииии 6 I T~tpod -0lf;иh?re .иииииии.иииииииииииииииии 7 30 a. m. i 6 1 T1de-staJf in mlet .иииии..ииии.ииииииииии 7 50a. m. 8 OOa. m. 7 I Tripod ofi:shore .иииииии.ии...и.ииии..ии. 8 !Jtla.m. 7 i Tid<'-staff in inlet ...иии...иии..и...и...и. 8 T~ipod off;sh~re .иииии...ииииии.иииииииии. : 8 4.J a. m. S 4() a. m. ~ / ;r1?e-stalf. !u rnlet .ииииии.иии _и.и _ии.ииииии 9' Tripod ufl-ohore .ииииииииииииииии.ииииииии 1 9 fJO a. 111. 9 I Tide-staff in inlet.ииииииииииииииииииииии ии 1 9 30 a. m.
j'

I . 2 :
I
!

I

-----и1---Ii. 111. 6 00
7 7 6
1

m.:

Ii. 111. 10 15a.m.
H 4lla. m. 11 iio a. m. 11 Ill a. m.

Ii.

m.

.q. i~. I ft. in.
3 8 i ииииии

1-3
3 3
3
(j

l Fall.

1 иииииии : ии

1

'ииииииииии 4 l Iии и... t 4 0 !.ии.ии i 20 1~:::::~:=: 3 8 ; ....ии 12 15 p. m. i .иииииииии , 6 1" ииииииi 3 0 1 .. ииииI 3 I

oo

40

i ~~ :и. :: ':::: :::::: j
1

~ !~
5

!

; g~~::: i::::::::::i p. iииииииииии :
2 30
lll.

1 IOp.m. [ииииии ииии[ I 3llp.m. ,ииииииииии: 2 on p. m. ~--ии иииии. 2 15 p. m. . иии...и.. I

5 20 5 30 6 oo
30

------i
иииии.

и-ииииI иии---1

6 5
7 5
6

~ ~
5 00

ии-иии' 3 ииииии \ 3

ииии-и'1
ии-иии

3 5 3 4

иThese times of high and low water require a correction (to be added) of
RECAI'ITULA.flON.

2'4 minutes.

'

Difference of time. Date. High water. h. m. 1 05 -0 30
0

I

I Difference of
rise or fall.

\

Lowwuter.
h. m. -0 3;;

July

ft. in.
0

2

3 4 6 7 8 9

-0 30 0 20

....:.o

0

IO

-0
()

03 02

25

01
00

-o
0

00

05
30

и -o

-0 05 0 30 0 15

0 0

02

--0

30

-0

01 01

NoTE.-The minus sigt. denotes tide-water, or rise or fiill greater oft' shore than in inlet.

Nnmber of obseI"Vations in which tide was earlier off shore than at inlet 3. and the revM!hl 3, for high water; number of low waters in which tide was lacer otf shore :J, and the reverse 4. High waters simultanelluи once. The sum of the posiи tive di!forences is Lb. 55m. for high water, and of the vegative lh. O;)m.; total, 50m. Por low water the sum of the positive dilferenoes. is .litи. 55m., and of the negative 1h. 3jm.; total, :2ilm. These Jilforencea._divided by the number of tides, (seven.) gives for high water an average of Sm. nearly, and for low water of .3m. nearly. High water was, on the ave rag~, 8m. earli1>r, and low Wdter 3m. lacer, off shore than at the inlet. Both these are lessи than the averag"' uncertainty of the ditforence. For rise or foll there are three positive and three negative results, and one zero. The sumo' the prHitive results is 6 incb.e~, of tlrn negative 4 inи1hes. Final result 2 inches; which. divided by 7, the number of oh8erva.tions, gives .3 of an incli for one risi;, or fall, which is less than the uncertainty of the di!ferenoo и

.

APPENJ;>IX No. 16.
Letter of the Superintendent of the Ooa~t Survey to tlte Secretary of tlte Treasury, tranJmitting the rep&1"t of Lieut. CaTn{!;и J. J. AJ.my, (J. S. Navy, aisista..nt in the Coast Survey, upon tke determination of two important and, dangerous shoals lying at the entrance into Chesapeake hay.
Oou-r SuitVl!lY SиrAT!ON, "It.AR P11tLL1n, Muirn, A~t 29, 1853. Sm: I hue the honor to transntlt a copy of & feport fr-0m Lieut. Comg. J. J. Almr. U.S. Navy, assistant in the Coast S11rvey, upnn the ruitormination of the p1Jsitions or two importruit and dangerous shиnli hing oft" the e11Stern shore of Vir~. at the ent~~" into Chesapeake b1ty, and which are not laid down upon any ex:isti1H( map. The outar shoal JieФ E. by S. ! S., {true,) dilltant seven 1111.utieal. miles from &nith's Maud light-house, with :Ii fa.tlioilla upon it at low thlit, aad 7 ~ between it l:llld the land. Thia BhKl lies very neu.rly in the tr11ck Qf ve&&els bowid in and

7

50*

REPOR'.f 0 I<' THE SUPERINTENDENT

out of Chesapeake bay, from and to tho northward and eastward. The inper shoal lies SE. by E., (true) di;otant fonr and three-quarter nautical miles from Smith's Island light-holllle, with 17 feet upun it ai; low water, and 5 fii.tholllil between it arul the land. I would rc~pectfolly request authority to publish this inforlU1\tion. _ и Very respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BA.CUE, Superintendeat. Ron, J,urn:s GuTHRIE 1 &crttary oftlit T~easiwy.

UNITED BTATl!s CoAsT

SuRVEY ST1u:иnm "HETz:u.,"

CapБT>ilw, Nurtltampton Collllfy, Va., August 17, 1853. S1R: In the course of my soundings lately off Smith's иisland, seaeoa.st of Virginia, I have come upon and est~blhhed the po@itions of two import&nt and dangerc>us shoals. One of these (the outer shoal) lies E. by 8. ;t S., (true,) distant st.,en nautical mileи from Smith's Island lig1Lt-ho1ise, with 3~ fathoms upon it nt low water, and 1 fathoms water between it and the land. This is a smlill иhoal, with an extent of abo11t :WO feet in a NE. an<l SW. direction, where 3! and 3! futbows are to be found, and with four fath╗ms extendi111( 'lOO yards, when it deepens off suddenly all !\round into 5, 6, and 1 fathoms . water. 'J he other (inner shoal) lies~- hy E., (true) ilistantfour mid tliree-quarlcr nautical miles froJ!1 Btnith's Island lighthonиe, with 17 foet water upon it at low tiile, and 5 fathoms water between it arnl the land. This is a large ~h<>a.l in extent, running a quarter of a mile, with not over 3~ fathoms upon it. As there is l>nt little va1иiation of the compass, only two <legrees less than a q)Lиnter of a point, I have given the tJ:'ue bearin~s, wbi~h I think will ;mffice and -prevent conflli.ion. Smith's Island light-house is in latitude 37░ 07' 46'' north, and longitude 75░ 5:.!' 53' west. Like all t"be shoals upon this part of the coast, the direction of their forrnnti(ln is nearly paraUel with the иland-northward and eastward, aud southwa1иd and w<>stward-with hard, sandy bottom, conrse light, grey, white, yellow, and red sand, with broken shells. I do not claim these as discoveries, as there have been report~-vngue and contradictory, to.be su1иe-of shoal-water being in the vicinity of where these have been found. They are not down, hnwever, 11pon any publtshed chart. Some few sea captains and pilots have reported having been upon thesB shoals; other captains anJ pilots have posit!vely denied the existence '1f them, saying that if there was sht:ta\-water ah1>nt there, they certrunly would have seen it durmg a course of ye ..rs which they have been sailing about there. J have crossed these shua.ls several times, and also a.nchoted 'и upon them, in order to fully .-erify their existence and exaet position. J3y a glance at the chart it will be seen that the outer shoal lies very nearly in the track of vessels going out <>f Chempeake bay, bound t-0 the no1-thward anil eastward, or coming into the bay from the northward and eastward. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

U.S. N., Lieut. Comg.,
Prof, A. D. BAcBI!, Superintentlmt Coast Survey.

* JOHN in J. ALMY, Coast Sunleg.
:'As~tant

APPENDIX No. 17.
Letter of the Superintendent the Coast Surveyи to tlte Secretary of the Treasury, reporting the ~iscovcry by Lieut. Comg. T. A. Craven and Lieut. Comg. J. N. Maffitt, U. S. N., assistant$ in tlte Coast Sunиey, ef a bank lying to tlte east ,W tlte Gulf Stream.
и Sn.ATTis STAT10i<, Kitl'INE╗EO Co,, 'MAIH1t, July 23., 1853. Sm: I have the honor to communicat.e the interesti11$( discoveries made by Lieut. Comg. T. A. Craven and Lieut. Corng. J. Y. Maffitt, U. S. Navy, assistants in the C-01u1t Survey, in their reeent cruises for tile exploration of the Gulf Stream aoutb of Charleston. Iu running tho section acrosa tbe Gulf Stream from Charlel!ton, PM~eиl Midshipman Jones, of Lieut. Comg. Maffitt's pnrty, in charge of the CoaBt Survey schooner "Crawford," diaoovered that llOunding~. could be kept at deptha less than siit hundred fathomo entirely acros1 the stream, bottom being brought up. Beyond the Gulf Stream the soundingи corre.;poni\ with those laid down upon the bank struck by Lieut. Comg. Craven further south. Tbe ~и Crawfurd" was 011 this bank on the 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th. On the 7th bottom was brought np from 300 athoms, in, 111titmle 31░ 37' and longitude 78░ 3:~'. On the lUth of Jw:ie, in running the MICtlon of the,.G\IJ,f Stream from Cape Canaveral, Florid&, aftor crossing the stream Lieut. Corug. Craven obtained oomidings In 460 fatboms, 1111d the bottom was brought, up in I11titude ~o 24~' north, f.nd longitude 7\l'-' ()5' west. The shoa\ thus independently disoovered by Lieuts. COID!!и Maffitt ..00 Craven was again struck by the latter in the cross-sections from St. Augustine, ]i'Jorida; St. Simons, Ga., and Charl.ei!t<>n, 8. A full examination of this gl'onnd, which is probably connected with. the Bahama BallM, l:ill be made 110cn; The specimens of bottom brougnt up are deposited in the Coast Sun-ey office. I WQuld respectfully-request authority to publish tbia noti,ee. Yours respectfully,

ef

o.

APPENDIX No. 18.
Extracts from tile report of Lieut. James Totten, U. S. 4rmy, assi#ant. i11. the O()ast Su~, inи и regard tQ. the climate, soil, and cltaractcr ef die F.wrl:ia, Keys.
. . Nsw i..oiiD011, CloNN., OФobci~ 1853.. A few re~k11 11li!-f 11'1t be Gut of place here i1uee.a -to tile geograpbieal poaitious, clhnate, quality of soil, and g~eral ellaraeter Of the;.11l>~ Kera;oow umlerи~n,

DuR Sm:

. и

и

"

"

*

"

OF 'rHE UNITED STATES CO.A.BT SURVEY FOR 1853.

*51

in view of the lands there-0f being thrown into market by the government. A. very large number of these keys, and those particularly of which ~и"iиh to be undernt-O<>d to speak, lie within the meridians and parallels passing through the two points, Ca[le .Florida imd Sand Key. The pl)sition of Cape Florida is in latitude 23░ 39' 52' north, and longitudtf81░ 05' west, and Saud Key is ia llttitude 24░ 27' 10" nortb., and lojgitude 81░ 52' 43" west, "'itbin the limits mentioned there may be anywl:\ere between five hundred and one tbou~and keys or isbncls, counting large and smull. The number has nut yet been ascertained -1;ith any degree of aceur.acy, and cannot be until the survey is eompleted. Th1l climate of the keys is perfectly salubrious and pleasnnt during tho winter monthи; and ernn in the summer, owing to the almOl!t constant breezes, much may be said eonunen<lat<1ry of it in this respect. Owing to the d ..lightful cha.meter of their climate, I am of opinion that it will eventually be ascertaiued and 1.,иonceded that these keys are particularly well adapted to the rcsideiie-0 of those afilicted with pulmonary complaints. Slight ch,.nges iu temperature, anil their rellulurity, cmnbined with continued mildness, is understood to be what is sought for by imиalids of this class, and I believe that such persons will come as neur finding this amid the Florida Keys as jn any other p1>rt of the United St.ates. The best wil of the Florida Reys cannot be compared in fertility \\"ith mauy parts of that on the main land of r'lorid:t, and a large nwnber of them may, without prejudice, be pronouuced entirely worthless for any kind of agricultural puq>oses. The soil on tho bett.er class is composed, in a gre':"t measure, 9f theи sand resultiug from the g-rindiog up, wearing away, or disintegration of the eorll.l rockи and shells, and of decayecl veg~table matter accumulated there duriug past ~es. It is usually found to contain within it large collections of undecayed shells and solid coral rock, and often lies upon compuct and extensive beds of an apparently stratified coral fonnation. Notwithstanding the peculiarities of tke soil, the better class of tile keys are found to yield many very desirable and useful tropical fruits in perfection, and also many of the now common and useful vegetables. Vegetables are not, however, produced iu very great perfection upon the keys, nnd yet they c.1m be cultivated to slJch an extent as to answer all the wantи of those who m11v licmafter s11ttle on them. With care and some practienl information as to the best means of proceeding in that climate and soil, much may he accomplishecl in raising vegetables 011 these lands. The lemon, lime, orange, papaya, coeoanut, banana, plantain, pineapple, gua>a. and t.amarind,are 1mme of the tropical fruits l\"hicb hawi been cultivated upon the keys with success, and there are many others not yet tried, which it is evident will flourish equally as well in ihat climate as those I have mentioned. In the cultivation -0f fruits on these keys, in fishing in the adjacent waterи, in making elt, and in other occupations resulting from the settlement of these islands, they would in a few years become the homes of a useful, hardy, 1md happy population, and it would be worth the experiment for government to encourage the project to any reasonahle extent "ithin it.s power. As far as the government itselfiи concerned, I do not hf'sitat1l to say, empbntie.ally, tha.t tliese keys can never be of any great utility as long as they are kept out of market, other than what ruii:ht be derived from them if in private hands. As t-0 the timber upoii them, (for which it is said the government has so long held them,) it is not of a qu11Jity or quantity to make it worth eon!!ideration, w'hen compared with the advantages which would flow to both State and Federal governments from having the keyg well populated, The timber growing upon these islands, as a general thing, may be stated to be too small for the purposes of strOJJg naval construction. Its character is better adapted to the building of the smaller classes of e088ting vessels, sacb as sloops and schooners, and it is believed there is very little, if any, large enough for heavy ships of war. But admitting that this timber D1ay be useful in somo cases to the government, it may be safoly asиerted that itll valQ.e will he very little enhanced, if any, by being in prhиnte hands, as it is the labor of preparation for, and transportation to market, which must lix its value, and these expenses the government does nl)t !\Void by holding posse&Sion of the lands. These being some of the facts relative to the present condition of the Florida Key~. I conceive that the only way in which the government can ever derive any benefit from them is 'by putting them into market at onceи, l)r by giving them away in small portions to actual settlers. If it is possible t-0 induce a number of people to settle upon the . Ian-Os for the eultivatfon of those productions., which the joil and climate are adapted, the most satisfactory result will be obtained which can ever be reasonably anticipated. * " и " и " " " I am, very respectfully, JAMES TO'ITEN, Assistant in U11ited Sta,tes Coast S..niey. Prof. A.. D. BA.CHE, S1.tpui111tmdent URited &ata C4!ast Suf'l'ql.

APPENDIX No. 19.
Report .

ef }1._~

Gerdes, Esq., assistant in the Coast S1trvey, to the Supcrintcni!.e1it, on the prclimiuary survey of tlw entrance into Barataria bay, coa.st qf Loui..siana.

U.S. SURVEYING ScHOONER "GERDF.s.'' on CAILLOU Po111T, Ja,JUUJry 26, 1853. Rm: The Bay of Barataria, opening from the Gulf of Mexico, about fifty miles west of the Balize, aftOrds the first approach to New Orleans onи that side of tho Mississippi; and between this bay and the metro~l:i.s of the south, small ste&mboate end l11gger11 of liJht draught &NJ oomtantly plyil1g. The Inland commusication from the bay ill by :Bayou St. Denis, or by Grfllld Bayou, to Little Lake, thence by Bayon Perot t,o L&ke W asha, aod thence hy a eanal enrering the l\lississippi nearly opposite Carrolton, about ten milea above the cicy; the whole di~ce being abOnt one hundred Jllld ten mil0J1, To d.e&nd the harbor, and prevent 1u1 approach througll this bay to New Orleans, & site for a fortific11.tion was selected at the entrance of the bay, andиsome works bve been erected. и и и A. iul'veJ" of the-entranee Wllt lllade in 1840 by Lieat. (now Major) Beauregard, United States engineers; but the ch&ngea thlll; i.ime, resulting from the strong westerly currents of the Gulf, have boon eo considerable as to rt-oder neceиsary a ree~y In order to. funi:illh a preliminary bArbor-all.etoh lor publication, aceordi11g to your instructions. The following are . . . tt tll1' most marked changea: 1. OU the и1"flllt i!icle of the main p1'118 Ult!> the bay, there was thirteen yearsи ago a unall 8ftlld island called the Brallll e-1и, иwllik tJie ,mn_t of the weetem island '{Grand Im) was nearly a mile further to the southwest, leaving between that ~ and .the .Bra:u bank a fiat. on !!Ollle parts of whieh were frwn aeven to nine feet water. All this ia now dry land. aud ~. :-1 the )':lrau .bank fonns an actual poi11t of Grand Isle~ ~. 0.dib8.' pomt .... of. иthe entran00c, nctai: th.e furt,.tb.e 9ea is making. heavy inroads. Siace the l..t summer, tlte ~~bail и.-~.-g00J11mdred yarils, and tbe new United ~ q11&rtere fur officers are now distallt oalf twentyA ..w itlirtJ PnJe: ~.b~".-r uiark, aud perhaps twice aa 6'r from low-water mark. The ftoot fella& of the enclo-

mooe

иeu . tun и . . .

52*

REPORT 01'' THE SUPERINTENDENT

&ure is washed away, and the place where it st<>otl is below low-water mark. Any continued easterly storms will -0ndanger all th ti 1iiildin)\"и extremely, anll mus~ prove nlrimately fatal e\иen to t11e fort ir.selfif the action of thti water is not checked. 3. A new olrnnnd (wbidи I hani rninw.l tho Eaet channel) has be<m opene~, probably by the combined action of we.terly currents a11d of the ea,terly storm' of laиt year, close along thиbeach at the west point of Graml-terre, separating the east Sambo sltoal from the Rtiore by seve11 f"иer of water. In 1'340, there was only three and a half foet; the depth has been иtlH.n'efore douUlt.~d iu tliirfeen rears. Tl1i~ (иhttnnel i~ of ea~v HФcess. 4. On the bar in the main e lrnnnel, (Gr .. ud Pus~,) The c1ej;th has generally increased. Eight feet cltll now be carried at low ti<lc, and ten feet, ut very full tides. The iucreaиe averages ubunt one foot. Thi'. entrance of thi< bay has bci'n carP-fully R11rveyed, and the ch1trt can be used as a harhor chart. The following operations wert1 perforuwd by the uitl of such instruments as you bad directed me to take out, who~e results in general were very satisfaФt01-r. UR the jonnrnh of ohsen-ations and the documents therewith will sl1Фw. J. A base liue. t:l:!f'. lf> metres iu le11gt.h, wns mensured twice on the falund of Grand-terre, commencing on the Gulf shore 11t the fcnee of F<>retllll'и sugar plantation, mid running acrosl'!. the island in a northwest direction to the old }'Ort LiLfitte. 2. Eight triRngulation иiguals were establiиhed lJy measurement of angles, at four stations, with a G-inch Gambey theodolite. 3. Seven buildings and prominent objeets were determined by the same means. 4. The shore-lines outside and inside were 11ctually surveyed, and all projecting points determined by theodolite and compass. 5. Soundings ovn the bar and in the channels were taken by staff, angles determined by sextant, a~d tidal observations made иluring the time of sounding. . G. Astmnomical observations were taken as follows: 1851!. De .. cmlwr 4 and f>, at Paиcagoula. Transit.R 4 sets stars l'ach. December 31, I<'ort LivitJgston. Trnmits 12 sets stars each. 1853. ,January J, Fort Livingston. Tranиits 12 sets stars tиach. January 11, Fort Livingston. Transits 4 sets Hars each. January 4, Iи'ort Liringston. Observations tor latitutle, zenith telescope, 1 pair stars. January 5, 1?ort Livingston. " " " 5 " January 10, Fort Livingston. Observations for motion of the magnet, with de clinometer, for two hours, at every fh-., seconds . иJan111try 12, Fort Livingston. For variation of the ncedlf>, 3 sets of obsen-ations. 7. A JJJ"elimiuary plotting was ma<l<', the sonndings laid down, and the topogravhy iuserted. The lntitude of the station at Fort Livingswn (иouthwcst angle of the main work) is 29░ 16' 43". 85 north; the azimnth thence reckoned from S. by W. to trigonometrical station at Fort Lafitte, 184░ 15' 52". 3\J; approximate longitude 89░ G4' 30''; mai.;. var. 7░ 3ll' 22". This is quite cln,sical ground in the history nf the United States. Remains of old Fort Lafitte, end of many building!i, are to be s!'en still. It was here that the late Commodore Patterson broke up the freebooters and pirates sailing under the Cartha1<1inian flag; he destroyed the fort, which was mounted with twenty pieces of cannon, diиpersed a force of from eight hundred to one thousand men, of all nations and complexions, and captured seven schooners (one armed, under Carthagenian colors) and one ftиlueca. The whole gang hail been harbodng o:ri the Chenaie islands, Grand hie, and Grand-terre. * и ~ * и и The sites alld localities for light-houses at the entrance of t11tW.iays of Daraltria and Timballier, on the Gulf of Mexico, as proposed in my reports of February and October, 18&3, possess both great advantages, and, as far as I wonld like tn jmlge from my present opinion, and from information receivetl from others, they are of narly equal importance, but both would serve different purposes. A light at the we$t ernl of Isle au Grandc-terre, (B11rataria,) would principally be useful for the navigation of the bay and adjacent waters, such as the Bay of Camisada, wbif'.h contains ииme settlements of considerable size. lи'or the benefit of communication with New Orleans, this site aifords th(l greatest advlllltage, and would also give a direct bearing for crossing the bar from the Gulf. As stated in my first report, there are more than one hundred luggers con~tantly plying between New Orleans and these waters, and most of them have to pass through the Barataria into the Camisnda by the bayous of St. John, Fifi, and Rigaud. Coming from New Orleans, either through the BaratMia or by the Gulf, it is very difficult to distinguish the inlets of these streams from any part of the low marshy and monot:onous coast, and at night it is entirtly impossible. A light-house, l1owever, judiciously placed on the opposite beach, would furnish a direct btиaring to each of them at any time. The erection of a light-house at the east side of Grand P3Ss"int:o the bay of Timballier will be of great advantage to the Gulf navigation between New Orleans and Mobile, with th" Attakltpas sugar и region and Texas. The enclosedи sketch, a reduction of my map of general reconuaiss1u1ee (1fthe Gulf coast west of the Mississippi, will at onceи sustain this opinion, and also show the eastern extension of the Ship shoal, which., i;eeordiug to information, terminates abreast of the Timballier. This bay forms a most excellent harbor of refuge-a fact of which nothin!l' was known, according to the existing charts ; and the proposed loc&lity for the site c01nmands .also the entrance to the inside Ship-~hoal channel, go that a vessel might Jay her course from the _Southwest Pass directly for this light. - This line will cut the large curve of the Gulf, iu which Barataria is situated. It is true that the currents near the Louilliana coast have a northel'ly tendency, and vessels find themselves not unfrequently in sight of Fort Livingston, Bat"atn.ria, or at least at a higher latitude than thy supposed themselvlls to be ; but whenever the proper investigations havo been made, and the currents determined, this will form a difficulty no longer. Having ma.de the Jight-houw st Timb111litlr, and verified her position, nny vessel may follow the coast by soundingи, or even иanchor inside the иhoal in perfect safety. I have aeen the New Orleans revenue cutter, in compl!,lly \\ith two large .schooners, ride out here a. very severe gale of wind Gf two days' duration, perfectly easy, and without any dragging. Timballier light would also give a dirllet bearing iUr the bar of the bay, on "иhieh are el11ven or twelve feet at low tide. , ' B"th light-houeea, therefore, will be very useful-the one at Timballier chiefly for Gulf иlltlvigation, and :fur avoiding clanи ger; the other principally for inland navigation, and fo.eilitating commercial intercoune, eust,ained by the wishes of a large and thriving community- The Ct111Bting trade with the Attakapa.s and Texas, and also tile inland n&Vigation thmugh Baraи tn.ria, ha.s become, ia the last four years, qui.te important, the number of vessels employed in them having been more ~ban doubled- Their trade, therefore, justly claims and deserves attention. и Very respectfully, yonrs, &c., и
0

и ProБ A. D. BAOJU:, &tperitit~ '(]. 8. Coast Snrwg.

. F. H. GERDES, bMont.

0 F THE UN IT E D ST ATE S C 0 AST SURVEY 1'' 0 R 1 8 5 3. и

'*53

APPENDIX No. 20.
R"port qf F. II. Gerdes, Esq., osfistunt in the Cvasr Surre!f, to the Supcrinrewl~nt, on a reconnaissance r!f" tlu: entrana into Timbaltirr bay, coa,~t r!f Louisiana.
U.S. ~eRVEYI~G Scuoo1nи~R "GERDEs," OFF IsLF. lh:RN1s;:RE) Ftlrruary 5, 1853. Sm: The vast quantity of water coming through various large channels, such as Bayou Lafourd1e, Bayou Chen:iie, and Bayou Bonne-tmre, irnli<'ated, as I thought, another outlet tn the Gulftlrnn only the 'Vest Pass into Timliallicr bBy, which, according to the charts, has nine feet uf water, bnt actuallv carries, I suppose, not near so much. At the Grand l'ass into 'fimballier bay, Blunt's chart ehows uo water11t all, but a flat s<re_tches frmi1 jsle to isle. I received, Jrnwmиer, иome information t-0 the contrary, which induced me to emer this bay urnler charge of a pilot. At our first run, with a very low tide, I had ten foet water, and found very good anchorage three and thtee-иiuarter miles northwest from the east point of Timballier iиle, in fifteen to eighteen foer water, with sticky and snit bottom. 'Vhile reconnoitring the bay, I found sufficient water for iuиide navigati1111 to Bayou Clienaie and to '\_Vest Pass for luggers, such as are generally used on this coa8t. Tlie anchorage appears to me exceediugly useful for a harbor of refuge. I enclose a tradng of a plotting, yet imperfoct, the data for which were derived from ehainings and bearings. I bad no opportunity for observations for latitudeи, which I then>fore take from Blunt's chart. On the only clear morning I had, time was 1tscert1tined with artificial horizou on East Point, and firn chronometers gave it 2"~m. west of the Barntaria astronomical station. According to the charts, this harbor must hR"rn been unknown, and I have therefor& forwarded this sketch and report at the earliest date. Very respectfully, your obedien~ servant,

F. H. GERDES.
Prof. A. D.
BACHE,

Superintendent United Slates Coa1t Survey.

APPENDIX No. 21.
Extracts from tlte report ef F. II. Gerdes, E~q., assi~tant иin the Coast Suriиey, to tlte Superintendent: upon the survey of Isle lJernidrc and S!tip slioal, coast ef Louisiana.
NEw 0RLEA,,s, LA., i.Iarc!t, 1853.
SrR: ._ и и
# и
4 и '"' и

The Ship shoal ruas east and west, and lies ahout twelve mileR to the south of Isle Dernicre, the "иest end of the shoal being nearly abreast of Raeoon Point, and the east end exteudinl( to about opposite the middle of the island. J<'rcnn the inhabitants of the key, my pilot, aml otherи, I was informed that nine feet of water was the least that could be found ou the shoal. The kee11er of the light-boat, Capi;.auike, who has been in charge two years, told me t.here'was no less than fourteen or fifteen feet to be found, and state1"'Бhat he had personally made investigations and sounding~. The first statement seems, lwwever, to be the more correct. one. Breakers on the shoal can only be iиerceived in southerly wiuds. West of the shoal there seems to be au opening irtto the Gulf, and it is reporced that six or seven fath-01ns can be brought on it. Another shoal 'connected with the maiu reef makes out to the southwest, and conunences from four or five miles from Racoon Point, extending much further into the Gulf than the Shill shoal, and is by far the more dangerous of the two. Here the steamer Galveston was wrecked several years ago, and some parts of the wreck are still visible. The light-ship is anchored within half a mill:' of tllis wreck, and forms in her present position only a guide for keeping oJf. Where the Galveston lies there seems w be only four feet of water. и On Isle Derniere the following operations were performed by the party under my charge:

.A.-AstroRomical obserM-tions . .A station was "l'!'lected 011 the sand ridge running lengthwise over the island, about three and three-fuurths miles east of Racoon Point, nearly opposite the large and conspicuous dwelling of Mr. Maske!, and a suitable wooden house was erected for an observatory, in which the trll.llSit and zenith telescope were firmly.mounted, and tile following number of observations made: I. With the tranait : 1853. Febr11ary 7th ии _иии и--ии- иииииииииииииииииии и-- ии-и 2'2 sets of stars. Do ____ 9th и.ииии ии-и ииии и-ииииииии-иии ииииииииии 4 ии-и.do. 8 .и...do. Do .иии 10thи-ииии ииииии ~---ииии--ии-ииии-ии- .и.. 16 ___ .. do. Do. ___ 11th иииии - ии !._.--ииии-и---------иии-иииDo ____ 19th-~--иии-ии-ии-ии ...ии. ииии-ииии-и-иии 12 ии-и.do.

Total -и.ииии -ииии _. _ии ___ ии __ ии.. __ ии _и.и. _.и II.

62
7 pairs of stars. 2 __ .и do. 6 .... do. 5 ~ ии -do.
20

With the zenith teleeeope :
February 9th ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Do. __ llth ..... ~ и..и.ииии -ииии-~-и-ииии--и-ииииииииии Do .ии 23d ииии ии--иии иии-ии иии-иииииииииииииии-ии --ии Do .и. 24th ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииииии

Total иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии..иииии

" It'.

J,B. Reaitiup fur azimuth were made on each night of tl'$nsit ollservatiollS.

~etereblerv&tiollll, February 20, dwing rour hours, every ten minute&, for the motion of the magnetic needle.

54*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

R-Trigonomdrical, operations. Statw of secondnry and tertiary triangulations were selected, and signals erected on Racoon Point, on different parts of the tleach, on the >illago creek, and on the Cayambo; but the land being vei;y low, and thickly covered with chaparral, it was very difficult to get well-shaped triangles properly connected. The anglies were observed with a six-inch Gambey theodolite, and prnvisionally calculated from the azimuth by rectangular coordinates on the true east BDd west line of the astronornicul stations. Annexed is a list of the same.

"

..

и

"

C.-Topography.
An accident"having happened to the planA-table alidade, the instrument oould not be depended upon for running the important south-side shore-line; an<l as the whole could not oo well included in the triangulation, sixteen lines, of nearly one mile each, were very carefully chained alogg the coast, m:id the iutermediate angles measured with a six-inch Gambey theodolite, and "fterwards calculated by coordinates from the trigonometrical data, und verified by several triangulation points. The sunиey <Jf the islaud was extended eastwaril 1111 far as it has any _bearing to the survey of the shoals, viz: eleven miles on the south side, and north for eight miles, from Racoon Point, which makes an average of thirty-three and a quarter miles of s!wre-line, small streams and numerous ponds not counted. The annexed tracing is an incomplete copy of the topographical sheet. D.-Tidal obscT?Jations. As Lieutenant Commanding Sands is probably going to observe a regular set of tidal changes, only a few observations were taken, and those 011 the inland side of the island, although a great difference exists there and <JD the Gulf coast. The changes observed within half a moon gi>e a rise of twentyи three inches in avenige, requiring a time of twenty-five hours from full to full tide. In regard to the proper name of this island, and also of a great many other keys, points, bays, bayous; there seems to be a great discrepancy in the various existing maps. Isle Derniere is sometimes called "Isle au Vin," (Spanish chart and Com. Moore;) "Ship Island," (Blunt;)" Isle aux Vins," (Blunt:) or "Last Island," (Topographical Engineers;) but it can be maintaine<l that the name" l8le Dernicre," as used in this report, is the proper appellation. In 1805, M. C. Baptiste, a French emigrant, landed on this island, which was then entirely uninhabited, end described ii to ])is friends as the last of a string of islands running from the east to the west; and since then it always went by the name of "Isle Dorniere." A passage between the shoal, deep enough for ships, gave rise to the name of "Ship Shoals," and no doubt from thi .. name the island was marked as" Ship Island." The name "Isle au Vin" is undoubtedly incorrect, and probably misSJlelt from "IRle aux Yins," which is the next one to the last, 11nd called eo after a species of creepern peculiar ro this coast, and more particularly to that key, o. large part of which is covered with them. This is, however, not theиone which is represented by Blmlt as such, but is situated to the west of Caillou, and separated from Derniere by a pass of three miles wide. This samo disagreement exists along the coast; the original names are chiefly Spanish or French. I have taken great care to find the proper appellation;;, and 'llill introduce them in the genera.I map of reconnaissance. Isle Dernicre is an island of some twenty-two miles in longitudinal extent; on some places more, pd on others l~ss, than one mile wide. It is entirely level and low, with the small exception of a so.nd ridge, five or'six feet high, running along the beach. J<'or eight miles it has been covered with thick chaparral; but during the last thred or four years the western part has become cleared and thickly settled, and now becoming, during the summer seaBOn, a very suitable and fashionable watering place for the large population at the Attakapas and Plaquemines. There are at present, perhaps, sixty houses in the village of Isle Deruiere, ntmrly all owned by phmters. At the trigonometrical stations st-One con.es were buried; and at the astronomical point a large square ~t.one, with copper bolts, was secured four feet under ground, fastened in a strong cedar frame work. I may as well mention here that at Fort Livingston, in Barataria, the utronomical station was similarly secured, and the proper descriptions of the stations made.

e

и

и

и

*

*

и

..

'Very respectfully, your obedient servant, Prof. .A.. D. B.a.onE, Sv.peri'!'cndcnt U. S. Coast Suney.

F, H. GERDES.

APPENDIX No. 22.
Extracts from the rep<Jrt ef F. H. Gerdes, Esq., assistant in the Coast Survey, to the Superintendent, in relation to the cltamiels <!.l trade ef the A.ttakapas p"lantations, Louisiana.
Sm:

is very great, lllld the towns of Franklin, Portersville, lllld others, are fa.ir spt!,cimens of growth 8.lld impr-<JVement in the South.. In former times the commercial intercourse was chiefly carried on by the junction of the riven. in. the vicinity with the Missisaippi, which wui certainly a very elrcuitous a.nd sl9w route. In later years, however, 8lld ehiOO}y Jlinee the trade bas become more lively in the western part -0f the Gulf, this eommereial intercourse has taki!D mother tum, and ia carried on mostly by j;hc At.ehafal&ya and tl1e Gulf, m the Southwest Pa~s. to New Orleans. More than a huoored veasela arrive annually at the mouth of the Atchafalaya, and reeeive their cargoes either by lighten or .teftnlbo&t3. Little is known of the entrance of the bays wd rivers, except by the branch pilots at Point au Fill', or by.aome old иildeI'I!; and for this reason I have recommended to you a preliminary survey, grounded qpon tertiary triangulation, Bild embracing the s<mndinga of the prjncipal. inletl, channels, wd ban. It l11 111lid that twelvo or thi.tteoo feet can be brought into the A..tchafalaya. и и и " и и и Y ery respeetfl11ly, your obeillellt Btlt'vallt, F. H. GERDES.

*

"

"

*

"

и

TARRYTOWN, N. Y., Qctfiltff, 1853. The trade from these plantation11 (Attakapu)

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURYEY FOR 1853.

*55

APPENDIX No. 23.

Letter .from the Superintendent ef t1w Coast Survey tq the Secretary ef tlte Treasury, communicati1w extracts from a, letter ef Lieut. Comg . .James Alden, U. S. 1Vavy, assistant in the Coast SuraY, upon tlte results ef an examination ef the coast and :;~veral harbors and ancliorages between San Francisco and the Culumbia ri1;cr.
Co., MAINE, Octob er 11 , 1853. 8rR: I have the honor to communicate hArewith extractи from a letter of Lieut. Comg. James Alden, U. 8. Navy, assist. 1mt in the Coast Survey, upon the results of an examination of the coast and several harbors and anehorages between San .Francisco and the Columbia river, in his recent trip 11f reconnalTJsance northward, in the Coast Survey steamer" Active." I would respectfully request \LUthority to publish this information. Very respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE, SuperintcndБnt. Hon. JAMES GUTHRIE, Secretary of the Treasury. Co.1.n
SuRTEY STATIO~, NEAR PHILLIPS, Fa.1.~KLI!f

..

Columbia Rircr, August 18, 1853. DEAR Sm: We arrived here last Monday evening, after finishing the reconnaissance up to within sixty miles of Hiis plaee: the weatl1er was so bacl just then, that I concluded to let that part stand until our return from the north. Mr. Davidson has occupied twelve stations on this part of the coast, including San ]<'rancisco and this. "\Ve found, much to my surprise, good anchorages every night, except the one before we irot in here. At every stopping place tl1e ohrnrrntory was put up, and sights obtained. A. survey of the anchorage at Mendocino City, which is some seventy miles to the southward of that cape, anrl of a snug cove, forty miles further on, was mttde. Humholdt bar has been exiunined, the bay at Crescent City, under Pt. St. George, sunи<"yedиbe hydrography of Port Orford, or Ewing harbor, donA, and a survey madA of the entrance of the Umquah, including six miles of the river. "-'e found a good whle passage through the reef off Rogue's rirnr, lj-Ild exlllnine<I those through the reefa off Pt. St. George abd Car;e Blanco. They are all entirely safo and perfeetly practicable. For steamers bound north, particularly in the summer time, wben it is necessary t<> keep close to land..for shelter from the wind, which blows almost a gale down the coast, such " cut-offs" will pro-HI invaluable. 'Ve have brought a line of soundings up the coast, getting casts at inte1-.als of every nrn mile~, and seldom at a greater distance than one mile from the shore, often within a quarter of a mile, and frequently within. two or three hundred metres of the rocks; so youиwm .perceive that our oppoi:tunities for giving the coast a thorough exr.minat.inn have been complete. W c were de layed in Hnmboldt seventeen days-two weeks by fogR-before we could get any sights, and tl1en three days on account of the roughness of the bar, the sea breaking the whole time entirely across. "re found the bar pretty nearly as it was when we surveyed it two years ago; but I 11.m satisfied, from all the information I could get, that it has undergone very important changes in the mean.time. и The entrance t-0 this river, (Columbia) the south channel, or rather what they call the Point of Sands, or North Spit, hns crept down a little toward!! the beach, bnt thj_ change is not half so great as I bad been led to imagine from the reports of pilots and others. When we crune in, or rather when we made the breakers, the fog was very thick ; it @oou, however, lifced a little, so that one of our marks eonld be discerned through the mist, and, giving the north breaker or Point of Sands a wide berth, we croswd the bar in a quarter less fioo jatlwms-more water than I have ever knowu there before; the tide, too, had b-een flowing only about one hour. There is a new channel opened into the old north channel, through the middle sands, about half way, which the pilots use now to bring vessels in, drawing twelve or thirteen foet of water. The wind being more favorable in that quarter at this season of the year, it is found very convenient.

u. 8. SURVEYING

STEUIER "ACTIVE,"

*

* .

*

*

*

*

~

и

*

I was exce<>dingly desirous of completjng tbe reconnaissance and surrny of the l Jmquah. during this Reason, and was very fortunate in being able to aecomp!h1h it. The entrance is narrower than that of Hurn bo!at, and there is less than two and a. half fathoms of water on the bar. We wt'nt in and came out without difficulty, but drawing only eight feet of water.

.

.

.

.

.

With great respect, I am your obedient servant,
Liew. Comg. U.
Prof. A. D. BAoH:i:, Superintendi!nt U.S. Coast Survey, Washington, D. C.

и

.

s. Na~,

JAMES ALDEN, Ass-uta:nt in U. s. Coast SurtJeg.

Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, transmztt111g extracts from the report ef Lieut. ComgииTames Alden, U.S. Navy, as11istant in tltc Co<Ut Survey, npon the determination ef tlte position ef a bank in, tlie Pacific, lying in the track ef tlte Panama

и

APPENDIX No. 24и

steamers.

и
NEAR LEEDS' STATION,

M..uiu:, Ju1115, 1853. Sm: I ha.ve the honor t-0 trnnsmit herewith eJCtncts from a report of Lient. Comi:. James A.Iden, U. 8. N&vy, ll.llsistant in the Coast Survey, upon the detennination of the position of a bank in the Pacific, lying in the track of the Panama steamera, and whieh has been calletl the Cortez Shoo.I. . и 'l'hls shoal was first ll6eD by Captain Cropper, of the "Oortez," ancl it,e position aftenrnrds determined by the C{)IIllllauder of the steam.er Pacific, which varies very alightly from that given by tile Coa&t Sum~y ollieera.

56*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

и

I 11m indebted to G. W. Blunt, Esq., of New York, for having early called my attention to the discovery of this shoal.
The information, however, bad previously reached Lieut. Comg. Alden, who despatched a party to determine its position. The . .al will be immediately indicated upon the charts now on hand and ready fur distribution, as well as on all future editions. I would respectfully request authority to publish the afi1we. и V cry respectfully, yours, &c.,

A. D. BACHE, Suporintcwlent.
Hon.
JAMES GcrrRRJE,

Secrttary of the Treos1<ry, Washington.

U. S. Sunv-EYlNG ScnooNER "Ew1Na," oFF SAN PEDRO, June 1, 1853.
SIR:

I

~ve the pleasure of reporting my return to this place from the shoal to the southward of San Clemente and San

Nicolas, of which I ht<ve made a thorough examinl)tfon, bafing heen five days anchored upon it. The shoal, or bank, is iu latitude 3~ 0 30' north, longit11-de 1 UP HI' fiO" west. The island. of San ~icolas bears NW. by N. (by compass) dist1mt 46 miles: island of San Clemente bears NE. ~ N. (compass) distant 21:~k miles. The nature of и-the IHlttom is hard, composed of white sand, broken shells, and corul. The lea.st water found-ten fathoms-would be about nine reduced to lo'IV water; and the char11.cter of the soundings, as you will find upon reference to the chart which I send herewith, irregular and abrupt. ' The weather, while at anchor upon the shoal, we found different from that which ordinarily prevails upon the coast in the vicinity, bearing a strong resemblance to that upon the banks of N cwfoundlnnd. Thti current is irregular, frequently setting against the wmd, and running with " velocity of nearly two knots per hour, producing a heavy sea, and causing the water probably to break in heavy weather, aи bus been reported. иVery respectfully, your obedient servant, T. H. STEVENS, Lieut. Comg. U. S. N. Lient. Comg. JAMES ALDEN,
U. S. N., Cl1ief of
Hydrograpl1i~

party on Western Coast.

и
APPENDIX No. 25.
Extracts from the rep<m~ o/ the Chufe of the different di1YisionB to Capt. H. TV. Benham! Corps. ef Engineers, assi.~ta.nt in charge of the office, showing the details of the work executed in each division. и
A.-CoMPur1NG
Div1s10N;

J. E. Hilgard, assistant, in charge. ::f.ist of computations made during the past year to N-0vember 1, showing the persons -0fthe division by whom they were made. и
и CoMPUTING D1TISJON' NorJentlMr 12, 1853.

Dun Sm : The annual report of the computing division of the office is herewith respectfully submitted. The current
<luties of the computing division. consist in computing the results of the :work of field parties, in verifying the same by comparing them with those computed by the olise1"Vers, and in furnishing them for the use of the office, or of field parties, when required. In the performance of the~e duties, the organization of the division has been very efficient during the past . year. All the field-work of 18:.2, and all that of 1853, which has been received, ha.s been computed, and the revisions have been :made as far as the computations of o!Jservers have been received. . The project of this- clan of wo.rk is necessarily general in its terms, and no inconvenienoo arises from the circumstance, as everything is provided for as soon as received. The records of results have -been kept up with care, and the system has been extended and improved, ehiefly by Mr. Schott. CalJ. for results or information can be promptly complied with. As the work in different scctioris-accumnlatt's, all series of triangulations all' completed or join \Vith others, as additional Mtrooornical deteTrninations are obW.ined; farthet revisions and adjustments of the work beeome necessary. These are unde1иtaken iit tinles when the t,-urreut work does not require the employment of the wl1ole force of computers. The disи eusиiou of the primary triangulation in Sectionи I and III has hfli>n advanced, that of the zenith-seeror latitudes has been made, the adjustment of the eecondary triangulation in Section I has been brought up to date, that of Section III has been commenced, and that of the seaboard triangulation in Section IV has been made as far as tixistiug data required. The industry, zeal aud fidelity of all the gentlemen engaged in the иcomputing division, is degerving of great commendation. The attendance at the. office bas been very good, !llld all appear to tllke' that interest in the success of the work which atimnlates to a prompt and faithful performance of duty. ии The manner in which the different classes of workи are distributed among the computers ia, in general, as followe: The 4 oomputations oflatitхde and azimuth are made by Mr. E. Ntdty; their revision and the reduction of transit observations are made by Mr. Main. The work of triangulation is computed by Mr. Werner, and revi~ed. by Mr. Rumpf, who also has in charge the registers e>f geographical positions. Mr. J. E. Nulty and lr(r. W>essner are engaged -0n #ifferent cl388es of work, as demanded by its Oecnrrence. The clerical work is performed by Mr. Hoo'Oer, who also makes miscell&neous computations. и . Mr. Stbott, when not 111 charge of the computing division, or engaged on special duty, IQll.)ces computations of astronomiи cal work, and ~scmndo11s of results generally. _ The oocnpation of the several computers during the past year is atated below. Mr. Chari.es A. &Jwtt was in charge of the computing division <foring five months, during which I was engaged in field work. He has computed the longitude of Cedar Keys and St. M&rks from a chronometer expedition in 1852, and the teleJ.lraphic longitude of Cll.lllbridg:e, B1mgor, and Halifo.x; has been engaged in the discussion of the primary triangulation in Section I, the revision and discussion of the zenith il!lct-0r latitudes, and the reduction of so{lle magnetic observations. He has also frequently been engaged on hydrographic d11ty, in connexion with which h<i has made reports on tides m currents in Long Island sound Bild .&ppronchm!; ou currents near the coast. of Marylrm~ aud Virginia; oii curr.ents ill Charleaton bacbor; on eurrentt ~tides in Savannah river, a.nd ou other matters relating to hydrography.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

и

*57

Eup;cne NJty, E3q., has computed the observations of time and azimuth at stations Mount Pleasant IUld Cape Small, (eection I,) Roslyn, (Section Ill,) New Cut, (Section V,) Depot Key, (Section VJ!,) and Tongue Point Neck, (Sect.ion XI,) and the ob~ervations of latitude at stations Ag:amenticus, Monut Plea.sant, (Section I,) Mount Rose, (Section II,) R.islyn, (Section III,) and Depot Key, (Section VI.) и Assistant Tl1eodorc W. WeMe1" has oomputed the secondary triangulation of Casco bay, 3852, in Section I; in Section II, the triangulation of Hudson rirer, 1852-'53; in Secti()n Ill, the triangulation of Chesapeake bay, of the Appomattox and Jame2 rivers, 1852, and magnetic observations at five stations; in Section lV, the ttlangulation of Currituck sound, 18.'>0-'5 l, and of Core sound, 1852-'5:1: in .Section V, the triangulation of Savannah rirnr and ~f St. Heltиna sound, 1851-'52; in Section VI, the triangulation of Card's 2ound, 1852, ofti.e .Florida reef, 1852-'53, and of the Sr. John's river, 18~; in Section VIII, the triangulation o( Lake Borgne, 1852; in Section IX, the tria11gulation of 18S2-'53. He has also made a check computation of the triangulation of Narragansett bay, and varioils miиeellaneous computations. , Mr. G. Ru"'f'fhas kept the registers of geographic11l positions, and haR been engaged in,preparing the list for' the annual report. He has revised all computations of triangulation of the year, and has made the necessary check computations. He has computed the prim11ry triangulation in Section I; l&'il, the secondary triangulation on the seacoast of Virginia, 1852, a.nd that of Georgetown harbor, (S. C.) 185:3; the latitude of False Duugeuess and Point Hudson, Section XI, and magnetic obserrations in Section I; bas revised the computation of azimuth at Mount PleMant, and the st-condary trianи gulation sonth of Cape Ilenl<иpen; 1844, lllld has made some progress with the revision of the secondary triangulation of tltl' upper part of Chesapeake.bay, besides making ma.uy miscellaneous computatiom1 requireft for the use 'of the office~ He has alao made considerable progress in"arra.nging and indexing the books of observations and computations previous to 1844. Mr. Jam~s Main has oompnt1'ld the chronometric dii{ere11ce,of longitude of Snn Diego, &n Fnmciиco, Punta de los Rey~; (Point Reyes,) Section X, Md Scarboro' harbor, ~'alse DU:ngeness, Port Hudson, Section: XI; the lati~ude of Presidio hill, Section X, and of .Agamenticus by, zenith sectol', Section I; the transits for longitude .at Scai:boro' harbor, SecLion XI, and at Telegraph hill, Section X, and theиobs<inиations of azimuth at Savannah. He has ,revised the C.OmputatiOlls of latitude {иf stations Mount Indrpcndence, Ilfonnt Pleasant, C~pe Smnll, (;auste11, and Roslyn, and those of 11.2imntb at st.ationa Cape Small and Depot Key. "He bas also in part COl!lfillted the longitude of Scarboro' }.!arbor from moon culminations, and hu computRd the projeetion for the c{;ng;-ess map. и . и Mf". J. T. ''Hoover has pmиformed the clerical duty of the OOlll{>tjting division, and has made m1my mi!!Cell~neous computatinns, among which are the иredltction of b11rizontal angles at MountиPlea!!fillt and Cape Small hy lr.ast s1!1111.res. computation of places of stars, ofmicrnmeter values, of probable errors of the ptiillary triangulati<.m in.St1ctiou I, and reduction of l'llrrents. He has also assisted in preparing the list of geugrapldc"al positions. и и !.fr. J . E, Nulty joined the CO:lllputing force In Novqp:iber, и1S:->2. lfo has asиistet1 other oolbpnters, and ha.& computed и the triangul6tion of Columblaи rivei, Sectinn XI; the latitude of Scarboro' harLor, that.of It "Bl>atiun in Washington city, and has redsed the zenith secoor latitude of Hill's hill. и и и , и llfr. J. Wiossner jomed the office in January, 1853. иHe lu1s'bee11 principally engagoo in asl!isting Messrs. Schott and Hain, anil has иmade many minor geodetie and astronomical computations. и и и Mи. E. F'. Mrzson was attatihed w the computing divioiun nntil May, when he lefl; for field-duty. During two months ho was prevented fro~:working by sickness., He computed tho L. M. Z. of the revised ll&oondary triangulation in Section I, and oooasi!Jnally ~ Mr. ,Rumpf. и и : ии , . Computations of{n'Obable errors and discussions of various kinds were made by A. "S ..Clements, under the imm.ediare direction of Mr. 'liilgard. . Wor.k of duplicating and miscellaneous copying was d-Onf! by R. FreeJ!lan-.
B.-DRAWING DIVI~IQJ!!. Capt. A. Gibl!Qn, K An0y, to Capt. H. W: Bimlwn. alll!lstu.nt in eliar:ge of Coast S1in;ey office., Liat of.maptt and slrntehes completed or in progress during the yel', t<I November,.11odи by whoill they.have been drawn. и и Da..:wiNG D1vi.s1ru<, Noumb"er lfi, 1853. ' Srn: I have theи honor to 'submit the following r:eport of the operations in the drawini diwi~ of the Coast Survey office during the 'ear.ending November !ID, 1853. и . , и . и и The drawing division was under the charge of Captain J. G. Foster, corps of engineer&, assista!lt,. untll the latter part of December, when he was relieved by Mr,!. J. Lee; who di8Charged thi!J, duty until. die middl.e of May following. Mr. Lee left the office at that time, and Mesns.. 'Wi!li11.ms and Hergesheimer were necessarily pl&Ced in this position lllltil. the duty was assigned,t<J me in August. и и . ' и 'l'he fullowing is a statement of work aecomplhihed by the draughtsmen: и , Assistant W. M. C. l!airfu:x has been engaged upon ihe reductions of tbe hyJrography of BOl!ton b.Mb<Jr, nи 1rmc; tlie topography and hydrograpby of Long Island sound, No:l, 11v.l1 ro; the topography of Chesa.peake. bay, ~o .. 1. mFiluui the lettering and revision of Mobile b11y, Nolf. lиand2, nиf.!i,; and. the map of ~M G.lllf of Me~, v-tiu~и=и for Mr. Andrews' report on the commerce of the Gulf. In addition wи work on the .progress Jiketches he 'h1111 expended mneh time in th.e exa~ an? verification of eh&rts, in the. re~iBl<>n, :of e;aili!ll( directions; p~~~in~ estimates of'work, and i~ mnny .othor subjects of a I1Uscel.l.aneous ebma.eter, wherem his long experienoo rendered him eхunently 11seful, and, for which thf!re has been an unusual demand for hie eervi.ces. By ill hea.lth he иwas prevented from attending to his duties in the utliee from the first of,September to the midille of October. и ,: и . .и. и . . . A~tant M. J. McClerylias dewted al&r~e~o{hill time to the ~ihu!tlonof the topograp~ofCheBBpeak~ bay, No. , 9>. w<r:!vrr, now nea.rly eoIDpleted. He has m&de iOme additi~ to the redueti<>n of Ch~pe&ke\M.y, No. 3, nиMи and 118и ~ill. prep&~ themapofSaVilooah river! Tиhtr,wrth~~ofEngineen; the &e~OlUlt eh~tj;of.f>e!aw~ и. Maryl1111d, aild pvt O/Vll'glllla, ~o. 1, -mr:tjiii; and .~blage ~for Congress, n1rtи1rii1rи the oolonngof'wlrl7h 11this own, and alao iih'D lltudr of the tints fur the1r~e me и .иerifying, &e., he bas rendered some 88!!l8tati!le. :J!tr: .h$CJ>k Wehh was engaged on the i-00,uetion of. tl.phy of the'wtexn series, No. 2, TUи?rtnr, until July, when be tOol in hall!l the rednotion of No. 3 of the ll8IOO и . . 'Of which nearly one-Jialf of the tllpOgrllphy had:been .imi~y made by Mr. Fairftlx. !fe made the reduetiofi oq;ne;.~imlnary eketcli of Pong~oe creek, .sauited to ~Wt tM llU!pиOf Savannah nver, 0 .Jhnr, and expended JJpwa~иi.t one JllOllth on tho title ruW. other leiten:ag uf the Б~ t;ill'p, TиMиllm1и and projections and verifie&tiona. .. ~~'.~ и и , .. . .. ,, и , Mrи. J,./; ~ hu m8d6 the origirnll. chilrt of theи ~.l'a{lbic snrvef. gf ,Jtef }f(!tt,ha.t"llor,-1;.l!-m:r. by Lleat. J. ~~ llHmmpleteil&bont one-half of 1nitnilar ebtt of:Key'",Biaeayne"ir11-.hu; by that l>lftee.r. He ~ t<M hJdro~ ol,ltey We&t bMbor to & acale of nifrm!и umted tO' OOl!l~ tlle ll'lftp of Sa~;tinr, ir.t;m, ll8d the oompar-

A.

u.

the

4ilиhJrи

и gи

.

.

..

..

и.и'

58*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

ative map of Flynn'и shoalи, reduced the shore-line of Sandy Hook, 41:r.i\mr, to show its changes, and revised the hydrography of several preliminary sketches. и _ Mr. Charles Mahon, on contract, reduced the topography of Mississippi sound, No. 2, ircv/1111., and finished the topography . иof the eastern sheet of Albemarle sound, TIиh-n~Mr. John f,ambcrt, on contract, reduced the topography and hydrography of Santa Barbara, n.m, au'd Cape Flattery and Nne-11.h harbor, -ndn:m- He ad11'11l some lettering to tlie reconnaiRsance-of the Western coast. In March he joined the party under Governor Stevens, in the expedition hy land to the Territory of иwashington, and thereby the Coast Survey lost the services of i;his valuable draughtsman. Mr. A. Bosckke, on contract, inade the reductiQn of Shoalw11.ter bay, 1rn &Sl!ist.ed to complete the map of Savannah river, 0 .-/n,ir. lllld for a short J:>eriod was employed ori. miscellaneous wo1>k. Mr. J. R .. P. MecJilin has been employed in the office since Marc:1,,principally on reductions of the bydrography of Chesapeake bay, No. 1, -irn-&'illl, and Nu. 3 of the smne series. He mil.de the projections for the Congress map, Tи01Jftoirncr. and other sheets. Commencing the bydrography of Chesapeake bay, Tinи.ir1Jcr, the work w1111 discontinued before he had made sensible progress on it. Mr. E. Hergcslicimcr ma.de the reductions of the reconnaissance of the West.em coast from Gray's harbor to Admiralty inlet, rn&иTIT\lh the commercial map of the Gulf of Mexico, :<-nn~-rnrn. and the map of Appomattox river, -r;.i\mr, for the commission on its inprovement.. He has assisted in preparing a similar map of that river for the Chamber of Commerce of the eity of Petersburg, Ya., and made additions to the seacoast chart of Delaware, Maryland, 11nd pai:t of Virginia, .-u-lJ.1rnrr. to the history maps and to the progress sketches. Re has exe<Jnted much miscellaneous work. и Mr. E. Freylwldt has made the reductions oftlie preliminary sketches of San Luis Pass, r.r-tnrn. east and west entrances t-0 St George's sound, 1<1Jиlnro; and Sow and Pigs reef, TI1J andи =иf.lflT; also, compa.rative maps of Barataria bay, Cape Fear river, and the mouth of thu Columbia river. He has becu employed on the Congress map, TиFTrtrи1lll1rи and in making projjlctions, tracings, and other miscellaneous work. 'Mr. L. D. Willimns joined tho office at the close of the month of March. He has mil.de the Teduetions of the preliminary иketches of Barataria bay, -:nrи-&<r.c, Cape Cha,rles and vicinity, 1llfиhnoи and Romer and Flynn's shoals, .ro./n:nr, and a.dditions t-0 the progress sketches. He was first employed &S a clerk in the division upwards of one mcnth, and in porti-Ons of May and June acted in its charge. With the assistanoo he has rendered on the Congress map, the making of projects a.nd ti:acings comp,ri<ie the greater portion of his miseellancous duties. . ' и Mr. Julm R. Key made the reduction of False Dungenese, nи1n:nr. and porlions of tbe reductions of Albemarle sound, -.r,i\-trn1J, and Cape Charles and vicinity, .-dnrn; the rednetions of the hydrography of San Diego bay, vi;-!mr, and reconnaissance of tqe coast olcflorida, from St. Mark's to St. .!n<lrew's иounds, mr~-rnrn; and render&d much assistance in preparing the Congress map, :1:.1r:uA:ml'ilи The remainder of his timetias been spent in makiug tracingи, &c. Mr. Arthur Bolbadи, on (lOiltraet, hll!! made the reductions of the entrance to St. John's river;v;-.-blrn; Chen'ystone inlet, ru-?mir; and the portion surveyed \}l the seacoast of Virginia, Ne. 2, 'IU'ilиmnrи . Mr. W. P. ffe,htdtz bas bad in .charge the arrangement, registering, and care of the miscellaneous maps. Re has also been employed' on pmgreos sketches, tracings, projects, the measurement cf shore-Jines, &c., of topographic Sheets, and other work of this description. и" и _. . ,'tfr. Bernard Hooe,jr., has mad~ the l'eiluctions of the hydrographic survey of Cortez Bank, Tlfи-!iitrи and the sketch for light-house purposeи of the muiJth of Sahlne river, TIиiurr. Hill chief employment has been on tracings, and, when not otherwise engaged, he hll!! practised drawing topography. . , . lllrии W: B. McMurtrie was temporarily assigued to duty in ihe office fOOJD the 6th of September to the 28th of October, when he left to join Lieut. Alden's party on tlie Western coast. He worked thirty-one days en the statistiCI! for the annual report of this year, and copying views cf the Wlllltern coast. и ии ' Mr: J. C. Tcnmnt was employild on-the oommissioners' ma11 of Appomattox riv13;, '!'иVrnrи and on. miscellaneous duties duriRg the mcnth of November, 1852, wlien he was transferred to the tidal party onи the Appomattox river, and subse~uently to the engraving division. и , и .Mr. ThomФs Adams was employed in this division as a clerk the first five months of t)lll, year. In April he left the office toиjoi.n ilia pimY, unde:i: Governor Stevens, in its expedition to Washington Territory. Since the first of May, Mr. W. B. Stuart has been emp1oyed a& the clerk. . и и J. N. C..mpbtll 1!.nd "llamas M'bEnery, artificers detached from the c-Ompany of sappers and miners, have been employed in tracing and oopying durillg the entire year. The amount of miscellaneomi work has been unt1rn11lly large. . . .In the discharge of their duty, th,!! draughtsmen merit, in general terms, .. mvonble notice.

m.

c

иList of maps and sketihea.eompletM., or in progress, dming the year~ Nommber, 1853, anarigr,d im the or;u,. of uctwns.
SECTIO!I

I;

2. 3. 4. 5.

:Alden's :Rock (Portland harbor) light-hoiuie sketeh .иииии --и .......................... ~ иииииииииии : Do. Hydrogn.phy of DtnWn harbor, :nr-ihrti .......... , ............ ;. ии ииииииии---и ии--иии---ии --ииии ииии Do. Minot's Ledge (Bosto11 harbor) light-house sketch ии ~~~иии ииииии.ииии ииииииииии ии.-и ииииии ----и....... Do. Sow 311d Figs reef (m./n:nr a11d do иииии.ии , ииииииииииииииииии.ииииииии ;.................... Do. 6. T~hy of ellllt series, No. 2, TIJиtwииииии .............. ; ..и.и.ии...и..и..._ иииии.ииии.и.и..... Inprogress.

1. Progress sketch, lmtFITTmиии ииииииии ~. ииии-и ииииииии --ии иииии -и ииииииииииии - иииииииии и--- иииииии Completed.

m) _

Thi;

do.

.No. 3,

doииииииииииии и."и"ии~и........................................
13ai~ro"

Do.

n.
Do.

1. l'rogrelis sketehfm'иill'll~~-~: и ..;., .... -. и. . : ии ииии : иииии.и....ииииии.ииии ии-ии-и- ии..иииииии.иии. C>mpleted. 2. Topof!raphy af Long wad .119und, No. 1, =иhn ии-иии .................... ---иии иииии- ..и....... I1l progl'ells.
4. Topegraphy 110uth sid&и~I1111111d, No ..2;
3. Bydrography _

-~ilc>,

c

и

~-

do ...............................................-.-и~

do иииииииииииииии "---~----иииииииииииииии'иииии-и-ииии

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*59

S. Comparative map of Romer and Flynn's shoaJs, Tli"иUmrи иииииииииииииииии.ииииииии ~ии ииииииииииииии In progress. 6. Hydrography of Romer shoals, nr-turrииииии .иии.иии.ииии.и......иии..и.ии..и.иии -----и ииииииииии Completed. 7. Shore-lino of Sandy Hook, TIJиfflи ouиil"rrrr ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии -- ииииии ииии Do.
SEOTlON

III.

1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.
8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 1. :и
7.

Progress sketch, -.rurrиmrn- иииииииииииииии -~ иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Completed. Topography of Chesapeake bay, No. l, imиtrucrиии .иииии..иии.ииии.иииииииииииииииииии..ии.ииииииии In progress. Topography of do. No. 2, do .ииииии.иииииии ~..................................... Do. do. No. 3, do .ииииии.ииииииииииииииииии ~ иииииииииииии.иииии.и....... Do. Topography of Hydrography of и do. No.1, do..................................................... Do. Hydrography of do. No. 3, do..................................................... Do. Chart !>f d!>. cl-nrrrrиииииииииииииииииииииии ...... ................ ...... Do. Seaco11st of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, No. 1, Completed. Preliminary sketch of seacoast of part of Virginia, No. 2, 'Irr6-rrcrnиииииии ииииии ииииииииииии ииииии ииии Do. Do. Preliminary sketch of Hog Island harbor and Metomkin and Wachapreague inlet, TIJиf.urrи. .и . . . . . . и . . и Preliminary aketeh of Cape Charles and vicinity, TIиtmrи-и-ииииииии ...ии.. ...... .и..и. .ии.ии.и.и.. Do. Do. Preliminary sketch of Cherrystone inlet, :nrиUmrиии--и .ииии. иииии. ииииии .иии.и иии..и ииииии ииии ииии Do. Preliminary sketch of Pwigoteague inlet, nrиlrrnrиииииии ии.. ...иии..иии. ии.ии..и ииииии ...иииии ииии.и Hydrography and top9graphy of Appomattox river, 1rи-o1inr. for Chamber of Commerce-...и......и..ии.. In progress. Hydrography of Appomattox river, 1;-.i1 m;, for commissioners ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Completed. Clulf Scream. Progress of Gulf Stream exploration. . Dillgrams of the Charleston, St. Simon's, and Cape Canaveral section11

m-mrn ................................... :..

и. SEOTION

IV.

1. 2. 3. 4.

Progress sketch, ITTT~иll1llYии ииииииии _; иииииииииииии ~ иииииииииии.ииииииииииииии : иииииииииииииииииии Completed. Do. Progress sketch, No. 2, nAиmnrи-ииии --~---иииииииииииииииииииииииии .и..и.ии.ии. .ииии. ииии.иииии Topography of E. sheet of Albemarle sailnd, >rrrиUmrииииии .:ииии ииииииииииииииииии ~ ии ~. ииииии ииииии Do. Topography of Albemarle sound, iroltиm:niиииии ии. .ии ...и. ии.и ии ... . .и. . и. и..и .и.. .иии .и и и. . ... и .ии. Do.
SECTION

v.

1. 2. 3. 4.

Progress sketeh, nr1r--o1J'1l'и иии. _иии.ииииииииииииииии , иииииииииии ."иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии Completed. Preliminary sketch of Cape Roman shoals, mиmnrииии ...и.............и.. иии-~ииииии-и ...... ...и.. Do. Progress llketell No, 2, Savannah civer, m-i:rrru ......и. --~- ....... : .....и..и.и.и и.... и... и... иии..и Do. Map of Siwaimah river, j,.-o\nr, for Board of .Engineers ииииииииии.иии ии--и~и---~-;................... l)Qи
. . SECTION

VI.

l. Progress sketch, r-TIJ1'иmrn иииииииииииииииииииииииииии ииииии-.: иииии ~ ии ииииииииииииииииииииииииии Completed.
2. 3. 4. 5.

St. John's river, ,,.,,.to-rr .и.и..и..и..и ; и...и.и.ии..ииии.и... ~ .... и:.... .и. . и...ии .и..ии ..и. ...и ... . Do. Progress sketch No. 2, Florida reefs, "1liиl1llФииии ..ии..и.иииии.иииии и~ииии иииии. ииииии.ииииии ииииии Do. Key Biscayne chart, inr-lnnr (plotting of original work) ...ииии.ииииииииииииии ~--иии .иииии.иииииии.ииии In progress. Key ~est ehart;.=и:Omrииии ~--и ...ии.ии..ии.и..ии....иии..и.. и. :. ~-и ...................... ;.~ и.и Completed.
SECTION

VII.

1. Progress sketch, orril"иmnrи-ии .ииии..ииииииии.ии. иииии : ии и...ииииииииииииии и---~иииии :_ ииииииииии Completed. Do. 2. Preliminary sketch of E. and W. en~ces to St. George's.sound, nиlrrnr ии.и ииииии ииииии ииииии .иииии

и 1. Progress sketch, ovlrиmnrииии иииииииииииииииииииии : ииии иииииииииииииии..ииииииииииииииииииииииии Completed.
2. 3. 4. 6. 6. 7. Topography of Mississippi sound, No. 2, lrif.~:iri; и.и.ииииии.иииии.ииииииииииииииииииииииии , .... ии.ииии Preliminary snrvey (a re-survey) of Hom Island l'a11s, 41TиUmrи .и ~-- ииииииии и ии и ии ииииии ии ии и иии ии и ии и PrelimiBary survey of E. Pascagoula, vir-m tllghtиhouee sketeh) ии.и -~---иииии-ии .... ииии ииии ииии.. Preliminary eketeh of BaratAria bay, Comparativelllllpof . do ииииии.и ---иииииии-ииии--и~---ииииии:~.иииииииииии ::..:............... Preliminary chart of,Ship11hoal, off Isle Demiere; iro,~---и ........................ :..и..ии --~--SlllOTION

SECTION

VIII.

1J1fиmииииии .и................ :и.............. и.. :....... ....
IX.

Do. DG. Do. Do. Do. Do.

Progress sketch, Completed. Entrance to Sabine river, Trrиihrn (light-house l!ketch) ииииииииииииииии иииииииииииииииииии ~--и ииии ииии Do. Galveston entrance, mиUmr ........................................... '--~и ииииииииииии иииии-ии Do. &n Luis Pass, TIи-lnnr (topography emnplete) иии ~ иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии -и~DG. 5. A.rans&s Pass, n-lnrn (light-house llketeli) иииии ~ .и;.. :ииииииииииии иии :...... ииии ииии ииии ииии ииии ииии Do.
8Б0TIOlf

1. 2. 3. 4.

mиmn:rииии .........ииииии.......и.......... .. :... ................;. .....и.и.и..

X.
Do. Do. Do

t. Survey of Cortez Bank; TITиtmrи-и .иииии..ии..и.ии.ииии Oии иииии ииии ииии ииии ииииии ииииииииии ииии

1. :Progre.eeиi!keteh,

mиmnrиии .......... :.. ...... ,...и. и~-~ .................................. иии---Completed.

3. Pretimitull'J' sketch of San Diego bay, (rOOlletion of hydrography) .ииииии --~ иииииии иии ии ии иии и 4. PreJiminary sketch of Santa Barbara, nr-h-tr ................. , ~-~- ииии иии-ии иииии ииии иии иии ииииии

nиm

60*
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION

XI.

Progress sketch, 'lll'иihnrииии ии........ии...и.и..и..и.и........иииии..и...иииииииииии.ии....ии..и Completed. Comparative map of mouth of Columbia river............. . . . . . и . и . . .и ии . .и и и и . и . и . и . . и . . и . и и и . . и Do. Prti!iruim1ry survey of Shoal-water bay, ;i-u.k-o-ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ии-~ Do. Ri-connaissance from Gray'и harbor to Admiralty inlet, oirhrITTJ. и и и и и и и и и и и и . и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и Do. Do. Preliminary survey of Cape Flattery an'd Nee-ah harbor, :rrrиltuir ииииии ~ , иииииииии ; ииии ииииии ииии ииии Preliminary survey of l<'alse Dnngeness, rnH~rnr-..... . . .и и . . и . и . и . . и и и . . . и .. и . . . и и . . и .. . и . и . и . и и и . Do.

c.-Ei<GlUTIBG DmsmN. Lieutenaut E. B. Hunt, Unitoo St.lites CorPS of engineers, to Capt. H. w. Benham, assistant in chl!J.'ge of Coast Survey office. List of maps and sketches engraved and engraving, during the year, to November, with names of the persons by whom they have been done. NovE111BEn 15, 1853. This division WW! continued under the charge of A. W. Tinkham, assistant, from the date of the last report till his resignation from the Caast 811rvey in April. In August, the two divisions of drawing and engraving were placed under the charge of A. A. GihRon, Capt.Wu United States army, but in October the engraving was transferred иto E. B. Hunt, Lieutenant of engineers, United States army, who has continued to th;i present time. J<'rom April to August, Mr. John C. Tennent acted in charge, and subsequently assisted in attending to the details of management. . The additions to the list Qf finished maps during the year have been four in number, viz: Wellfleet harbor, mouth uf <;:onnecticut, seaooast of Dti&Wlf"re, Maryland, and part of Virginia, and Galveston entrance. New editions oousequent llpon exteuoive alteratiuns or additions on the plates, have been issued of eight charts, viz: Mobile bay, >'ni'rиnmr, (:3d edition;) 'Da>is' South 'shoals, (6th eclition;) Hatteras inlet, (4th edition;) North Edisto river, (2d edition;) Key West, rutrиm:mи (2d editi-0n;) San Diego entrance, (2a editioni) and Sari Francisco city, (3d edition.) и Besides these there have been twenty-one prelimhmry sketches; reconnaissances, &c., engraved, rome of them;. espeи cially of the Western coast, apprpaching in character to tlm strle of our finished harbor !!laps. Sixteen fini!!'hed maps have been in progress during tho year, of which pnmbt'lr three have been commenced since the date of last report. 'I;'he.!!0 are Newburyport harbor, Albeinarl~ sound, N:o. 2, mdnrm and Key West, =и~Hmи For the detailed list of maps finished, engranng, or rrewly taken in hand sinee last report, I respe.ctfolly refer to accompanying papers, as olso a complete list of all maps engraved or~pii in progress by the Coast S~ey up to the present time. Tliere have been eight enwиavers, ou very nearly constant.'\Vork, enga.ged during the year, in addition to s~.ven.nppren~ tiees, {four of иwho in have come irtt;O the office during the Jear .) Besides, there has been a force of six eontra0ctors available, in Philadelphia, New York, and 'Vru<hington, to do tQPography or lettering as occasion required. Tot,N.-nnmber of eugravers and apprentictll! at pr<lsent working for the offioo, six engravers, on salary or per diem in the o:flioo,. three contractors, and seven apprentice&, making 11ixtee{l in all. . The copper-plates r1'ccivcd into the office since иthe date of Mr, Tin.kham's resignation haveи all be~. inspected in the engraving divisi-On. These plates have been fomished by 1\lr. .A.. B11rdett of Baltimore, rmrchased !f:y:hlin in the rolled sheots, generally in New Yvrk city, aud afoorw&rds hammered th0roug1lly and planished 011 the surfu.ll61u.his establishment Ip Baltimore. и и и . " . . .I herewith give 11 general snmmary of the wqk done upon several of the most important plates during the year, with note!! upon their pret\ent condition. " ии . . . Boaton H<nhor.-Tbe marsh, grass', w~ rnUng vf the city of Brston, 1ome outlines, and a p()rtion of the sand dry at low- water, have. all !)een worked upo* during the year, thu~ completing the engraving of the topography, (excepting curи rectlons ofa minor charac.-ter,) byиMr. A. Rolle, assisted in the m1trиh ruling by Mr. J. Young. ~e general lettering has beeti partly completed by Mr. John Kn~ght. There remain, to complete the plate, 'the retimining иsanding, engraving of "views, and letiering. . .и :и и и и и и Sahm ll{fr;bor.~Tb(;l fi~ndihg~, botfoms, and general letteriug, have"been engraved by иMr. S. E. Stull, on contract. The sandiugofsix, twelve, and eig.hteиm feet eurves, has been about half !lorupleted by Mr. H. M. Knight. The hills are near OOD!pletion, Jiy Mr. F.:Darikworth. None of the lettering has yet been ta:tten in hand. N=h11.rgp1rrt иHarbor wali иoommenced d11ring the year." Mr. J. Yotlllg engraved the outlines and woods; Mr. A. Rolle the hills; apprentice H. C. Evens the sandi!Jg; and Mi\ S. Siebert the m&r11b and.mud, on contract. Some lettering was и done by Mr. W. Smith .on e«tmcit. и Wellffeet Ha.,.bor.-Finished <hiring the year. TGpograpfy by Ur. S. Siebert; l!anding by Mr. E. F. Woodward; and и . и !etteTing generally '!Jy Mr. S. E. Stull. /rluskБgu Clta!lltd.---.'l'hls plate, after the topograpny and hydrography .were completed, was enlarged, by electrotyping, to its present diinensions;in or\}ei: to take in additiOoal work.;. it is :etlll fu hands. и . .Mouth of CMmutitiit riur.~Completed dw'ing the year and p11b1itlled. . Long Island иSmt'lld, ll(p и .1,-f)le remainiag work. on thii! to be done i.il the completion of topography about western p11rt, the lettering of Hi~ng ill!ectione, and sandijig of upper 11hi:Jre. Nos. 2 and 3 are essentilllly finished. New sailing directions on each of these, 11onfonning .to. No. 1, and the abbr.evintions for the "bottoms," have been ehanged in order to ma.int{lln uniformity throughout the tbree sheets. _ и Chesapealu Bay, No. 1.-Abont two months' work bft8 been done in topography, by Mr.~и Siebert, in the office. Albemark No; !и .,;.i\-,n., has been ,opmpleted !tS far Ill! the outlines, and is allout being progre1111ed with in the topography, lottenng, ~, . и Mobile ~. No.s. 1 4fid 2.-Completed a& far as the topography and !tOUlldiuge, Al!lld bottom, are concerned. The two plates a.~~ being illectrotyped from, to fonn by jimatioua 11ingfo plate-Of the i!ize ~f genera\ ctlllSt chart;. taking in the entire... и . . и и и 1. 'l.'lle:иllliigraving of the following finished t«ps hu been eoutpleted during the year: 1. JV~ fllzriwr, by S. Siebert, E. F. W:OOd.ward, J. Knight, J. S. Pettit, and -R. F. Bartle. 2. :Moutk of Coml<!.Ctiettt by O. A. Lawll(ln, G. llleQoy, W. Smith, and J. Knight. .3. &aeoast of DelatD41'e,.Maryl&lld, and par/ of Virginia, (2d edition,) by H. C. Eveils; L. E. Stull, W. Smith, and J, arut H. },{. Knight. 4. 6Ф.IU1t911.иe1ttra11ce, by H. C. Evens a.nil. J. Yo~. 2. The engraving lri'the ~lfowi~:иetehes and preliniinory charts hllll been OOIUPleted dilling the year: 1. 1lts!is' 8P#tli lllwal, (6th edition,) ~,r.-S. E. &aJii J~ Knight, imd W. Smith. 2. fhw .,,,.a Pigи r_uj', by J. V. N. Throop, \V. Smith, llM H. C. Even11. 3. Rt>iMr tutd ~. и '.1.ии.i.aak, hfW. Smith and T. H. ~aehUtger. -. 4. -.clU-UJa.gue "'1a, hy J. E.иStall, H. M. Knight, H. C. Evens, ~4 'J. J. Knight. 5, Watchaprigju mu/. MttanWia inlet1, mul Hog Islii'lld 4ar6(1f', lJy J.. J,

So""'!,

mer,

OF THE UNITND STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*61

Knight and W. Smith. 6. Cape Charks and minity, by E. Yeager and C. Smith. 7. Hatteras inkt, (4th edition,) by E. F. Woodward, J. J. Knight, T. H. Oehlschlager, W. Smith, and J. Knight. 8. Ocrat0ke inkt, by J. H. Goldthwaite, T. H. Oehlschlager, E. F. Woodwiu:d, and H. M. and .J. J. Knight. !l. Cape Fear rit:er and NWJ inlet, by H. C. Evens and W. Smith. IO. Nurtlt Edisto rifler, (2d edition,) by T. H. Oehlschlager and W. Smith. 11. Key West, TmTиhnrи (2d edition,) by E. Yeager and W. Smith. 12. Channel No. 4, Cedar Keys, byT. ll. Oeltlschlager, R. C. Evens, and W. Smith. 13. East and Wost entranca St. George's soun.d, by S. ,V. Bradley and W. Smith. 14. Mobil.c bay, nrn-lruih (2d edition,) by W. Smith and H. M. Knight. 15. Harn lsland Pass, by J. S. Pettit, T. H. Oehlschlager, J. H. G;,ldthwaite, W. Smith, M. F. O. Stroble, and H. M. Knight. 1.6 to 19. Cat Island titlal diagrams, by H. C: Evens, W. Smith, and H. M . .Knight. 2ll. .Barataria bay, by S. W. Bradley, W. Smith, and T. H. Oehlschlager. .21. Timhallier /Jay entranu, by J. S. Pettit and W. Smith. 22. Gal'lJeston entra,.ce, (prelimibary skt>teh,) by H. C. Evens and S. E. Stull. 23. Galuston hay, (2d edition.,) by J. Knight, H. M. Knight, R. C. Evens, and M. F. 0. Stroble. 24. San Luis Pass, by J. J. Knight, E. Yeager, and H. M. Kni~ht. 2fi. .111.dnl'S rr,1;onw1.issФ111'Бfrom San Francisco to San Dugo, by G. McCoy, W. Smith. and T. H. Oehlschlager. 26. Cortez Bank, by W. and C. Smith. 27. Santa Barba'f'a, by M. F. 0. Stroble, J. Young, and W. Smith. 28. San Francisco city, (3d edition,) by M. F. O. Stroble, W. Smith, J. Young, and J. and H. M. Knight. 29. Slwal-wnteT bay, by J. Young, S. E. Stull, and J. Knight. 30. &cc7111aissancc af Western coast, from Gray's lwrbor to Admiralty inlet, by G. McC-0y, E. F. W-0odward, W. Smith, and J. Knight. 31. Cape F/n,ttery and Nee-a/1 harbor, by S. Siebert, S. E. Stull, E. F. Woodward, and ,V. Smith. 32. False Dungcness, by J. S. Pettit and W. Smith. 33 Sdfref(istering tide-gmq:e, by l:L C. Evens, H. M. Knight, and T. H. Oehlschlager. 34 to 52. Progress and miscellaneous sketches, by sundry eniravers. 3. The"engraving of the following mapsи has been continued during the year: 1. Salc"! harbor, by H. 11{. Knight, $. E. Stull, G. McCoy, and F. Dankworth. 2. BoBton harbor, by A. Rollt' and J. Young. 3. Muslceget channel, by W. Smith and J. Young 4. Long Island sound, No. 1, by J. Knight, S. Siebert, (on eontraet,} and A:Rolle. 5. Long Island sound, No. 2, by W. Smith and J. Knight. 6. Long Island sottnd, No. 3, by W. Smith anil J. Knight. 7. CJusapwlie bay, No. 1, inrиlrm, by S. Siebert. 8. Charkston ,,.r, by F. Thmkworth, G. McCoy, and E. Yeager .и 9. '.MobU. -bay, No. 1, B1l'иihrcr, by S. Siebert, W. Smith, and J. H. Goldthwaite. 10. MobilФ bay, No. 2, ;m.f..ru, by S. Siebert and W. Smith . . 4. The engraving of the following' finished maps has been commenced during the year: 1. Newbu.ryport lmrbor, by H. M. Knight, J. Young, A.. Rolle, W. Smith, and H. C. Evens. 2. A/Jmnarle .sound, No. 1, n-~mr. by J. Young. 3. Albemark tiound, N-0. 2, 111rи/;iru-. by J. Young and S. Siebert. 4. Key West, i-rdmn-. by E. F. Woodward. 5. The following preliminary .charts are alw in progress: t. Cherryst-One inlet; 2 Pungoteogue creek; 3. Cape Roma.~ shoals; 4. St. John's river, entrance; 5. Isle Derniere; 6. Arapsas Pass, 2d edition, enlarged; 7 to 23. Sketches showing the prQgress of the surrey. и

T
D.-.EuoiRoTYPE DivrsION. Mr. George Mathiot t.o Capt. H. W. Benham, assistant in charge of Coast Survey office.и Lli!t of elootrotype J!le.tes made in alto and basw during the year ending November 1. и и There have been forty-seven elec.trotype plates made, of which twenty-three were alto, or mould plates, snd twenty-four were b&sso, or printing plates, as exhibited by the following .list: и Name of ple.te. Number of и altcis..

Iи Number .of
bassos.

~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~

I. Muskeget channel. .ииииииииииииииииииииии ---и l 2. Mouth of Connecticut River иииии.иииииииииии.иии 2 3. New Haven harbor........................... l 4. Captains' island, E. and W .ии.и. и----и и... ..и. l u. No. 1, Long Island sound~ ии.ииии и.---ии .и.. 6. General coll.St chart и и и и и и и и и . . и и и и и и и и и . и и и и и l 7. New York, atrиITTnrи (six shoots) . .ии ии ии и . . и ииии 3 8. Edisto ...ии : ииии : ииииииииииииии.иииии...ии.ии.. 2 9. Sketch H, in Section VIII ..и.ииии ---~-и ....и ;.. 1 10. Months oftMM'l88isl!ippi ииии -и-ииии ииии ииииии 1и 1 11. Delta of the Mississippi.. .ииииииии.иииииии _... 12. Alden's chart of West.em coast................ 3 13. San Diego entrance иииии.и. ии--.............. l 14. San Pedro .ииии и----и---~-:.: иииииииииииииии ; I 1 15. Santa Barbara ииииииииииииии~-................. 16. Monterey harbor иииииииииииииииииииииииии _.. 1 17. Point Piuoa views ...................... и----и иииииииииииии ; 18. Sanиlrnmcisco city ииииии :.................... 1 1 19. H~boldt bay .ииии ииииииииии--и-и-и ииии.иии ~.

1 1
I
1 l

ииии1-иии-и ..... .

2

2
1

1и 1.
6 I
1 ..

1' 1
и 1

1 1

23

24

The plates ilf Muskeget channel, EdiSl;o, -Bieteh H, in Section VIII, Delt,a of the Misejllaippl, . ..Ud A.IUn'.и chart of the ' Weetel'D coaet, have been enlarged or ~и.by the oloctrotype, as follows: MlllJkeget channel was elllarged ill three directions by joilllng and incorporating. ии Ed~to waB extended in one directi001 by one piooe added to the origiual, and incorporated by the elootrot)>f!e }>roceet. Sketch H was extended in a similar manner. Delta of the Miuisl!ippi was formed by incorporating five Jliecea. ,и ' 'Alden's chart wu all!() formed of five pieceA. San Pedro kad the view set in it by electrotyping. . . J)urlllg the pallt year l have also, by the electrotype pl"OClellll, gold-plated nineteen deep-aea thel'\llOmet.en, and the working parts of .the ielbM:tiiig pyrometer~ used f<>r te1ting tile bue ap~tns. и The qnfing dirili.tm hu been furniahed with lixty !>lank plates fw engraving m charts, sketches, &e. I have &.tmiahl die ~ corps with six quarter-motr& IO&lee, mLded oil botla Bid.el.

62*
E.-PIU!fTillG D1v1s10N.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
Mr. S. D. O'Brien to Capt. H. W. Benham, a.ssistant in charge Coast Survey office. List and number of maps printed during the year ending November l.

Plate.
Since November 1, 1852, there have been printed as follows:
SECTION

Number of impressions.

I.
200 100 1-12 490
50

1. . 2. 3. 4. 5.

New Bedfurd harbor ...................... --~- ии..и.ииии. : иииииии.ии..ииии.ии...и.ииииииии.. Holmes' Hole and Tarpaulin cove иииииииииииииии -----и ииииииииииииииииии.иииииииииииииииииии Edgartown harbor иииии.и.и.ииииииииииииииии.ииииии.иииииииии.ииии.ииии.иииии...ииииииииии.и Nantucket harborии---- ииииииииииииии.ииии.иииии..иии.и.иии..ииии.иииииииииииииииии..ииииии Davis' South shoalи-и-иии--ииии---и и...ии.. и----- и--- ..и.и....иии.и.ииии.ииииииииииии..и...
S1rnrioN

II.

и 6 ..General coast chart, from Gay Head to Cape Henlopen .ии...и..ииии ____ иии..иииии..ии...и ____ .. 7. New London harbor ....................................................................... .. 8. New Haven hai"bor ииии !.: ...........................................и...................... 9 Ca..wiins' and Sheffield's islands ииииииииииии и-----и- ииииииииии ~ иииииииииииии ии.и~ии иииииииии , ии 10. Hart and City island and Sachem's Head harbor ...и.ииииииииииииииии.ииии ; ии ~.-и иииииииииииииии 11. New York bay-and harbor, mrиhn, in six sheets .иииииииииииии.иииииииииииииииии ~ иииииииииииииии 12. Sandy ROQk changes .ииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииииииии иииииииииииииииии иииииииииииииииииии 13. Little Egg harbor..иииииииииии.иииииииииииии.иииииии : иииииииииииииииииииииии..и -. иии.иииииии 14. Delaware bay and river, three sheet& ии. _и.. ~'ии ии.иииииии ии-- ,. --~--- ииииииииииииииии.ииии --иSECTION

и
1, !l02

170

413
333

466

190
60

171
428

nt.

. ~t ~:i~~~~~~:~;~;~ ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::: :~ :~:: ::::::::::::::
20. Fisliitig and Donoho's Battery:: ииииииииииии.ииииии ___ и...иии..ииииииииии _.иииии.ии --~- ии _._ ......
SECTlOlf

15. Seacoast <lf Delaware, Maryland, and part of Virginia .иии ------ .иииии ____ иииии..и.и _, __ и.иии.и. .16. En~ance to C~esapeake bay--~--- иииииииииииии.ииииииииииии -ииииииии-иииииии-и--и--ииииииии

и

,..

520 100 520

384 531
100

IV.

21. Puquotllnk river., ииииииииииииииииииии : ииии. -и-- .и.ии.иии _иииии __ ..и __ ииии _ии.иии ___ .ии __ ии 22. &ttel'll.8 shools иии -и- иииииииииииии ..,. ии.иииииииииииииии .'иииииииииииииииииии __ ииииииииииииииии 23. Oeraeolrn inlet .ииииииииииииииииииии : и.и : иии ~ иииииииииии. -. ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии. 24. Baufort harbor ..................иииииии.ииииии.ии.ииии..ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии 25. New river and bar ......................... __ .иии.. __ ...и.и __ .. ____ .иииии ---и-- ии -.-ии иииииии.
SECTION

190

2oo
500

162

100

v.
262

~- Bull's bay и - ии - .:. ::~ -и-и - и -и-и ---- иии --- - - и - ииии -и .и.. -иии -- и" ии :. -- ии и : и - -и - и и и ии и и -и --- и
SECTION

VI.
262

'9!1. Moиquito inlet ........................................... -и-и ииииииииииииииииииии -и-и иииии.
~.Key

28. Cape Canaveral shoal.II ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ---- ииииииии Weat.: .ииииииииии.ииииииииииииииииии..ииии...и-~--иии ии.иииииииииииииииииииии.ииииии иии : 30. :Rebeooa shoals.иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииии: ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии
SEOTIO!I

aw
'S'I

162

VII.
и162

31. St. Andrew'и shoals .ииииииииииииииииииииии : и иииииииииииииии :: иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии 32. :Reconnaissance vicinity of Cedar Keys ииииииииии __ ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ииии~и ииииииии 33. Channel No. 4, Cedlr Keys иииииииииииииииии...... , иии __ ии __ ии..ииииииииииииии -~ иииииии _ .и __ ии 34. St. Mark's bar and channel ииииииииииии_.;.:. ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии
&cTroir VIII.и

100

"

300 300 .-

;;: ::1iJ1&.~T~~:::::: :::::::::::::::: :: :: :::: :::::::::: :: :: :::~ :::: :::: :::: :::::: :::::: Caiиa:aifиShip hadiors. -и и.ииии.ииииииииииииииии..иииииииииииии ,.,. иииииииииииии.ии --и и.
'SI. Island 38. Pua Christian._ ии и иииииииииииииииииии "ии __ ииииии.ииииииииии.иииииииииииииииииииииии. -- иии. 39'. Delta. of tll.e Misai&lippi иииии.ии , иииииииииииииииии -иии-и ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии
40. Enilnlnee t.o Galveston bay .~ ... ии : и ииииииии , ииииииииииииииииииииииииии ~ ииииииии ииииии ииииии -и ~ 41. AralllU P881 .............................................. .,и-ииииии иии.ии .;. ................... .,. иииии

300
10
1)38

262 ., 50

-400

62

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*63

E-Continucd.
Plate.
---------------------------------------~

i Number of im1

presиions.

SEcT10ss X and XI.

I
1,605 1, 107 10'2 400
5UtJ

42. Alden's reconnai8sance Western coast, in three sheets------ии ииии.ииии.ииииии --и-ии---и-и ...ии. 1

~: ~~~~=~~~:~::::~:::~::::::.::::;~:::::::и:-и:~:::::::~::.:.::.::-::.и~~:::::.1

46. Prisoners' harbor, Cuyler'и harbor, &c .. --и .ии --- . и- - --- ---- - --- - и и и -- - --и -- --- и и и и и ии -- -и и -

:::и~~,.~=i~ha~~~~:::::~~:::~::~~::~:::::=::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::~:::::=:::::::::::::::I --1

750
650

112 112 1,367
и450 428

i EWa~~~ : ::::~~:::::: ::: : : : : :::~:::~:::: : : : :: : : : : : : ::::~::::I
> и

52. MeArthur's reconnaissance Western coast, in three sheetR ---- ииии.и.ии. и----и --ии и...и. -и-и .и.. 1

287
1ti2

57. Cape H[IJ}cock, or Dieappoin~moot - -- ии --- .ии --ии. --- - - ии _ --- . - .. - .ии _--- ии - __ .ииииии ---- и. -и J Annual sketehes .. -- __ . ------ ~----и иииии. ---- ---и ------. --- _-- ии..ииии. -и-- и...ии...ии. ----\ Finished Md unfinished plates, and quarterly proofs и -- - и - --- и и-- -и и --- и ---- -и-- -и- --- и- - -- и и и -и 1

367 250 524 2,434

Total .ии.и ---ии-------и----и-ии----иии--ии---и-------- -ии------- 1

1-----I
24,076

___J _____ ._

F.-D1v1s10N

FOR

Puer.1sa1NG, msTRIBUTING,

AND SALE OF llirs. Mr. V. E. Kiog to Capt. H. W. Benham, a.ssistant in . charge of Coast Survey office.

At the date of the last report, November l, 1852. forty-two sheets иof Coast Survtiy ma.ps had been published; since then five !!beets have been added, 'Viz~и iVellfle,et harbor; l\1outb of Connecticut river; Sea.coast of Delaware, Maryland, !llld part of Virginia; Galveston entr ; Alden's reconnaissauce from San Fn111ciиco to San Diego-making tho llUIDber и now publiehed forty-s6von sheets. и ... There have also been publish_ed the following preliminary charts and ~etclles: 1. Davis' Soyth shoals, 6th edition. 15. Cat id1mil, tidal diagrams. 2. Sow-and-Pigs reef. 16. &rataria]my. 3. Romer & }'lynn's shoals, 17. Timballier bay. Wacbapreague-.and Met-0mki11 inlets. 18. Galveston entrance. 4. { Hog Island harbor. 19. Galveston bay. Cape Charles and vicinity. , 20. San Luis Pass. 5- Chincoteague inlet. 21. Cortez Bank. 6. Ha.tterrui inlet, 4th edition. 22. Santa Barbara. 7. Ocraeoke inlet. 23. San Francisco city_ 8. Cape Fear river and New inlet. 24. Sboalwater bay, 9. North Edisto river, 2d ei)ition. и . 25. Reconnaisilllnce of the West cooи,t, fmm Gray's b.arbor 10. Key West harbor and &pproachee, T!l~и 1nnJи 2d edition. to Admiralty inlet. 26. Cape Flattery and Nee-ah harbor. 11. Channel No. 4, Cedar Keys. 27. False Dungeness. 12. East and West entrances to St. George'1MK1Und. 28. Self.registering tid1.,>-gn.uge. 13. Mobile bay, nfJиirnl!и 2d edition. 14. Hom bland Pan. The fact of a large number of the abo-ve-named preliminary charts a.nd sk~tches notи appearing embodied in the accompanying tabular statement of. the diatn"bntion for the past year1 is attributable to their very recent completion.

64*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENpENT

List

ef Clwrts and

Sketches distributed.

I
Names of charts and sketcbes:

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _!_,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

I

Turned over i For. use of , for sale. ! office.

r--

I
I'

Gratuitously dit1tributed.

Total.

Charts.
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9.

IO. 11. 12.

13.
14. 15. 16. 17.
l~-

19._
20. 21. 2J. 23. 24. 25.

Richmond.Wand.. ________ и--_ ............ ____ . __ . ____ ... --- ' Na.ntueket harbor .ии..и.........и..ии...ии иии-и ...и --- и. ---Hyannis h!nbor..и - и..иииииииииии.ии _иииии. , ии.и _ии.и ~ и..иии Edgartown barb1>r. ...................................... и-ии Holmes' Hole and Tarpaulin cove и.иии..ии...ии...ии.и...иии. Harbor of New Bedford .. ---- .и.и.иии... ----- ... ---и и....и.. General cbait of the coast .иии.иии. ----ии ии.ииииииии.и.ии.и.. }'isher's Island sound .ииииии -иииии-~--ии ии.ии...и. иииииии--New London harbor ...... ___ .. __ .и... ____ ..ии.... ---и .иииии. : New Haven harhor ..иии.. и-и--и-иии-ииии- .иии.. -и-и-ии----Harbors of Black Rock and .Bridgeport ..ии - и.ии..ии - и - ии.. - - . Harbors of Sheffield \tlld C&wkins' islands .и.и. - . - .. - - - ...... - .. Huntington bay ииии.и --- и--~и- иииииии.и..ии. _ ии.. ___ .иии..иии Oyster or Syosset bay ..... '. .."""" ииииии.иии.иииии..и.ии ииии-и Harbors of Captain's island, east and west ....и ииииии-и-и и.ииии H\lrt and City islB.Dds, and Sachem's Hea.d harbor ..и.и. - .... - и. Hell Gate-ии--и-иии--ииииииии----и-иииии:---иииииии-ииии New York bay and harbor, six sheets .ии.......и....и.ии...... New York bay and barhor, irnи~Фrnиии---и .ииииииииииииииии.иии. Western part of south coast of Long bland .. -- и...ии.ии... -- . Little Egg harbur ии..ии.. -- .и..иии.ииииии.и.ии.иии.и.и ..и.. __ и Delaware bay and river, three @heets .и...и.... - ..и ;_ ......и.. SeaC,-oast of Delaware, Maryland, and part of Virginia; иии -- ..иии Harbor of Annapolis and'Severn rher .....ии.и..ии..ии.....ии.. Mouth of Chester river .и..ии.ииииииии..ии..ии..ииии...иииии.

65
15 27

10
7
7

I
I
I I
!

126

201

126
125 123

и14s
159 155 154 191 6!1

20 22

12 8
14

50
442 16

31 13
и26
16 14 8

I

I

i

124 127 13g
131 131
12.'i

160
191 151 168 152 178 143

31
10

31 20 45

10
211 38 38
143

10 10 17 7 13
6 ;,!3 5 12 17 11

123 rn4 123
123

124
124 130
23

mt

169 181

29
296 15!1

130
125

29
23

126,
138

161
436

281 26 21
16
21. 39 JO

18

55
158 148 148 176
97 175 205 572

1l

!)

26. Pasquotank river ...иии..ииииииии.иии..ииииииииииии.ииии.иии 27. Mobile Bay entrance ..и.ииииии.иииииииииии..ии..и.иии ; .иииии
28. Cat and Ship Island harbors------ .......и.... и----- ..и...и.и

6

8
4 18 20 lH

126 123 121 129
83 95 145 иJ63 141 136 140

29. Western Coast reconnaissance, (.Alden's) .и.ииииии. _ии..иииииии i
32. 33. 34; 35.

~t ~n~~~~\:i~;: :: :::: ::::: :: ::: :::: -:: :: :::: ::::::::: ::::: !
Western Coast reconnaissanceи, 3 sheets: иииииииииии..иииииииии Humboldt bay....иии..ииии..иииииииии.ии ; иии.ииии.иии.ии.ии.и : Trinidad bay .иии.ии.иииии.иииииииииии --~иии---и .ии..иии и--i.fouth of Columbia river ................. , .иии....ии..и.ии.и
Sketdu~s-

38.
46
38

62

40.

Zl

214
188 204

48
73

и 14 16 12

149

234

]._ иCurrent eharl: of Bosron harbor............................... 2. NantueketSout.hshoals.-:.,..................................
и3. Sttndy Hook changes ..и ;. ииии.иииииииии ,.---..................

. и-io
76 23

иииии.ииииии
19 I

40
36 38

50
131 62

4. EntrabceCbesapeak:e
5. 6. 7. и 8.

hr---ии----и---и-и-ииииии-----и-и----

Cbiuooteague inlet.;иииииииииииииииииии. -иии-ииии-ии-иии 14 3 3.7 64 Fishing or Donoh1>'a battary... .и ии . и. ии ии иииии и. . иии . и . ии ииии 14 и 1 36 fi1 Hatter&s~boala иииииииииииииииии.иииии.иии.ии 26 3 и 35 64 Hi.tteraamlet ..ииии.и. ----и-ииииииииии--и-ииииииииии-иииииии.ииииииииииии иииии.ииииии ................... . 9. Oeraookeinlet .и..иииии.ииии.ииииииии.и ----и-----и-----и--14 4 102 120 10. Beaufort harbor и. : иииииииииииииииииииииииииииии и--иии~----и и 33 19 145 197 1 11..Fr)ing-pan ahoals. иииииииии.иииии.ииии.ииииии...иии иииии ;: ииии 1 31 16 I 138 185

--и-l'

36

I

37

74

-------.-4--.-ии

12и. NewriverlUld bar ииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииии.иииии ;.... 1 13. Bull's bay.................. ии.иииии ииииии-иии................ u_ North Edisto.ииии и--.--ии--------иии ииииииииииии иииии и-и~---15. Entrance Savannah nver........... .................... .ии...
16.SavannRhcity иии.иииииииииииииииииииии , ииииииииииии ;....... 17. St.And!"ew'ashoals .иииии..ии.иииии.иииииииии.иииииии.иииииии , 18. Mosquito inlet .ииии ,. иииииии.ииииии иииииииииииииииииииии-ии-и\

19.CapeCrma~ral-~ и .,........................................ 20. Key Weat иииииииии ~. и-и-ии иии.ии .ииии. .ии .. . ииииии ..ии .и.. 21. R6~..lil!oalBииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии-ии .... .... 12. WetJt. lli'taitofF!Grid&иии.иииииииии --~и-иииии ииииииии иии :.... '13.~vieinityofCedarKeys:иии ,................... fU. Clut.nnel No. 4, Cff&r Kqa.................... .... ...... .... . _20, St. Marki-и----- иии.;; ииииииииииииииииииии ии--ии............ и 26. Mobile bay иииииииииииииии ,.. ииииииии иии--------и----------и-

. ~ .. Homlal~dP&.118 иииииииии.иииииииииииииии :..................

.... DeltaofltlilliiJJe!.ppi........................................

i8. PaasChnatian -иии-иииии-иииииииииии-ииииии и.и...ииии ииииии

8 j 138 157 иииии..иииии ! 35 ' 61 17 142 181 9 i 143 180 3 143 114 ... :........ 31 57 ииииии и.и.и.и '3T 50 1ииии ~....... '$T 52 122 .26 64 / 212 и 3 иииии. .иии.ии "37 I 40 50 17 . 107 i 114 13 ииииииииииии S7 j 60 13 6 '37 56 8 12 142 , 162 32 18 .иииии.иииии !иииии.и 13,, 3 35 1и uf 3 и ииииии ииии.. 36 39 11 26 28 28 28 20 13 15

I

I

I

'lil7

6

38

71

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*65
i

,List ef Charts and Sketches distributed-Continued.
Names of charts and sketches.
Turned over I :Por use of : Gratuiwusly Total. f'or saIe. I I и ' o ffi. ce. distnhuted. 1
I

Iи

i'

I

i

--~и-и----~-~и----------и----

; _ _ _ _ _1 _ __

. 30. 31. 3-.l. 33.
~и

35. 36.

37. 38. 39. 40. 41.

Galveston bay .ииии.иии..и.и.и.и. -иииии--и--и-ии .и..и.ии.ии. j Aran~s Pass ...ииииииии.иииии ---и иии. ииииииииииии-иииииииии J Oatalma harbor .ииии.иииииииииииииииииииии.иииииииииии иии-ии I Han Pedro ... - - - ии. - и и - - - и и и - и - и и - - - - -- - и и и -- и и и и и и и и и и - - - и i Prisoners' harbor, &c .и..ииииииииииии.иии..иии.. ииииии ииииии; Santa Barbara иииииииииииии.иии.иииииииииииии.иииииииииииии i Point Concepcion ииииииииииииии.и..и..ии..и.иииии..иии. _.и. i Sa':l Sifl!eon, &c ..и.иии.иии. ииииииииии ииии ииииииииии ---иииии PomtPrnos ...ии..ииии.ии.иииии....иии..и.иии.иии..иии..ии. : 8an Francisco city ..иии...ии.и.ии __ .ии--- ..и.и. _ --- ___ и.и ___ : Mare Islllnd straits .ииииииии.иииииии.иииии.иии.иииииииии.ии. I Cape Hancock .ииииииииииииииии.ииии.ииии.и.ииииииииии.ииии 1 Total .иииииииии ~ .............................. /

82
:l

25!)

159
159
100

27 1 21 13

I

, 1 '

121 35 i36 129

I

230 39 416 301

l

20 159 114 161 114 114

'i .... --~~l -иии и----~:~~---и 43
!...... ~~---и
21 l . l 197 51 41

1~~

i~~ 64.

379 166 156

i~~

,

! I

4,375

782

7,260

/ 12, 417

JJi.itribution of Coast Survey Reports and Sketch-maps
. States.

ef 1851.

I

Individuals.

I Instili.tions. j Total.
24

Maine. ______________________ иии ___ -----и и- ---и. __ .. __ ..иииии --ии. ____ и ___

~~i~J: ~j ~ ! ~ -~! ~[:~ i:!ll!.:li:: :i:~ l~:!! ~:~!: :::::-:~:-~: : I иH ~ .~~g5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ \ . . .~i~- . . j .
~~ig:~l:!:и::;::~~:::::: :::::::::::::::: :::::::::::: :::: : :::::::::~::::I
Georgia ................................................ иии-иии-и-иииииии--и

.I

103

127 3:1
Hi 219 6l

46
145 21

129 3
4.6 . 78 54
39 32 28

Alabama .ииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии -ииии-и-иииии---и

Arkansas иии - ииииииии - и -и ииииии и ---и и -- и и и иии и --и ии - - ; и -иии ии -и ииииииииии - и Michigan и-и--и--ии ---и --и-ии -ии- ииии ---- ---и и--и ии-и -иии ии ии ииии ииии ииииии Florida... --ии иииии. -------и-.--ии---и---иии--ии--иии--иииииии-ии--и--и----и-

{~~~~~;;:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~! ~
7

Ohio иииииииии-иии-иииииииии--ииии-~---ии-ииии---и-ииииии-и-ииииииии-ииииии1 Kentnoky ....иии --ии-и иии-ии ииииии --иииии-ии ии-и-и ии--ии ии-и-и иии--и и-ии -иии

~!~i~s::tи.и:::: ::: ::: ::.:::::::::: ::: ::::::::::: ::::::: ::::: ::::::::: :: :::::

22 16

i~

1

10 12

i

3i
27

~

27

13

16 10 12

ииии ___ . ___ . 8 Z

ii

15

и
Hl
54

28 14

38 36

1216

18 H
9

Texas .......................... иииииии-ииииииииииииииии--иии-и-ииииии-иииии

2

Iowa иииииии : ииии иииииии-иииииии-и-ииииииии-ииииии-ии-ииииии-и-ииии-иии.... 12 5 Wisconsin-и-ии-ии----и-и-ии-и----ии--и-ии----ииии--иии-и--и-и---------.... 2 12 California иииии -и -- и иии - -и и и -- и и и -и и и ии и- и иии - и и и- и - - и - и -- - и и--и -ии иии и и и ии и 1 ииииииии _иии Himlesota Territory ..ииии.и ; иии ии-ииииииииииииииииии-ииии-иии-ии-.......... 1 2 Forwarded (through. the Smithmnian Institntio11- a.nd by other means) to the continent of Ellrope and Great Britain .ииииииииии -- ............ _ и.иииииииииииии _иииииииии _иии.ии _ииииииии To oftl.celll of the armyиии-ии ии и и и и- - -иии ---- и и и и ии и и - и и и и и- и ии и и и и ии - и ии и ии и и--и и ии и и ии и и -- -To officers of the navy and naval libraries ......................... и---и- ииииииииииии и-иии- ииии ---и ииии ,

17
H
1

3

иииииииI

130
261 175

Incidental distribution, apart from the general list to individuals generally_ иииииииии --и иииии. __ ииииииииииии Totalииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииии.

T1' newspaper offices иииииии..... ии-иииииииииииии-ииииииииииии-и-ииии-иии-ии- иииии.иии.ии.иииииииииии

272
982
3,224

980

66*
G.-A.ROH1VJ:S

REPORT иOF THE SUPERINTENDENT
.um Ltll!U.RY. Mr.

c. B. Snow to Capt. n. w. Benham, ass!Btant in charge of the Coast Survey office.

U. S. CoJ.BT SuRVEY LIERARY AND ARmnvxs, October 18, 1853. During the last two years the internal organization <>f the archives has been undergoing a change, which is now complete. The sounding, ttnglt, and ti<lal observations. of the past year's operations have been rebound, and all the original hydrographic and topographic maps placed in single tin. tubes. In compliance with your orders, I have removed .the duplicate records to a room in the new buildingsи jtll!t below the fire-proof, which adds greatly to the a.ccommodAtion of the original manuscripts; but it is t6 be regretted the origin11la are not in a building fire-proof inside as well as outside. The arrangements <>f the archives for the convenience of the survey are in all respects equal to its w1111ts.

Lwrory.
In the same time, the library has been greatly augmented by. the addition of many valuable books relatiog directly or indirectly w tfle operations of geodetic and hydrographic surveys. There are now two thousand two hundred and thirty-three volumes belonging to the library; five hundred and twenty-six of which hal"e been purchaBed, ond thirty-four presented, within the past two years. Three hundred иof the bouks belonging .to the library aro now in the hands of p-0rsons attached to the survey. The acquisition of the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, in sixty.seven volumes, from 1665 to 1849, purchllMld at one-fourth of the c<>st to subscribers, bas proved of great service to the tidal compjlting department, eontaining, as they do, many valuable papers on subjects of tides which are not to be found elsewhere, or arc out of print. 'l'hey have also been consulted by other branches of the survey. There are some deficicnciosи in the series of Greenwich, Edingburgh, and Cambridge aatronomfoal obeervations, the English nautical and A.merican almanacs, and some of the scientific periodicals, of which I have heretofore given you a liflt, and the purchase been approved by the Superintendent, but now awaiting theиapprov,U llf Lile estimates by him for the library for the ensuing fiscal year, which, when pnrchased, l\ill add greatly to the completeness of the library. I would .strongly recommend that a system of exchange be entered into with foreign eocieJ;ies for their publications, by sending them in return tho Superintendent's reports and published maps of the иsurvey. They would be of great utility, giving ui the latest data upon subjects which would facilitate the operations of the office and field.
ll.-ExTRAoTa from the report of assistant L. F. Pourtales t-0 Captain H. W. Benham, in charge of the Coast Survey и office, on the computations made in the tid11l party. The following list will show in their order the names ofиthe stations reduced, with the name of the pers-On by whom reduced, and the class to which it belongs :

Station.

By whom reduced.

Station.

By whom reduced.

Messrs. Offiey & Heaton. Do ..ииииии.иииииии Mesl!I's. Nes & FendalL. Portsmouth, N. H .ииииии Mr. Tayllir ииииииии ; ииии Do иииииииии.ииииии Mr. Nee иииииииииииииии ~ Newburyport, Mwie .иииии Mr. Hawley иииии.ииииии Salem, Mass .ии.и. и--и-и Messrs. Heaton & Nes .ии Dmton Dry-dock иииии ~ ии Lieut. i:vans .и .1 ииииииии Boston Light........... Mr. Taylor .ииииииииииии Na! tuck et, Mass_. и и и и и и Mr. Heaton .иииииииииии Hyannis, Ma.as .и ; иииииии Mr. Taylor .ииииииииииии Edgnrtol'VD,Mass .иииии.и Mr. Wise ии..иии..ииии. lfolmes' Hole, Mass..... Messrs, Pendall & Hawley Tarpaulin Cove .ииии...и Mr. Fendall ииииииииииии Noboque Light иииииииииииииии do .иии.ииииииииииии Wood's Hole, (three stir tions) .. - ии...ииииии.и..ии. do.ии- .иииииии - ииии Dumpling Rock ииииииии и f Mr. Jones ииииииииииииии Bird-Island Light .ииииии , ииии. do .ииииииииииииииии Fort Adams, R. I .ииииии ии иии. do................ . Point Judith, R. I .ииии.. Messrs. Wise & Heaton. WatehHill ..ии Mr. Taylor ..иииииииииии Montauk Pomt .иииииииии . Mr. Jones ииииииииииииии Stonington и и и и и и и и и и и и и Mr. N es иииииииии.ииииии 1 New London ииииииииииии Messrs.Mitchell&He&t<>n Sheffield Isl8nd иии -иии-и Mr. Heaton ииииииииииии Bridgeport, Connиииииии. Mr. Hawley- ..иииии.иии Oyster Bay. и и и и и и ии и и и и Mr. Wise ииииииииии.ии. Huntingdon Bay .и иии ииииииии do .иииииииииииииииии Sands' Pcdlitиииииииииии. :Mr. Heaton ииииииииииии Tbrog's Neck иии : иииииии ,. ииии do. .- и.ииииииииииии New Roehelle ..иииии __ -\ 1Ceurs. Heaton & Oftley. Hell Gate, N. Y. ии и и и ии и Mr. Jooes иииииии.ииииии Governor's Ialand, N. Y ии , Menrs. Jooea & H11,wley. M68Sr8. Oflley, Looker &

Portl~d, ~--иииии ииии

B.

c. B. c.
B.

i Sandy Hook, N. J ......

B. B.
B.
B. B.

B.

B.

иn.
B;
B. B. B. B. B.
B.

---иииииииI

B. B. B.
B.

B. B.

:M:essrs.Fendall&Hawley I Cold Spring Inlet иииии. Mr. Hawley ииииииииииии ! Higbiee .и.иии.ииииииииииии. dsиииииииииииииииии ! Egg Island Light ииииии. Mr. Nes ииииииииииииииии : Jl,lahon's Qitch ииииииии.ииии do..ииииии - .l.----иии ! Cohausey Light........ __ и. do .иииииииииииииииии ! &mblly Hook ииииииии.иии. do..ииииииииииииииии Philadelphia Navy-yard.. и иии do ииииииииииииииииии Philadelphia, Walnut-st .. wharf.ииииииииииииииииии do ..ииииии -ии-иии-ии Old Point Comfort..... M01lllrs. Offley, Looker & Hawl6y ииииииииииииии Po~t Lookout ииии.и-.. ии Mr." -Wise ииииииииииииии Bodkin Light иииииииии. MC*srs. Heaton & Offiey. Annapolia, Md----.---- Mell!lrs. Heaton, Hawley & Taylor ииииииииииии Do иииии -ииииии ииии Mr. Ofiley ииииииииииииии James River (Jive staи tions ) иииииииииииииии Mr. Hoa.ton ииииииииииии Curles Neck ииииииииии. Mr. Nes .ииииииииии -и-и City Point .иии - ииииииии __ : и. do .и и-и-иииииииииии Petersburg .иииииииииии Mr; Olll!ly ииииииииии ииии Smithville .ииииииииииии MelltT6. ties & Heaton.' Cape Fear River ииииии. Mr. HeiitkJn ииииииииииии Orton Light ииииииииии. Mr. :M:~mery ииии и и ии Georgetown (2 etat!ons). Mes.am. MOlltgoD.ltll"Y & FJJndall ~и иi..Ц ииииииии Fort Pu.\askL иииииииии Mesara. Otlley :& Jones ии Savannah иии.иииииииии Keasra.. ~.& Evans .и S. W. Pass, La.ииииии.ии Mr...11~и иииииииии Derni~re Island иииииииииииииdo ............... .
GalvastOn, Teias ии "иии ииииии doиииии ~-и иииииииии

B. B. B.
B.

B.

B.

B.

B.
B.

c.
c.
B.

B. B.

c. c. c. c.
c. c.
B.

B. B. B.
B. B.

Castle Pinckneyии ; ииии Xr. Neii............ иииии и

Do........ .. . . . .

B.

Hawley ииииииииииииии

B.

'.Rincon Point, Cal .......... ии и иииии и и ииииии ииии

c. c. c.

c. B. B. c.

c.

OF TIIE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*67

~mparisons of observations with theory were made by Mr. Mitchell for Old Point Comfort, and by Mr. Heaton for Galveston. The readings of the times and tides from tho shoots of the self-registering tide-gauges were made by l{eaars. Offley, Looker, and Hawley. .. и

APPENDIX No. 26.
Tide
Table.~

for tlie United States.

The follo'lt'ing tables give the principal elements of the tides for a number of points on the coast of the United St~tes. They are selected from a large number of observations Illllde by the Coast Survey. In making this selection, none have been used, llll a general rule, for which the observations did not ex.tend through at least two lnnations.

Expl.analwn 11f thБ taliles .
Table I gives a liиt of the stations, beginning at the north and east, and following the coast south and west. The first three rn1lumns of this rable need no explanation. The fourth gives the 1uean interval between the time of the moon's tranиit nnd the time of high water. This is also called the "Corrected Establishment" of a place. Navig3tors are in the habit of using the Mnn, " Lime of high water at full nnd change of the moon," _but this is not eq><ivalent to the mean interval on onr coast, whi>re the tide follows the transit of the inoo'!. by wl1ich it has beeiiproduced, by two days. On the Western coast, however, the mean interval appears to coincide with the interval at full and change. и The fifth column gives the difference between the greatest and least intervals. Table ill will show at what sge of the moon these .occur. The sixth oolumn gives the mean rise nnd fall or range of the tide. The seventh gives the same for spring tides, nnd the eighth for neap tides. The ninth column gives the mean duration of the flood or rise of the tide, and the tenth tho mean duration of tho ebb or fall of the tide. Both are reckoned from the middle of one stand to the middle of the next. The eleventh column gives the mean duration of the stand, also sometimes called slack-water, although the latter term is more usually applied to the cessation of the tidal current than to the cessation of the vertical rise or foll of the surface of the water. Table IL This table give$ the rise or fall of the tide at several stations in the Gulf of Mexico. On thia part of the coast the tides present the following peculiarities: When the moon's declination is zero, or nearly so, tliere are two small, irreg. ular tides in twenty-four hours; when th.e moon's declination is greatest, there is generally but one tide in twenty-four hours. Between these two periods, there are sometimes two very small tides of unequal height. This inequality ofte\l 111D-Ounte to one foot in the height of low water. In the height of high water, however, the inequalit.y rarely exceeds four or five inches, and more g&OOrally m.anifests itself by the tide standing at about the slime height for several hours. When tbe time of greatest declinBtion of the moon occurs at full or change, the rise and foll are greatest. When the moon's declinrrtion is zero in the first or last quarter, the rise and fall are least. Table III gives the corrections eaiised by the half-monthly inequality to be applied to the mean interval given in Table I, so 88 to obtain the intervals at the different ages of the moon. Th~ lirst eolumn contains the time of the moon's transit or southing, reckoned from noon or midnight. Thia quantity is given :!Or every day in the year in the nllllfillacs. The other columns contain the corrections mentioned above. By means !)f this table, and of Tuble I, the approximate time of high water can be obtained for every day for the stations enumerated in Table III. It will only be necessary for this purpose to take from an almanac the time of moon's llOUthillg on the day for which the time of high water Hi wanted, then take out from Table Ill the correction corresponding, apply it. with its proper sign to the mean interval of Table I, and add this corrected mean interva.l to the time of moon's southing before obtained. The time of the preceding low water Cllil be obtained by subtracting from the time of high water the melln duration of flood given in Table I. By adding t-0 the time of high water the mean duration ef ebb, the following low w&ter ean be obtained. The quantitiesи given in this table can he used fur other plaees in the neighborhood of those named. Table IV gives the daily inequality, or the quantity by which the a. m. 1111d p. m. tides of a day dltfer in time and height from the mean interval and mean height of that day. 'l'his inequality is not very important on the A.tlantic OOllllt. It is more strongly marked at Key West, where, however, tbe. t.otal rise and fall is small. But on tbe Western COllllt, the Jmowfodge of this inequality is of,,j;he greatest impartanoo, f!8 it is very large. A rock in San Francisoo bay may have ~ feet of wa.ter on it at the morning higD. water, and be awash at high water in the afternoon. At Key West, the high water next following the southing of the moon is higher than the prooeding and following one when the moon's declina.tion is south, and the reverse when north. . At San }'nmcisco the difference of height of two successive tides (either high or low waters) ;aries with the moon's decliuation. When tho decliruition is uotbing, the di1ference is nothing, or very small. When the declination is greatest, 'l'lиhetber north or south, the dilFerenee is greatest. When the moon's declination is nearly nothing, the interval in time between two snceessive high waters, or two e11ooes. si.ve low waters, is nearly twelve boars, and ditfur11 most from this wht'n the moon'и declination is gr~atest. When the moo11's declination is north, the liighMt of the two high tides of the twenty-four honrs occurs 11bout one hour and a half aft;er the moon's croasiog the meridian, (soothing;) and when .. the moon's declination is 80llth, oecnrs about 0116 hour and a half llftor the moon's meridian plllltiage, (southing.) The lowest of the two succeesive low waters of the henty-ii}ur h()urs occurs o.bout seven hours after the Jiighest of tho two high w..tel'!. и Table V gives the height of the bewih-marks eatabl.ished at some of the statfons above. mean !-Ow water. These quantities will be useful w compare future series of tidal observations with the present ones, and alro to give permanent points of иNfereftee engineers in charge of marina oonstructiaus, deepening of harbors, &c.

.

ror

68*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

I.
II
[ Interval between time ( j of~ moon's trn!J~it) 'J (иouthmg) a11d tune ot high water.

lli.sc and fall.

Mean duration of-

Sta,ion.

Locality.

I State.\
1

1
Mean.

I
t

Difference! Mean. Sprrng. Neaii.

1 -~---.-- - - - - - - - Flood.\ Ebb.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - - l - - - ---1--\---- --.-- - Coast from Portland to New York. \ \
Portland ........... ---- Atlantic wha.rL. ..иии. 'Me ... i 11 l'-0rtmwuth .ииии.и..... PortConstitution ..и.. 1 N.lI.'ll Newbmyport ии---и- -- .. Custom-house wharf. .. : i\laиs-! 11 Snlem ....................................... MaRи-i 11 :Boat-0n Light ................................. Mass. 11 Bost-On................. Charlestown dry-dock .. Mass.; 11 Siasconsett ..ииии.ииии.. Nantuckc~ ...и.ииии.. Mass.ии.'и11 N11utucket и.....ииии... Comm.erc1alwharf. .и.. Mass.\12 Edgart~wn и..и..и..и... Light.house pier .и.... Mass-, bl HolmesиHofo ................................. Mass.111 Tarpaulin Cove иииии.ииииии.ииии.ии.иииииииии. Mass. ( 8 \Vood's Hole .иии.иииии. Northside ..иии.ииииии Mass.j 8 \Vood'a Hole ........... &uthside........ Mass. 8 Birdd.slandLight .иии... nи~zzard's bay иииииии. MHss.! 7 DumpltngRock ......... Light-house .......... Mass.1 7 Newport .ии.ииииии.и.и. }'ort Adams .иии...и.и R.L.i 7 Point 'Judith:..... . и . и и . . . . . и . ии . . . и и и ии . и . и и. N. iC:.- ! 7 Montauk Pomt, L. I. .......................... N. Y . .I 8 Sandy Hook ииииииииииии...ии.иииииииииииииии. N.Y .. I 7 New York иииииииииииии. Govemor's island иииии N. Y.. I 8 Lrmg Island Sound.

I

I
\
1

and least.

i;~:~~~l i

I

и

I
/

Stand.

I II.

I

1'

[

M. I Feet. [ Feet. Feet. fl. M. 'H. llf. H.M. 44: 8.8. lG.O 7.6 it 6 14 ! 6 12 0 2U 53[ 8.GI fl.Bl :/.2 62'2f607 0 21 l>ll 7. 8 : 9.1 . 6. r. I fl Hi h7 09 0 24 :;o. 9.2 ! 10.6 I 7.6 \ 6 19 I 6 00 () (J() 35 9,3 f lfl.9 i 8.1/620:606 () 15 44 : JU. 1 I 13.1 7. 4 I 6 16 6 18 () 09 27 ! 1.0 i; ........... 5 30 6 54 1 13 371 3.1; 3.6 2.6 1 623 544 {) 09 16 .и..и... ' 2.0 j' 2.;;. 1.6 1 6 51 5 29 0 24 431 0 31 1.7 1.811.3 641 521 0 12 04 0 49 2. 4 I 2. 6 2. 0 6 09 6 17 0 34 06 .....и.. 3.9 Jии--ииiииииии 6 31 5 51 56 1...ииии. ].5 'ииииии иии... 6 03 6 22 5~ 0 45 4.4 5.3; 3.5 6 51 5 58 0 41 3.8 4.6 2.8 650 533 0 42 45 0 2'1 3.9 4.6 I 3.1 6 21 6 03 0 23 32 0 46 3. 1 3.? I 2. 6 6 12 6 10 1 00 10 1 42 2. 0 2. o I 1. 4 6 13 6 11 29 O 47 4.8 5.6 4.0 6 10 6 15 0 16 M. H. 25 \.и (l 23i 0 22 l 0 1:3 i O 12 I 0 22 I 0 53 t 0

j.

1

I i

I

241 ()
i

'"Il
13 00
07

0 46

4. 3

5. 4

3. 4

6 00

6 25

0 28

I

Watch Hill ииииииииииии..иииииииииииииии.ииии. R.I..1 9 Swnington ............. Steamboat wharfиииии. Conn.I 9 Little Gull Island... и и и . . . . . и . и и и и . . . . . . . и и и . . N. Y.. 9 NewLondon...... иии.и. .... .ииии. ..ии и.и. Conn.I 9 NewHaveu .и..ии..ии.и.и...иииии.и.иииииииии. Conn.111 Bridgeport. ................................. - Conn. 11 Oystllr Bay, L. I. ............................. N. Y .. 11 Sands' Point, L. I .иииии.иииииииииииииии.ииии.. N. Y.. 11
New Rochelle и.и.иииииии.ииииииииииии.и.ииии.и N. Y .и 1 n

I

38 28 16
l1 7

0 0

23 30

1 0 1 1

07 52 08 03

0 51

2.7 2.3 2.5 2.6 5.8 6.5 7.3
7. 7

3.4 2.9
3.1

3.f
6.6

2.4
2.1

6 3l} G 15
6 Ol
5 5& 6 24 6 01

2.3 2.1
5.1 4. 7

5 5U 6 }() 6 21

I

I ()

626
6 05 6 07 6 24 6 30 6 35 6 33

14 25 0 37 0 Z2

0

8.U
9.2

5.4

13
22

Throg's Nook ии..ииииии.ииииииииииииииииии.ии. N. Y .. 1
Cnast of Netc Jersey.

111
1'

g ~I
0
O 51 0 47

20

39и1

7.6 7.3

8.9 8.6
9.2

6.4 6.6 6.1

6 08 5 55
5 51

5 50

0 14 0 12 0 43

CQldSpringlnlet ............................. N.J .. Cape May .............. Landing ииииии.ииии.и JJ.J ..
D<latcare Bay and RivCI'.

I

7 8

32 19

4.4и 4.8

5.4 6.0

3.6 4.3

608 611

618 615

0 20

Delaw11re Breakwater .и. ---------------и--ииииiDel.. Higbies ................ NearCapeMay .ииии.и 1N.J.. Egg Island Light .......................... ииии j N .иJ..

и
8 00 8 33 9 04 15

Mahon's Ditch .ииииииии..и...ииии.и.ииииииииии Del.. 9 New Castle ииии.иииииии.и..ииииии.ииииии Del.. 11 Philadelphia............ Navy-yard ииииииииииии. Pa.... 13 Do................ Walnut.street wharf..и 1Pa.... 13

ииииииI

52 1 18 53 ...иии..
0 54

I

0 50 0 43 0 51

3.5

21

0 42

6.0 5.9 6.6 6.1 5.9

4.9

4.5 6.2

7.0 6.9
G.9

7.0
6.6

5. 0 6.6 5.2 5.1

5.1,

3.0 6 15 3.91626 1 552

606

026

6 00
6 43 7 {)l}

6 5 4 4

11 06 61
&2

6 6 21 11 .и : иии

1ииии-и
0 47

7 06

Cliesoptake Bay.

Old Point Comfj)rt иииии. Va иии ! 8 Point Lookout иии - ииииии .......................................... ~fd .ии 12 .Annapo1ia ииииииииииииии Taylor's wharf.иииии.и Md .ии 16 Bodkin Light иииииииииии ........................................... Md .ии 1,7 Baltimore .............. Jacluion's whan..и.ии. Md иии 18 James River .иииииииииии City Paint ...... иии--- Va .ии l4 Richmond ииииииииииииии Rocket's wharfиииииии Va .и. 16

........................... и--и

t7
58

0 50 0 45

2.5 1.4
(), 9 1. () 1. 3

38 42

~3

1.4
28

::~: :~~J

0 40 0 48

2.9 и-и-ии ииии ~. 4 62

0 35 6 15 0 ~ ().8 5 23 7 08 1.3 l.ti 54 6 33 2.6 .иииии ии-иии 5 28. 6 52 0 40

........... ......... 0. 7 l.9 1.0 o.s

6 01
5 59 6 ll

6 2fi 6 19

0.915

....... 1

7 34

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*69

I-Continued.

и
Station. Locality.

I
: State. !

ifntPrval bf'tw~en time !
of muo11~:-< tran~it 1 (i;;outhi11Jl) and time\ of high wawr.
1

Rise and fall.

Mean dtua.tion of-

I
j

I
I

! Mean.
"'l

1IJ

\~';:~~~~ l Me~n. 1 Spring.
gn-atc:"t

--~-----и------,--

Co:::a░f %::!7ii~~r~::~: I gia, aiut Florida. I

\---1~1,:
I
.
H. 7 7 7
8 8

1

___ll!_.--1,и--:---11и--:.
Fra.

&

least.!

1

II;

Neap.

i Flood.
1

Ebo.

I
i

Stand.

j

--1., - M. 25 33 26

Smithnlle иииииииииииии. I Damwkswharf ииииии. IN.C .. 1 Charleston . . и иии и и ии и ии Castle Pinckney .иииии j S. C .. I Savannah River......... Fort Pulnski. и.ииииии. [Ga .и. 1 Savannah City...... и. и. Dry-dock wharf. ииииии , Ga... Cape Florida........... Key Biscayne ..и.и..и. ' Fla... Sand Key ...ииииииииии....ии..и...иииии....и. Fla... Key West.;ииииииииииии Fort Taylor ..иии...и. Fla ... Tampa Bay .иии.ииииии. Fla...

,11. I lf. llf. \ leer. 1 19i o 471 4.f>i 13 i 0 36 1 5. 3 I 20 I 0 41 иi' 7. 0 i
13 20

I
I

c"""'
s.n

,,,~,i.w

w::и;:,:. .и

J.... .. ......... .......

1 ""''' ""'. ... . . . . . ..

Fl>..

r
Feet. 1.1 1.0
1. 0

8 40 1----и-ииI 1.2 2.0 9 22 j 1 12 1.41 2.3 12 29 j 3 04 1. 7 1 2. 5

0 51 , 6. 5, 7. 6 el 44 l I. 7 1 1. 2

I

5.5 6. 3 8. 0

Fut. и II.111. иII. M. и H. 3.6~()01.626.o 4. 6 : 6 3ll 6 09 : 0 5. 9 ' 5 49 6 3.'i i 0 5. 5 G 04 7 2'l J 0
2.1 5 52

I

0.6

'! I

I

1 55

.иииииииии 1 ru,w,
II.-Mcan

r'"''иииииииии cи... ., oa !

,

~'

' ' /

~B

6 31 f> :>5: 0 1:l 0.7 i 6 59 5 Z5 0 12 0. G ' . . и и и . . .иии. I ииииии 612

14 6 \!8 1 ..... .

a.9

!

s.o

~91,

1. 8

i6131......

i

ao , ,,. Io

'░

*From observations taken under the direction of Comtnander Po\'l;ell, U. S. N.

ri~e

and fall 1if tides at ser+eral stations in tl1e Gulf qf lrfexico.
Mean rise and foll of tides.

Stations.

Mean.

IAt

I greatest de[ clination.
Feet.

moon's

'I

-------------------и ------!
St George'f! Island .иииии.ииииииии.....ии..и... Penimeolu,Fla ииииииииииии.ииииииии.ииииии.иии. Fort Morgan, Mobile bay, Ala .иииии.и.ииии...иии Cat Island, Milla иииииииии.иииииииииии _иииииииии Southwest Pass, La .ии .-ииииииииииии.иииии..иии. Isle DemiP.re, La .и.и.и....ии........и....ии.ии G8lveston, Texas .иииии.иии.иии.ии..иии..... _.. Brazos Santiago, Texas иииииииииии..ииииии.иииии

1

At moon's least decliи nation.

Forequinoc- For soleticial ti al tides, tides, addsubtract--

i

i______ ,______ 1_ _ _ _ __

l.B
]. 5 1. 5 ]. 9

Fee't.

0.6 0.4
0.4

.............................................. '
..................... "'i .. .................... .

------ ------ :-и-- ---- ........

1. 3 1. 1 1. 4 1.1

0.6
(1.5

1.4
2.2 I. 6 l. 2

g:i I

~:~

0.7
0.8

...................... -' -- -- ......... --и ...

0.9

0.5

I

и----- ------ :---- ---- ----

U.4

U.l

m.-Table showing tke correcticms to be applied to tlw mea'h. interval between the Moon's southing and the time ef Iligh Water for the different hours of .3foo1i's southing.
Time of moon's southing.
Boaton, Mass.

I I

New York, i Old Point N. Y. /Comfort, Va.

I Smithville, i Charleston, IFt. Pulaski,
:N'. c.

-----i-----Hours. 0 I 2
Min.

Add

4
5

3

11 I Add 7 l Add 16 Add 8 Add 1 i Sub.tract 2 i " 4 Subtract 1 1 " Subtract 7 l " 7 i Subiract 8 11 Subtract " " 14 \ " 18 l' ~и 11 " l6
20 l

I
!

l
Min.

1
j

I
l

S. C.

;

/

Savannah river, Ga.
Min.

Key 'Vest, Fla.

IFrancisco, Sau
Cal.

I

i----1---Min. 1 i Min.
1 1

1

Min.

6 7 8 9 10
11

Add

..

"

22

I 201' "
"

21 I t4; 2

"

21

"

25

11 Add
"

"

20 14 21

!,

29 24 10
31 ..

..

17

"

15
12

"

18 иAdd 5 : Subtract 8 I 22 " 25 " 25
20

10 Add J Subtract 9 " 14
16

Mm.) Min. 4 Add 1 10 I Subt. 22
I

22 I 31 I
33

"

33 34

a.;
4

16
12

25
5 17 , Add 30 34 29

30 33
41 33 27

22

10 : Add 9! .. 22 \ " 18 "

7 Add 23
29 "

2
7 Add 17

8
11 Add 24

и~---'--~----'-------'------.......--~

22" 17 "

29" 24 "

4 Add 8 19 .. 23 .. 17

17

"

19

70*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

IV.
Difference in height of a. m. and Pи Difference frQm mean in interval m. tides of same day. . between a. m. and p. m. tides._ Stations. Average of month. Av'ge when moonиslAverage of month. Av'ge when moon's и declination is" ! declinaticm is greatest. greatest._

l

Diffe~ccinheight

I

of highest high tide and lowest low tide of same day.

H.W.
Feet.
Salem, Mass .и.ииииииииии

---------1---1--------- - - - - - - - - - -.-- - - - - - Feet. Feet.

I L.W.

H. W.

I L. W. j H. W.
Feet. 0. 7

L. W.
H. M.

H. W.
H. M.

L. W. Average. Greatest.
H. M.

If. M.

Fed.

Foot.

0.7
0.3

Old Point Comfort, Va .... Smithville, N. C ..и.ии.ии. Fort Pulaski, Ga .ииииииии KeyWeat,Fla ...и... ---Rine.:>n Point, San Francisco, Cal. иииииии -~-- ииии

0.5 0.6 0.5
1. 0

0.6 1. 0 -..... - --- ---- --- 0.2 l. 0 0.3 0.9

o. 3 0.3
3.6

0-04 -------- -------и иииииии ииииииииии.иииииии

1---~--~--

0.8

2. 1

v.
Description of Bench-marks.
Station. Description.

I , I

Height above mean low water.
Fut.

Portsmouth, N. H ииииииии (Fort Constitution.) The bench-mark is a cross in hliad of copper bolt driven into tho solid rock, nearly in a line between outer end Qf wharf and N. side of sallyport, near SW. corner of fort иииииииииии.ииии.;, .иииииииииииииии Boston ииииииииииииииииии (Charlestown Dry Dock.) Top of stone wap correspouiling tO divisfon thirty feet of tide-gauge, which is designated by copper figures eet in the stone иии New York иииииииииииииии (Fort Columbus, Governor's Islanil.) The bench-mark is the lower edge of a straight line cut in a stone wall at the head of the wooden wharf Qll Governor's Island. The letters U.S. C. S. are cut on tho.same stone иииииииии Old Point Comfort и.ииииии (Fort MQnroo.) The bench-mark is a line cut in the wall of the light-hottse, SW. side, one foot from the ground .иииии и-и-ии .иииии и----и и.ииии иии--и Smithville, N. C ииииииииии (Barracks Wharf, Fort Johnson.) The bench-mark is the top of a granite post sunk in the ground ut foot of first ramp.ииииии-ииии-ииииии---и ......... . Charleston, S. C ииииииииии (Castle Pinkney.) The bench-mark is the outer and lower edge of embrazure of gnn No. 3 ииииииииииииииииии иии--и ии---и ииииииииииииииииииииииииии Savannah River ииииииииии (Fort Pul&ski, CQoks111ir Island.) The bench-mark is the coping of the NE. wharf, and is designated by five copper nails driven into it иииииии.ииииииии Savannah City иииииии.иии. (Dry Dock Whm) The coping of the wha.rf servea as benah-mark, and is designated by five COJWer nails ииииии ии---ииии--и иииии..иииии.ииии.ииии Southwest Pass, Lu. ииииии (East BayQu, Pilot Village.) Tho tide-gauge was in front of the houae of the late Henry Fox. The bench-mark is a cedar post, six feet long, encased in a C!1ppor tube, marked " U. S. Coast Suroey, 1853." It is set into the grnund five foot from the northwest corner of the house, and reaches two feet abovo the ground. The top (not the rim) of the copjHlr tube is the point of reference иии -и иииииииииииии.иииии..иииииииии..иииии.ии.иииии There is alw a. circle of copper nails, with one in the eentre, on the NW. corner of the house, and 11 simila-r one on the left.hand upright at the entrance of the gallery. The centre nails of those two circles are ou the same level, and their height above mean low water isииииииииииииииииии _ии Isle Derniere, La .иии.ииии The tide-gauge was placed iu the mouth of a sm11ll bayou on the north side of the island, one-fourth of 11 mile from the west ond, called Raeoon Point. Two cedar posts are set in the ground on an east Mid west line, ten feet ap&rt, and are marked with copper miils, six inchee below the top. The&e nails are above mean low water.................... и-и-ии ииииииииииииии Galveston .............. . The fower edge of a copper pl&te, H inch square, nailed to a. corner peat of a wareholllle adjoining Doswell'e wh&rf.иииии.и : .ииии.иииииииииии -иии ииии D.ra.zos Santiago, Texas иии The tidtt-gauge was placed a.t the end of the emaJI wharf belongiJlg to the United States Quartermaster's depa.rtment, in tha harbor of Brazos Santiago. Two palmetto posts are eet in the groiind, N$peetively, l~ &nd 136 feet diet.ant from the tide-gauge in a SE. dlrecti&n. Ea.ch of them ha11 a four-inch iron spike, surrounded by eopper nail$, driven int<> it on the WSW. aide, which is the point of r.eference ииииииииииииииииииииииииииии ".

14.60 14.78

14.51
'11.00 9.17 10.13

9.24 8.66

2.11

6.57

2.47

1.24

4.50

Ol' TIIE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*71

APPENDIX No. 27.
On the 'ides at Key rVcst, Florida,, from observatwns made in connexion with tlw United States Co1ist Survey, by A. D. Baclie, Superintendent.-( Communicated by authority ef the Treasury Department.)
Hourly observations of the tides were made at Fort Taylor, Key West, from the 1st of June, 1851, to the 31st of May, 1852, by Mr, J. W. Goss, and other employes of the Cout Survey assisting him. The tides ebb and flow twice in the twenty-four hours, but the diurnal inequality in height is ;relatively large, amounting at a mean to 0. 55 foot, and reaching, in extreme case~, 0. 83 foot. The mean rise and fall of the tide being about 1. 4 foot, a knowledga of the laws of the diurnal inAquality by which successive high or low waters may differ is very important. The corrected establishment of Key West is 9h. 22:m. The curres of Plate I, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, show the normal charact<ir of the tideи at the maximum and zero of the moon's declination at the syzigies and quadratures, and at a mean of declination and six hours of the moon's age. There being two tides in the lunar day, the obserrations admit of discussion by: the ordinary methods, while the large diurnal inequality in height of high water renders it desirable to pursue the mode which I have applied to the tides at Cat island, (Louisiana,) and Fort Morgan, (Alabama.) The reductions by the ordinary methods thus become the tests of those by the other mode. The former were made under mv immediate direction by Lieutenant Richard Wain\\Tight, U.S. N., and )fr. M. IL Ober, U. S. Coast Survey, and the latter by Mr. W. W. Gordon, Wlsisted by Messrs. Mitchell, Romans, and others, of the Coast Survey. The hnlfmonthly inequality in time and height as deduced by the usual method is shown in the following Table No. 1, in which the first column contains the moon's age, the second the mean lunitidal interval corresponding, and the fifth the height. TABLE No. I.

Half-monthly inequality of tides at Key West from one year's observationsи
Interval.
M~'sage.

.

Height.

o.
2.

T.
3.
H. 9 9 8 8 8 8 9 9 10 9
9

0.-T.
4.

o.
5.

T.
6.
Fut. 6.34 6.32 6.26 6. 16 6.06

0.-T.
7.

I.
H. M. fl 30

H. M.
9 21 9 05

1 30 2 :w
3

M. 21 07
54

M.
00 02

4

5 6
7

30 30 30 30
30

8 51 8 47 8 50 8 54 9 22 9 52
9 9
9

46
55

03 01

58 25

8 30 9 30 10 3-0 11 30

49
00

59 59

05 04 03 03 01
01
05

FUJI. 6.34 6.31 6.25 6.17 6.08 6.00 5.94
6.00

Feet. 0.00 .01 .Ol
.Ol

5.97 5.94
6.08

.02 .03
.00

5. 9tl 6. 18

58
58

9 53

-----9 2'2

35

9 35

00

I

I

6.02 6. 12 6.22 6. 30

6.27 6.33

.02 .06 .06 .05 .03

I

The mea.n interval fot this table is 9h: 22m., corresponding to the epoch of the moon's age of 24 minutes, showing that the transit E (of Mr. Lu9bock's notation) and not F should be used in the reduction for theoretical purposes. The compari~on betwee11 the results of observatiun and those from the formnla for the half-monthly inequality is shown in the fourth and seventh columns, the fourth referring to the interval and the seventh to the height. The difference in tho mean is inappreciable, and, at a maximum, fa but five minutes of interval, and six hundredths of a foot of heig-ht. A graphic compllrison is wade en Plate II. Tl!.e va.lue of the constant (A) of the formula for the interval, (A) sin 2 ~ и и tang 2..} 1 +(.A)oos 2 ~is O. 3$, and of E in the formula for the height k = D + E (.A) oos (2 i}-2 ~)+cos 2-./. ls 0.620. The values of the dlurnal ineqwdug of high and low water, both in time and height, were obtained by oomparing the mean value of the interval and height for the first and se<i0nd six months, with the individual values ; they Mlowed ellll!ely the law. of change with the moon's declination. The inequal.it.y in height of high water at a mean is to that of low water as 79 to 61. As the observatif)ns were only made hourly, and the inequality in the ~mterval of high water is small, the minute changes from day to day eould not be expectЕ to @how themselves. The inequalities were grouped according to the d!fferent ,deи eliaations of the moon into fourteen periods, and the approximate formula, given by .Mr. Lubbock, for the vana.tiln from the mean, waa applied. The agreement with theory, as ab.own in the annexed table, is very close; G was ta.ken as l.15.

=

72*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT TABLE No. 2.

Comparison of the diurnal inequality

ef hi9h water at Key lVest, wttli tlie formula
Diurnal inequality.

.

d

i/.- =

1

GtanJ' +(.A) cos 2 tp"

Moon's decli-1 nation. Observed.

Difference
I

Computed. ! I------

I

()

I

3 55 7 15 11 30 15 45 18 55
20

Minutes. 13 25 48 61 74
88

55
3(')

21 21

JOO
95 84
83 52

I

Minutes. 15 29 47 64 78 87 91
rn~

Minutes. -02 -04 01 -03 -04
OJ

55
15

20 17

85

30

13 55
9 15 5 15 2 55

37 25 07

72 56 38 21 11

-------23 +29 52

09 03 -01 11 -04 -01 и04 -04

The inequalities of time of high water were also arranged according to the moon's age, but the agreement of the observation with the fonnnla is not as close as in the former case, as m11st be the case from the small number of observations, and the variation of the inequality following chiefty the law of the declination. The law of change is still evident in the grouping, an<l the plus and minus 11uantities tialanee nearly. The discussion of the diurnal inequality in height will be resumed in referring to the diurnal wave, after noticing the decomposition of the curve of observation into a semi-diurnal and diurnal curve.

Pecomposition

of the curves af

observation.

As in the discussion presented for the Cat island tides, the curve8 of observation at Key West were decomposed into two-one representing the semi-diurnal and the other the diurnal tide. The interval, (E) which was in the former case assumed t;o be coust.ant, was here treated as variable. The observed ordinates being refe1иred to the mean of high and low water of.the Jay as a zero, were tabulatArl, and the maximum ordinates 8 and D of the semi-diurnal and diurll31 curves of sines found, taking (E) g-euerally at its mean value. From these the ordinaБes of each curve for ;he several hours were obtained, and thence the ordinates of the c1>mpound curves. These were compared with obseriation, and E was next made to vary until the value was Sound, which gave the sum of the ditfereWJes of computation and observation, withollt re!(ard to sign, the smallest. и и It was next intended, treating this M a first approximation, to take a different zero-point for the semi-diurnal curve, but the labor necessary has prevented this idea from being followed up thus for, and the agreement of the oompute<l, and otiserved curves is quite satisfactory in the caиes in which Eis not varying too rapidly for safe deductions. The labor and uncertainty of deducing E from the observations in the manner just referr@d to is very considerable, and, after one full comparison made int.bis way, the values will be deduced from theory, and applied t-0 the curves. The approxim1;1te compound curve was next projected on a diagram of suitable scale, and the outline .cut from the pa.per eo as tu apply it to the curve of observation, and thus to find its best position in reference to that curve, and to determine the times of high water. The work referred to in the paragraphs p~eceding the last is mechanical, butthis !fitter requires much judgment, and h88 been executed by Mr. W.W. Gordon. Supposing that some discrepancies observed might result from a sort of personal equation iu ma.king these compa.risons, a second person was engaged to repeat them for verification, and the result showe1l that the comparison could be depended upon in individual cases to within aboUt five mi.Dutes in time in the position of the maximum ordinates. и и Specimens of the accordance of observed and computed curves in normal cases are given on Plate I. The eutl4! correspond to the greatest and least, and to the mean values of the magnitude of the diurnal and 11&wi-di1ll'llal wavtll!.

The tillles of high water from the semi-diurnal curves being taken from the diagram's. Sobjeet to 8ll error, which Mr. This, however, does not appear in thи final results, which agree &II well with theory as those for the heights, n<>t subJect to 11.ny sncb error ofи estimates. The lumudal intervals and heights fu1111d were t.abulawd acoordiug to the moon:. age, RI! in the following tables, which ewt.ain the remit for the fir1t and second six rnou.tlu of the year 11ud f()r the wb.1>le year. The fourth and 1!6Ve-nth columns
G~mlon estimates a" frmp fuur_ to five minutes.

m

OF THE UNITED ST.ATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*73

contain, respectively, the differences in the interval and height drawn from the curves, and from the formula for the halfmonthly ineqnality referred to in the previous part of this paper:
TABLE No. 3.

First six montlis.
Interval.
Moon's age.

1

-~--------,:---- 1 -----.-----~.- -

I

Height.

-

___I
H.M. 0 30 l 30 2 30 3 30 4 30 5 30 6 30 7 30
30

1

o.
H.M. 8 53 B 38 8 29 B 24 8 и28 8 42 9 ooи 9 23 9 31 9 28 9 20 9 09
8 57

c.

I

l

Difference. \

o-c.
M. I 4 l 0 1 2 3 0
1 0 1 2

o.
Feet.
0.75
и 73

c.
o. 75
Feet.
и 72 .66 .58 . 49 .43 .42 .46 .54 .62 .69 .74

1Difference.
o-c.
Feet.
. 0. 00 . 01 и 0-2 .02 и 01 .02

-----i-----l-----11----1----- - - - - I

I

иs

9 30 10 30 11 30

H.M. 8 54 8 42 8 30 8 24 8 27 B 40 9 03 9 23 9 30 9 28 9 19 9 07

t
I

I I

.64 .60 и 48 .45 .42 .44 .53

.oo

.61
.68

.75

.02 .01 .Ol .01 .01

TABLE No. 4.

Second six mO'TttM.
Interval.
Hoon's age.

.

.

I I
e-c.
M. 1 3 l

Height.

o.

c.
H. B 8 8 8 8 8 9 9 9
9 9

иH.M.
0 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
30 30

иI

I l

o.
Feet. 0. 78 .72 .69 .59 .49 .46 .40 .44 .53 .62 .69 .71

I I

c.
0.77
Feet.

0-C.
Fut.
.03 .01 .00

30 30 30
30 30 30 30 30 30 30

H. 8 8 8 8 8 8 9 9 9

M. 53 42 Zl

22 22
34

04 22 31 9 32 9 20 9 04

.M. 52 39 28 21 23 38 03 23

1
L

I I
I

i

o. 01

.68

.75
.59 .49 .42 . 49 .45 .54 .64 .72

.00
.04

4

1 1
0 4 1

.oo
и 01

31

.Ul
.02 .03 .06

9 28
1)6
J9

2

.77

8 56

74*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT TABLE No. 5.

The whole year.
Interval. Heigbt.

:Moonиs age.

____ o_._)__c __и__ ,__ o_-_c_._, __o __и __ ,[__ c_.__ r__ 0-_c_._
1

If. ;'!{. 0 30 l :io 2 30
=~

i_,1. 11{.
D

4

:ui

31)

5
6 7

3(f

3() 30

I

8 9
JO 11

31! 30 30 :io

I

I~ ,
1 .
!l 05

5!:J

j

Jf. 11[. 8 53 8 40

.llr.
()

Feet. 0. 7G

0

8
8

29
22

1
0 0

.67 .59 .45 и 41 .45

.n
и 49

Feet. 0.76
.74 .67 .59 .50

Fut . 0.00 .Ol .00

.oo
.01

8 8
9 !l 9 9 9

2;, 39
03 31 2.':l 19 U7

1
2 1 0

.43
.41 .46
.54

'. 02
и 01 .01

.oo

D 22

1-tl-;-'
Curves sho"иing the remit of these comparison. are l(iven in Plate Y. The great<"иt diJference for the wh(lie year between the nm Rets of nи~ults i8 but one minute of time for the interval, and .02 foot in the beiglJt. The results are in apparent time, the substitution of which. for mean tim!l was, however, appreciable in but a slight degn>e. There are severnl small corr1иctiиms suggestetl by the hypothesis whic11 has been ailopted, but the small value of the residuals render" thl' fo1lowing of them up uuneeesRary. To the last e'omputatious we have reaehed no greater accuracy than is prrиsrnted hy these re~i11nalи, and enulil not fiafely lms" any eouclu"iom on less quantities. The ordinates used in thи' heights are tbP maximum ordinates of the cumponent curves, an1l not thoae of high water of the compound cune; but it i" easily иh""n that "hen tl1e ~alne of (E,) when most nearly constant, is, as at Key West, between about nine and nine and 1t half hours, this diJference is ina.ppredable. The solar day haring been used in this d<>eompo' ition instead of the liinar, the curves arc at a mean twenty-five minutes btиhind their tme phice, and tlie mean lunitidal fote1-val differs twenty.five minutes from the truth; ~dding this quRDtity, it agrees, as it slwuld do, "ith the former determination. и . For the reason just; IM!signed, these nnrubcrs would require correction before using them to determine the consta11ts. This, when made, gives the rewlt as before statetl. и
Diurnal tidrs.

I

9 31 9 :JO 9 211
r1 06

~
I

9 23

:1 l

. 53

2
1 I

.62
.69 .73

.63
и 71

.75

.01 .02 .02

The maximum ordinates found for the 1liurnal tides from the deeomposition of the curves of observation were gronped according to the declinations of the moon, by magnitude witlmut regard to sign, as sko11'1l in the first and second columns of Table No. 5. . . The maximum ordinates may, in this case, be redueed to high water ordinates by a very simple procees, and th11s a comparison be established between this mode of reduction and the ordinary one. For (E) !.Jb. :l<1m., the high water mиdinate is 0.79, the maximum, provided, as in the case at I>:ey West, the time of high water may be taken as that of the semi-diurnal wave. и The foUowing table shows the moon's declination, the corresprmding mean i:na:xhnmu ordinate, twice the. high water ordinate deduced from this, (which is the diurual inequality from our mode of reduction,) the diurnal inequality as uaually obtained, and the difference.

=

TABLE No. 6.
I

Sine

twice

Maximum

moon's declinat111n.

I 'fwice

ordinate.

I

f high I Diurnal inewater ordiи J quality, (C'.) nate, (C.)

Difference, (C'-C.)

Fut.

11 21
3.")

0.12

48

59
66 69

.17 .28 и :J8

Feet. 0.20 .27 .44 .59

I
I
I

Feel.

Feet.

0.19
.28

-.01
.01 -.01 -.01

.

.44

.46
.f:>L и 54

.71
I

.60

.oo

.01

.80 .84 !_ _ _ _ I, .55
I

.70 .79 .83

-.01

Mean иииииииииииииии j

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

'*75

The results are represented in diagram No. 3.
The иtlltement made above in relation to the high water ordinates is not true for those of low water, as the con,ideration of the formula y C. cos 2r D cos (t-E) .;_C will иhow, making E > fl hours. The reverse is the case if E < 9 hours, the statement applying then t-0 the inequality of low watl'r an<l not of high. At Key \Vest, while the high water inequality in height is thus readily found from the maximum ordinate, the low water presents a less accordant result; while at CPilar Keys just the reverиe liccurs, as should be the case. It is plain, also, that changes in the co,.flideutи C, D, and in E, will causA the ineqmrlities in times and heiu:hts to vary, 11.!l well ag those of high and low water, losing all correиp<mdence wich each other, as is also well shown in the aunexed diagram. Mr. Gordon suggests that in the value of (E) will be found the full explanation of the peculiarities of the Petropaulofsk tides deи!'ribed by the ReЦ. J\.fr. \Vhewell. ln diagram No. I, Plate V, E is assumed 9 l1ours ancl S D, arnl the ine11uality of hiii;l1 arnl low w11ter in interval Rnd height correspond to each other. The same is the cиase for E 15 l:wurs. Ju No. 2, E iи 12 hm.ll's, and S D. The inequa'ity in interval of high water is flh., of low water 4h., wh"n tlun in hииiiiht 1tf high wat<>r is 2 feet, and of low water 0 feet. For E, 18 hours and S D, these ineqnalities woulrl be reversed. thtlt of intierval of high water !wing 4h., and of low wat~r ljh, while for height th<" irnии1unliry of higll. water is f!иf~et, a11<1 of low wat!f.r 'l feet. Using the high water ordinates. detern1i11ed as before srated. iastear1 of thии diurnal i1wq11ality in height, from which it has been shown not to differ sensibly, the numbers 'Yere compared with those of Mr. Lubbock'и formula~

=

+

=

=

=

=

dlt

=
.

B (A) sin 2 J cos

(..J,- cp) +sin

\!J' cos.),;

Neglecting the variations of cos ( ..J,-<p) cos ,J,, the cnPfficieuts R and (A) B wииre fonnd hy leaRt ~quareи for th!" separat-e six months and for the year, agreeing sensibly in tlw partial ttn<l t.otal determinations. From t\\'<> years re"ult B = 0. ;,() nnd (A) B 0. 16. 'fhe <иalue of (A) tl1us obtainfиcl fa, M it should l.Je, the same as deduced from the half-monthly

inequality.

=

Tho sum of the sqnarf'S oftbe difference of the number~ from the formula, and from the computed high water ordinates, is for the year but O. 111187 foot; eonected for thtи n11um's parallax. but ii. 1'07..i foot. . Tho individu&l reиnlts are giren in the amw>Yil table, in which the first cnlumn contains th<' urnon's agtи, the second the difference between the eornputed high water ordinateи arnl tll<'. eorrespun<liug qaauritiии" from tlw formulaи for the variations of the diurnal inequality in l1eight, corrected for parallax, and t.he ti.tin[ tlw иa1ue, as u1H:orrl'cte<l for parallax.

и

.

TABLE No. 7.
-------~,-

I I

i
I .

Diurnal inPquality !1eight; ob. h eory. aervatwn-t

_______I
H.
0

Moon's age.

Conoomd.

I Uи-""'
j
010
005

M.

I

30 1 30

005 005

2 30 3 30 4 30
5 6

-085 -035
-075

-030 -035
-080 -070

30 30
3Q

-070
-080

8 9

'

30
30

-090 -065
-020

-085 -090
-065 --1r20

10 30

Ii

-030

30

+oo5

-030

mo

The :reФi.du&Iи are very l!Illall, but follow the law of the half-monthly inequality, as was found, also, from the correspond.-

big results from the Cat Island observations.
The disc11ssion of the value of E, which is in progress, I hope to present at a future meeting of the Associ&tion.
Clra.ngu of flWlll kr>e.l.

The mean level 'of the water at Key West was seen from the observations to undergo remarkable changes from one .period of the year to-another. A comparison of the reductions for the first and second six months shows that the high w&ter of neap tides of the first period risea ac~uaUy to a higher level than the high water of spring tides of the sec~nd. The mean level of the high water fur the first six months exceeds that for the second by 0.48 foot. The fonn of the halfmontbly lnequ&lity is perfectly regular in each six months. The gauge had remained undisturbed; and in seeking for the и llU:plauatioo, it was observed tbat tЦ me&n level -0f the water varied very materially in the two periods, there being a ~which *Pl>Mred to go thro~igh its -va~iatious in the course of the year. и . и The annexed table shows the heights of high water at the eevcral ~es of the moon m the first aad aeoond su months,

relined to the ame zero.

'l6*

XEPO.RT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
TABLE No. 8.

Height of high water. Moon's age. First eix months.
1

Second six months.

H. 0 1 и 2 3

4
5 6

7
8 9 ]()

M. 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30
31l

--;::,-.

-i-

Feet-.6.05 .04 .1.12 5.97 ,86 .75 .72 .72

1

6.63 .59 .48 ,38 .31 .26 .17 ,28

.26

.и 79

11 30

.34 .90 I .4:l 6. Ol I .54 1и .06 1--6-3_9 _ _1 r;. 91

,

.

I

v

I hardly supposed that the numbt'rs representing these eha~e~ of level would furnish evidence of the two in,tereeting titles of long period pointed out by Mr. Airy, (Titles and Waves, Ency. Metrop., p. 355;) but they tlo, and in the case of the moon's action, -.<here the number of averages which cnn be lrrought to bear upon a. sinide result is eonsidera.ble, and the observations run through various parts of the year, the results bear ea11иying to numerical comparison with the formula. Th~se tides, as far as I am aware, have nut been developed fwm observation, though certain general 11.Dalogies pointed to their existence. Dhиiding the numbers showiug the daily level of the water into groups of nearly fourteen. days, each corresponding to the moon's deelination from the maximum to the maximum 11gain, r.nd taking the mean of each set corresponding. to the иame dedination, we obtain a иeries which is the average of twenty-six numllers in which the irregularities of die depreииing end elevating action of the winds will be eliminated, and in whic.h the 81lll's action will be nearly the иamt>. This i;eries presents a tolerable regularity increasing to a maximum 11t zero of declination, a.и shown in the annexed ditJgram 5;No. J. Taking tho mean- level иorthe water for each fourteen days, and dividing tile results into two groups corresponding to the same declination of. the sun, nortb and south, we have a series of numbers which, though Iese regular $an the qj;hera, и и и also rise towards thtl zero of declination, as shmni in diagram 5, No. 2. The results of the first stn-ies of compmations bear very well a comparison with the formula given by Mr. 'Airy: 2 (J.34 X sin ~,.,. 0.61 X fJin .-) (cos 2;. e,) in which ,u. and .. are the declinations of the moon andи aun respeetiv11ly. and/, is the latitude of the place. requiring C 0. Thoee of the second present grenter discrepancies and rn911i,;e C = !, contradicting the former. Though theи weight of authority is that in U.vor of the criterion of the wave theory C 0, the result is inconclusive. In either case the whole number involved is Jegs than the tenth of a foot, the the-0reticnl lunar tide being 0.095, and the mea1ured 0.0!18, while the theoretit al solar tide for C 0 is 0.1!46, and the measured is 0.077. . ии The regularity of the windB of this region, the trade winds taken in connexion with the (ottn.<\f the. harbor, pcint to their action as a source of explanation of this cиhnnge of levt'l. The meteor<1logical tiible1 kept while the tidal observations were made, furnish means of a complete discussion, which is in progreu. I may remark, now, that. wiooa teJHling to elevate the water in the harbor prevail for six months, from March to August inclwive, and those tending to devress it, for the other six months, from September to FebruarJ iuch11иi.-e. 'l'be subject is one in which it is difficult to come to numerical 1иesultи, lieeause the variations in the foue of the wind and the duration both enter into the effect, 11nd di.sYult action sometimeи causes local effects. The иwhole rise and fall is nearly three-quarters of a foot. . . The mean level of the water deduced from the mean of high and low water in eaeh month i11 11hown in t}\e a11119ud table

+

+=

=

=

TABLE No. 9.
Month. Height in !b;.onth. feet. l

Heigl1t in

-J-un_e __-.------.----_-_-: July ______ и.ииииии

.-.J--5-.-6()--1 Decemberиии.иии -!'~
и

feet.

.Auguet. . и и и и . и и и и и

October----иии-иии!
1
I

Sepoomber.. иии и.и.

93 .00

и 78 и 63

f January..........

и, 11

15 March ... :и:.:: ::::~:26 April............. .26
и..~.~ и
11

I<'ooruary

Nol'611lbet' ......... \ ._73 _ _ May.............. ,_ _

t.76

.......

OF THE UNITED STA.TES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*77

APPENDIX No.

2s.

On the Tides qfthe Western coast '!f the United Sta.tes.-Tides ef San Francisco Bay, California, by A. D. Bache, Superintendent [;-. S. Coast Survey.
Tidal observations hav~ been made, in connexion with the hydrography of the Coast Survey, at several points on the Western-coast, agreeing in showing the same interesting fa.ct of the large dillrnal inequality of the tides, already traced by :Mr. Whewell in the observations at the Russian setdement of Sitkfl. The dinrnal inequality in height of theи tides on the Atlantic coast is mneh more conиiderable than in Europe, and the diurnal inequality ofiuterval is also well marked; but both require numerous car<>fuUy made observations to estиblioh tlteir la.ws, in .consequence of the particular relation oetween the semi-diurnal and diurnal waves. On the Gulf of .M:exi<иo, west of St. Ge<Jrge's island, the semi-diurnal tide is almost merged in the diurnal, out the total riиe and foll iи quite small. At Key West, and along the western eoast of .l''lorida, where the diurnal inequality is large, the whole rise and fall of the tides is small, rendering numerous observations necessary to obtain reliable numerica! resnlt~- The same is not the case on the Western coast; observations made for a. short period th.rough the whole nФenty-four hours showing Ii peculiarly large diurnal irregularity as the most remarkable phenomenon of the tides. It becomes one of ~reat practi<:>al importance to the navigator; for, in San FranciRco-hay, a rock which has three and a half (a. .l) feet of water upnu it at the morning high wa.ter, may be awash at h~h water of the afternoon; and charts, of which the иoundingи are reduceJ t-0 m~an low water, will have no accurate significance, being liable to an average error of the soundings, at either low иrater of the day, of 1.18 foot. и The results which I now present, and propose to discuss, are of hfo series of tides obиerved in connexion with the Coast Survey at Rincon Point, in the city of San Francisco, Califomia. The observations were under the direction of Lieutenant Commanding James Alden, U.S. Navy, one of the assistants in the Coast -Survey. They w11re made hourly, except about the times of high and low wAt.er, when the regular interl'llls were fifteen minutes, and the attempt was made to seize the precise time of high and low water. The first series extended from January 17 to Februa1:.i..15, 1852, and the иecond from January 23 to February 17, 1853. Anotlier set of similar observationи was made at Sauce]~, on the northern ~ide of the Bav of San иt'ranciaco, but not with the same care whieh appears tn cbarncterize these.. The results are in general accordant wi1h those deduced from the Rincon Poiot aeries The reduction of the w01иk of 1852 wlll! made bv Mr. W. W. Gordon, and that of 18:>3 by Messrs. Fairfield, Mitchell, and Heaton, of the tidal party of the Coast Survey.office. 1 be results of l85t are projected in the curves shown in diag-ram A, where the abscissre represent the times from 0 hours midnight, и&na the ordinates represent the heights. The scale is such that the intervals becreen the vertical lines correstfl'lnd to two hnur~. and between the horizontal lines to half a foot. The curve besi;ins with midnight of the calendar day, January 16, 17, and ends with nocn of February 15. The epochs of the moon's phase~, and of zero, and maximum declination of the moon, are muktld at the head, and the times of transit at the foot of the dia,!!ram, the curves upon which, for convenience of the pa.ge, have been 'divided into two parts, so arrauge<l with respect t-0 ea"h other that the days of corresponding dedi11ation fall nearly over and under each other. The curves of the series of 1853 present the ume general results, with about the sa.me exteut of irrel(uluitiea. These tides obviously present a ca.se of large diur11al inequality in height; tl1e interferene., of.the diurnal and semi-diurnal waves going to produce one large and otltl srna.ll tide irt the twenty-four lunar hours. When the declination of the moon is at it.1 maximum, the difference in the hei11hts of Cfиnsecnti'l'e high and low w11ters i1:1 nearly at its maximum; 8Ild wh.,n the declination is nearly zero; the difference is the mwJlest. The diurnal inequality iii the interval is also perfectly well marked in these tides, 1LIDounting, when greatest, m about two boun for high wa.ter, and one hour and eleven min11tes for low l\'atcr. The nlillaldi~etissions of the times lilld heights, corresponding' to the same time. of transit of the moon, were made frilm the two eeriesиoLt>bиervations, a defoct haviait been found in the operation of referring the lc<"e! of one tidtи-gange to the иother, the twp series of heigllts were combined, by ass,iming the mean' height in each series to h11ve been t.he иame. The results were plotted 011 n diagram like B, but on a larger soalu, for the purpose of graphical corrections in the mode u.ead b1 Mr. Whewell. и The ordinates of the diagrams Noa. I and 2, (diagram B,) eorrespond to the lnnitidal intervals, and of Nos. 3 and 4 to the heights-the abscissre, in each ease, to the llours of the moon's.transit. The seale is shown 11.t the top und side of each diagram. No. 1, diagram B, shows the re~ults for thtt ha1t:month1y inequality of interval of high water, and the eurves traced by them; No. 2 the same for low water; No. 3 иhows the half-monthly inequality iu the heigllt of high water, and No. 4 in that of low war.er; the dots ahow where the observations full. The comparison of the curves, with observatioe ie given in the annexed table:

78*
Oompari,srm,

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTE.NDENT
TABLE No. 1-,

of approximate curves of liaif-monthly inequality of
observations.

the tiiles at Rincon Point, with

Moons'age.[_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 'N_T_E_n_v_A_L_._ _ _ _ _ _ _

l________
I
High water .и

n_E __ и_G_H_T_._ _ _ и _ _ _ _ _ 1,Moon'sage.

High water.

/

Lowwater.

Low water. Ohservat'n. и.

- - - - 1 - - - -.. ,---1
observat'n.1 Transit F.

I

.
Curve.

i----i----1--~-----1----

;Observat'n.,

IObservat'n.

,From ctlrve.;
I
i

Cu-:e.

IFrom curve.\
I

-H-~-._t_:_I ~ gI =:! ~ Д ,--=-M-i-.1
8 9 10

I

jNrom curveи.,:
1

c:e. j!From
t~~

curve.

Cu-:e.

,I

Transit F.

:]
30 50 .69.

I
I

ff i---:~-,l-.
3
+15 -15 5

..

~ 11
-41 +27 -19

!
30

~~

12

30 30 30

!~ ! =111
46 ии [ 39 j 27 I -12 - 2 1
I

18

~!

=1!

11 30
Mean...

___1_1_1__~~ 1
12 03
\I .

II

33 27 15

1

57

I . I + :-=_:__:___ .so _____ -_4_
I'

9 6 3

lI и. 7j~
I

:~
J.

.50 и 40 .25

I

▒i~ ,. ~9и ~30~
10 30

.10

-j--116

u

~

17 55
1

ti~

+~l9
-40

i-----

▒i~

"

The results, both for intel"Va.l and height, are very good, considering. the sma.11 number of observations (four,) of which each is the mean. The heights are, as umal, less regular than the ,times, and the results for the inequa.lity of the height ofи low water are the lea$t regular of all. The approximate mean lunitidal interval for high water, or corrected establishment of Rincon Point, is 12b. 03m. This correspQnds to an epoch of 0 hours, showing that the tides belong ro the next prece~ing transit (transit F) of: the moon, and not of the fifth preceding, (transit B,) as was found by Mr. Lubbock for the tides of Great Britain. 'I'he epoch for low water correspondR a.lso almost exactly to 0 hours. The same thing ill shown, less forcibly, however, by, the discmsion of the observations before referred to at Saucelito. и . 1'~rom curve No. I, it appears that the difference in the lunitidal intervals for 3h. and for 9h. is lh. 20m., or (A) of .Mr. Lubbock {tan 200) is 0.342. The difference between the heights of high watet, at spring and neap tides, is, f'rom diagram No. 3, 1.12 fuot, and E of Mr. Lubboek

~Ф~)=I.66.

The two series of observations, diacusaed

~paratelf,~~~eи resultil

which did not differ materially from thtlse. Thew numbers will serve 1t11 a. first a.pproximation. . It should not be forgotten that, the observations having been made in suceesaive ye&r11 in the llllllle month, tlie moon's age and d~lination, and the 1un's declination, are not very dilferent, and the sun's d-eclination is nearl7 the ume on the oorre-

sponding days. и и The diurnal inequality obtained by the usual method i& given in the Mnexed table, No. 2. The two 11eriea are combined by taking the averages for the days on which the doolinatioo.& eorreepond in the two aeries. Each average is thua the !IMllll of four inili.vidual results.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR IS5a. TABLE No. 2.

JJiurnal inequality of interval and hei.<1ht for high and low water, from obstrvations in January, 1852 and . 1853, at Rincon Point, San Francisco, California.

High Interval.

~ater.
I Heights.
Ft.

J_ _

r.o_w__,~_a_te_r_._ _
Ft.

1

, Interve.l. , Heights.

----иH. M.

I

1 44 1 57 1 47
2 17 I 1 41 I 1 43 i 1 41 ! I 20 I 0 1 и. 0 ~ o 23 I -0181 ..;_1 Ol ! и--1 42 I --1 5()5l \. -2 -1 49 I -1 -1 41' -:-1 26 -1 09 ! .-:-0 59 l -0 32 J -0 09 ! o 29 I () 46 1 51 I i 5s I

-J.85 ' -0 51 -J.81 -1 03 - J. 63 -0 47
-1.59 -1. &2 -1.33 -1.05 -0.66 -0.17 (), 32 o. 11 1.72 1.90 2.01 I. 88 l. 86 1.s4 1.90 l.65 J. 42 1.00 0. 29 -0. 30 -0. 97 --1.42 -1.56 -1. 70 -0

l , , ,---'-1----------H . ...._

January 19, 1852, and January 25, 1853. 3.01 3.44' Moon's max. dee. 3. 75

-o

--0 -0

5~

+o

40 40 30 23 07 0. 38 1 05 o 50

058 1 01 1 14
1 00 o 57 0 u 0 42 o 35 0 20 --0 08 -0 35 -1 l5 -1 11 -1 12 -o .f6
-0
ииииии

1

12

3. 72 3. 46 3.07 и2.57 2.00 1. 37 o. 50 -o. 41 -1.44 -2.19 -2.85 --:1. :36

Moon's dee. zero.

Pebruary 1, 1852, and Pebruary 3, ~853. Mooa's dee. max.

121

I

I
'1

-:3. 48 -3.48 -3.2ti -2.99 -2. 50 -l.90 1. 29 -0. 50 0. 26 o.95 1.85 2. 51

Moon's dee. zaro.

2 11

Hean~:.:.

1 21 \

--11l. 36

-1.s2 --1.и 3,;_ v

30

2. 99
и1и

February 15, 1852, and February 17, 1853.

ииии1ииии ..... .
2.36

- 0-47

These numbers are projected on diagram C. where the ordinateB correspond to the intervals fur one curve and to the heights for the other, and the abscissm to the tidal days for both. Notwithstanding the small number t>f o!.sarvations, the curve& be triwled with tolerable certainty and follow the general law of the inequalities. Each curve shows &n intiquality increasiuR ..ud decreasing with the moon's declination, nearly croseing the zero line at or near the zero of declination, 11.nd reaching a maximum or minimum at the maximum of north or wuth declination. The observations do not furnish sufficient ev.idenee to decide positively thAt the tipoohs of the иeverai inequalities coincide with those of the decliriatitm or otherwise.' иOn the average, diey are about half a day before the corre~pondiltg declinatian. The inequality in the height of high water and in the interval. of low water increase and decrease tog.ether, and so of the inequality of high wnter and height of low w&ter. The declination of tli.e moon 8Jld the inequality iu interval Of high W&ter and in height of low water hav~the BSme llign ; the reverse is the c88e with the other two inequalities. The iaeqna.lity in .the height of low water is in general greater th1111 that of high water, exoeeding it when at the mui. mum in the proportion of two t.o one, {nearly 1.9 to 1.) The same relation emta between the maximum inequality in interval of HIGH water 1!.11 compared with that of LOW, (1.7 to I.} . . The muimum inequality in the height of low water is 3.(i() feet, and of high watei;' J,85 foot. The ma:ximnm iueqllality of interval of high water, Ill! shown by thи curve, is lb, 03m., and of low water lh. 7m. и I am indebted to иM~. Heaton, of the tidal party, fur tlte dacomposition, nuder the direction of Mr. W.W. Gordon, of the Clll"Ve& of the daily observations in 1852, by the method adopted by me for the discuasion of the tides of the Gnlf of Mexico. Though, froon aome triil.111 which. I have wade, tbelle decompositions may be Improved. they are, nevertbelellll, of great~и .aad show well the cauaee of the fol'lllfl - 0 0 by the curves of diurnal inequ&lity in height and interval, and for high иd low water &nd their relations. When the ol>servatio1111 now in progress on the W eetern coaat shall have giV611 additioJlal resnltl!, I propose to take up this braneh of the subject again. In the mean time, it appean ro me, the reesltM now obtained are of aufficient intereet to be presented ro the Allllooiation. I have taken, u an ~ample of the decompoeition, the curve from the Ql>wervatMlnи. of Juuary 21, 1862, the Yeaulta COml8ponding Dearly to the muimum of tb.e moon'и deellnlltion and to fllll IDOOll. The dlnmal cmnre, ioo interlerence и(}f wblch with the eemi-dillmal produceи we furm. shown in diagram A, 11.11-d also oa a l&rget"" 1cale in diagram D, is given on the diagram. It& maximum Qrdin$t;e, aa found by summing die two 1eries of b&ighta &om the hwd7 ~nationи in which the aame values of the ordinate of the dinrnal curve ocear with oppoaite Qglw, and refetrinf .,..,_,,f*te of tdnea hr their relation to the muimumиol'dinate, la 2.W feet.

canи

8.0*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

The sum of the squares of the diJl'erenc~s between observation and computation is tbe least when the interference take~ place, as shown in diagram D, the maximum -0 rdiuate of the diurnal entve hoiu~ seven hours and a half from the maximum ordinat~ of the semi-diurnal eurve. Subtracting the ordinates of the diurnal curve, assumed as a curve of sines for the lieightи given by the hourly observations, we have a residual иcurve, which is truced 011 the diagram. The average of the four loOf>B of this cunиe is almost piиecisely a cnr<'e of sines, of wlaich the maximum ordinate is 2.30 foet. . The tidal curves near lhe maximum of declination, and for several days each side of it, reиnlt from the interference of a semi-diurnal and diurnal wave, which at the maximum of each nre nearly eи1ual in ma.guitude, the crest of the diurnal wave being at that period about eight hours in adv11Dce of that of the semi-diurnal wave. и The annexed table gives the comparison made in the diagram. The first column contains the ordinates of the curve of observation: die second, those of the diurnal curve of sines; the third, those of the residual curve; thl) fourth, the ordinates of the semi-diurnal curve, which m<>st nearly eatisf'.v the residual; and the fifth, the small remaining diffotиences-on the average, being about 0.14 foot. The crest of the diurnal curve is seven and a half hours from the semi-diurnal, and its maximum ordinate is 2.2 feet.

TABLE No. 3.

Analysis

of curve of obseri atians fr January
1

21, 1852.

Rincon Pmnt.
DiJferenees.

I

I

Ordinates, curve 10rdinates,diurnal i Ordinates,resir- Ordinate&, semiof observations. curve of .sines. I al curve. diurnal curve of sin ea.

Feet.
-0.~3

-1.63 -2.9S -3:'33
--4,03

-3.68 -2.73 -1.48 -0.23
J.47 -1.72_' -I.52 и 77 .17 -.33 - .28 .07 .87 1. 87 2.72 3.32 3.27 2.62

+o.n

+

.

Feet. -0.28 -0.83 -1.33 -1.72 -2.00 -2.16 -2.16 -2.00 -1.72 -1.38 -0.83 -0.28 +o.28 .83 I. 33 1. 72 2.00 2.16 2.16 2.00 1. 72 1. 33 .83 .28

i

I

Fut. -li.05 -0.80 -1.65

.

-UH

-2.03 -1.52 -0.57 +o.52 1.49 2.15 2.30 2.00 1.24 - .06. -l.16 -2.(15 -2.28 -2.09

Fed. 0.00 -1.10 -1.82 -2.'Б1 -2.20 -1.70 -0.70
10.70 1.65 2.20 $2.30 I. 90 1.60 0.00 -1.30 -2.05 -2.28 -2.15' -1.&0 -0.20 +1.20 J. 97 2.32 2.20

Feet.
-0.05 .30 .17 .36 .23 .18 .13 -0.18

.

-fl.HJ
-0.05

.oo

.10 -0.36
-U.06

.

+o.a . 00 .00 .06 .07 .20 .02 .12 .14
.~~

-1.29

I I
I

-0.13 +1.00

1.99
2.44 2.34

I

For equal maximum ordinates nf the diurnal curve and Pemi-diurnal curve, 2.1 feet. we have for E::d3 houn; the aiurual inequality in height of high water 2. 03 feet, !?f 18 feet gre11ter than. the mean found by the curve of diurnal. inequality, and of low water 3.57, or .03 foot len t:han -the value given by the curve. So, nl111>, for the inequality in the intervals of hlgh and low water, we have, respectivelyФ 105 and 61 minutes, instead of 113 a11d 66 given by the diagram, differing but 8 and 5 minutes, respectively, liDd having the 11ame ratio tO each other as the latter nlllJll>ers. The mode of interference thps e:xpla.ins aatisfactorily the eurious relations of the inequality of ooth time and height of high aild. low water. Taking the val11!l$ of the mo.ximum ordinate of the diurnal curve (D) as dednceil by .Mr. Heaton, tracing a eurle fur them and folding this over on its greatest ordinate, ae a hinge, we bring five values of D to the determination of each point in the enrve from the ob;iervat~ons of 1852. .Treating tbe carve of twice the sine of the moon's deelination in the aame" way, we obtaiu a curve fur 001Dpnri~o11 with the former. Neglecting the sun'и action, we have for theory m sin. 2J'-D. 'l'aking the mean of the values of D, which nearly c<Jrrespond t.o ea.eh other in t.he half dooriaation, and the mean of the corresponding values of the sine of twice the declination, we obtain m=и.!9 aearly. ." The following table. No. 4, gives a comp.ari1on Of the values of the K61Ili-diurnal ordinates, and of m Sin. 2"1' I have al.so deduced the diurnal inequality fmm Mr. Heaton'a compound or interference cnrtes, 1111d have oompared iи in the aame way with m line 2J'. The value of m fuund from these, was m=28. The biat eollJDHi o'f TallleNo. 4 :refsN to tliil COU!parieou.

.OFT.HE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.
TABLE No. IV:

*SI

Slwwing tlw 11alues of the maximum ordinate o/the diurnal curve (I>) duluced.from analyzing the curves of observation and compari1╗on with theory; also the value of compariso1~ of the cHttrnal inequalilie.., rnea:mrcd on ilte cor1111ou1td curves.
I

No.

I
и

D.

Diurnal inи equalityM sine 2J. Difference.

Ht.H.W.
from curve.

----Feet.

Foot.
2.17

1 2 3 4 5 6 7
и

2.13 2.-0l I. 79 1. 54 1.16 0. 81 '0.25

2.00
1.33

1.55 1.20 0.76
0.26

. 04 -.01 и 04 . 01 .04 -.05 . 01

I

FM.t.

2.2 2.05
1.85 1.5 1.1 J.6

o.o

The agreement of tlie several result& compared appears very satisfactory. The changes in the value of E have been distinctly traced by Mr; Hea~ from the observations; but before presenting the oonclusionиon this subject, I desire to subject them to the test of further computations, which are UO\\' in progress. In order not to interfere with the regular work of the hydrographic party, a separate tidal party has been organized under the dfrootion of Lieutenant Trowbridge, of' the corps of engineers, assistant in the Coast Survey, and snppfaid with . the иnecessary means for a full investigation of the tides of our \Vestern coast. It jg proposed to establish three permanent self-registering tide-gauges, under intelligent supervision, at San Diego, San Francisco, and Columbia river entrance, and to connect them by observations at suitable iuwrmediate points. There are difficulties to be overcome in the cb.arncter oftbe.coaat itself, and of the aborigines who still inhabit portions of it, but I expect, nevertheless, entire snceess frciln the seal and ability of Lieutenant Trowbridge. :~"и,The following tideи table results from the observatiOns pll'eady discussed. COtTeQ~d establishment at Rincon Point: High Wll.tar, 12 hours 3 minutes; low water, 17 hours 51 minutes. и Mb&n rise and fall of tides, 3 feet 11 inches; of spring tides, 4 feet 11.8 inches; of neap tides, 2 feet 11 inches. Mean du,rapon of rise 6 hours 30 minutes, inelu.ding half the. stand; full 5 hours 52 minutes, including half the stand ; ,:atand, 30 :mi.tultss.

j High water. , ~w wa.ter.
--~--~---'---------------~---------------------------------------1----------\1----~~~
Diurnal inequality of height.
Ft. In.

Average for the whole month~---и---и-и-и- ии. ии--ииии-и __ ии .ии _ииииииииииии. --и.и--и-_ Greatest value иииииии _________ ии---ии--и --и-иииии-иии---иии-иии иии.иииииии..иииииии
.Diurnal inequality irt inteM1al.

I

2

03 11

Ft: 1...
2

04

3

00!

иAverage for the whole month .и.ии - - иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии -и иииииииии Greatest value и.ииии - ии - - и ии и иии -и ииииииии и -- ииииииииииии ии.и ии '. ....и ииии и.и иии и-и и ииии

H. M. 1 02 2 00

H. M. 0 45 l 06

DiJference in height of highest tide and lowest tide in day: average, 5 feet< 11 иincbtlll ; greatest, 7 feet 7 inehee. When the moon's declination is north, the highest of the two high tides of the day is the one which oee11re about.twelve hours after upper C!Jlmination. ,. . . I have given elsewhere, fur the use -Of navigators, a set of rules founded on th0lle observations, And oont.aining no technical term unfumiliar to them.

APPENDIX Ne}. 29~
Notea и '

░" tac Tides at San Francisco, California, by
. . ,

Proft,uor A. D. Bache, Superintendent U. B. O<Jast Survey.
Co.t.no. S'EIRVKY Ol'F1ru::, Feb'nilarg 17, 1853.

Sm: l 8tll at proaent engaged in preparing notes Oil the tides of 't;lie West.ern COtUt of the United StGtea; and Wieting that, in advance of them, a sttttement of the general remlts for. San F.tAneieco, Califurnia, may be of aeniee to 11&vigatora, l have the hO'llOr to sllbmit it berawith, and to request anthority mr~ publieation. и I have avoided .the 11116 of ecientifio term., exoopt mdl u are fa.mi.liar to aemnen.

j1и

82*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

Noles on tlie tides at San Ji'ra'nci,,co, California.
Besides the ordinary chRnges in the titne and height of the tides known to all navigators, it is important t,o note the fol lowin11;, gen .. rally applicable to the >V estern coast, and ~particnlaTly to San Francisco bay They relate t,o peculi.a.rithis i.n the tides which occur on the same day, the necessity for knowing which is shown by the fact that a rock having threef~ and,, ht11J of water upon it at low tide; may,-at the sttcceffiing low water, on the same day, be awash: 1. The tides at Rincon Point, in San Francisco bay, consist generally of a large and small tide on the saml\, da.y; ao that of two successive high wat.ers in the twenty-four hours one is much higher than the other, and of two successive low "WateTS one is much lower than the other. .' . 2. The diJferenee in height of two snccegsive tides {either high or low waters) varies with the moon'e declination. When the declination is nothing, the difference is nothing, or very small. When the declination is greatest, whether itouth ol' n<>rth, tbe difference is greatest. \Vhen the moon's declination is nearly nothing, the intervals between two successive high or tW? ~necessive low waters are nearly twe1'e hours, and differ most from this when the moon's declinati<>n ia greatest.ии .. и. 3. The fo~qualitiel! in the heights of successive low inters are more considerable than those of 1uece11Sive high wa,ters; "1Vhile, on-theи contrary, tbe inequalities in the times of high water are more marked than th()Se Qf low. . и 4 The average difterenPe he.tween the heights of two successive high waters is one foot fottr and a half inches; and of hrn sncce&sive low waters, two feet and four inches. The average difference of these same heights, w~en the moon's declination is great.est, iи for the successive high waters two feet, and for the low waters lhree feet six inches. 5. The average variation froljl twelve hours in tbe int..rval between two snccessive'"liigh waterg is throo quarters .of an:и hour, imd between two successive low waters hnlf an hour. The average variations of the same intervals w;hen tbe moon Is и и furth-0st from the equator nre, respectively, one hour and three qmrrters of an hour. 6. When the moon's declination is nurtb, the higher of the two high tides of the twenty.four hours is tbe one which occurs about eleven itnil a b11lf hours after tl1e moon crosses the meridian, (souths) and when the moon's declination i,ll south, the one which occurs about one hour anq a half after the moon's meridian passage, (Mmthing.) и 6 fJis. O~ the following rule may be used, which applies when the moon crosses the meridian between midnight 11.lld ll;l a. m., or betweeu noon and 11~ p. m.: . . и If the moon is sout4 of the equator, n.nd. passes the meridian (souths) in the mornimi;, the morning high water. will be higher than the afternoon high water, if, in the afternoon, the afternoon high water will be the bigher. и If the moon is north of the equator, and passes the meridian (southи) in the morning, the afternoon high water Will be the higher; if in the afternoon, the morning high water will be the higher. 7. 'fhe lowest of the two successive low waters of the twenty-four hours occurs about seven hours after the highest of the two higb. waters. . . 8. The al'erage difference between the height of the highest high water and of the lowest low water is five feet eleten and a half inches, and the greatest difference is seven foot ten inches._ и ╗"I: Very respectfully, yours, Hon. THo>rAs Coaw1N,
&Cf'daTIJ of tho Treasury.

A. D. BA.CTIE,

Superinte~111.

APPENDIX No. 30.
Extracts from letters ef L. F. Pourtalc8, Esq., assistant i11, the Coa&t Suney, to the S1tperintcndem, upon t!te cxami11ation <!I specime11.11 ?f bottom obtained in the exploration cf tlte Gu[l Stream, by Licuts. Oamg. 1'. A. M. Craven and J. N,.. Maffitt, U. S. Namj, assistant.$ "11, tke Ooa.~t

Survey.

,. .

Dua Sra: I have in hands, now, the speeimenи of bottom from the Gulf Stream, obtained by Lie11tenant:Cni.ven, and I can 11&y th1J.t they are among the most intertl&tihg I.have ever seen. You reoolleet-the.t I said in my repol'tB, that with the inи creaS<) in dept;D-in the greater depthll-'-t~ no,inber,oUndividuala e.ppeared to increal!e. The greatest depth from wbieh I h&.d seen epecunena was betwe!ln two hund.reid and- tlre111 hundred f&thm;ns. There the sood contained, :perltaps, 00 per cent. of. foralllinifeTre, in b?l~. The Bt>~i~ne.ut ~ew before me go to 1,050 .fAthoms; and theTe it is no longer 11\nd. eontaiuins fur11r mlllifeno.и.but foraminife_rw contamug. a httl6',or.no aaud. The grams of sand have to be searched 1-0i: carefully., under the mieNuope, to be noticed at all. The apecie11 are the Btmle. as foll!ld in the deeirer 1!0Ullllings in Seeti<>n II, but the specimens look fre1<her; and appear somewhat ltt.l'ger. 'Ihe <J/Q/Jigerina Trina of d'Orbiguey, which forms the llllljority~ liaa frequently that delicate pink color to which it owe11 иitli .name, but which I c.annot "re00llect to have nuticed in mote oorthи em specimens. There are al110 eome pieces of coral ana.deAd shells from the depth 11f 1;()50 .faciroms. The cural.1 do not look much worn, but 111till appee;r to have been deid. и There 11.l'C some delicate shells of molluses from deptbJI heyowl 500 fathome, where they were certa.inlyliring. и и
ff .,. :

~ ~"

...

и

.

,

.,

,, "'

'

.

restdt6 of this examination.

At your request I have e:xamined the apecilnea~_of .bottom obtained by aouud.ihgs ill the Gulf l.'!tr$1D, ~ lately by Lieutenant T. A. M. (,'raven, U. S. N., assis~ in.Coast Survey; a.nd l now beg to malte the ~whig~~ 011 the

и

и

и

The speeilnerie are from.thirteen localities, on the edge and in the Gulf Stream, .of' the ea.stern. Wa,t;: of the pellimula of Florida. I propoae to give now a sllort de8criptioo <Jf the ch11.ractetistiee of each of tbfml. . ии 1.-Position 2. Lat. 26: 12', long. 790 rw, dept~ 6UO f!!Nhoma. Thia apeci.nl1'ft eellSl.ltt :~ .eutire]y:o{ roramillifemi, with a very amall proportiOO of qu&.rtlmse sand, eat.nnated at aoont 10 per cent. ill 1mltl. Ol!l6f,prin4.11Jmzlbrin..tlreman, with a. pre~y large pro.pwtivn <>f RDtalma cultrata, Qrllulitta rmi~rsa, nd TGt--.и~11r: ti<Qi~ eomaina minutQ ~ ropoda (nati~.alW!sa1) and f.ragmeats of the iih~l ot a crab. The wltokt iaof a~ white c..olor, ()Jlly a few of the bJierilll!e fulin.g pink, : и' и .и . . и и и II.-Positi<m 4. Lat- 21░ 37',long. 79░19', depth 600 fathom11; haa the ~etHif Ii~ white mud, m:iud 1tltb yelи low 11md. It ill oomp.;aed entirely ef forllfll.inifene and theil' fragm~ta, iu tliotimu of a fine powderи. ?iииMx- A.cl&

po

0.F THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY .POR 1853.

*83

dis11olve the whole, lem:lng a Jlocculent green!eh matter,-probably animal matter. The species are the so.me as In the preceding, with the addition of Margirmlina-Baehei, (rare,) ~talina Ehrenbergii, a Biloculina and a crimson Rotalina, (both rare;) also small shells, and the habitatiOЦ of иa worm composed of agglutinated foramiuiforre. III.-Posuion 5. Lat. 28" 04', long. 800 13', depth-15 fathoms. Coarse yellow sand and broken shells; equal proportions of both. IV.-Positwn 6. Lat. 2-3░ 21', long. 80░ Hl', depth 20 fathoms. Dark-gray sand and bmken shells; very little qnartz. The black parts of the sand make a dark-gray mark when crushed, and are dissolved with effervescence in acids. Probably a limestone. V.-Positi01i 8. Lat. 28░ 21'. l<!Dg. 790 52', depth 100 fathoms. fine dark-gray mud, composed in part of very fine qua.rtzGw su;nd. Of organized beings it contains a bivake shell, a fow very minute Rotalime, spiculi:e of sponges, and soи called lnfas'1ria, of the genera Coscinodiscus and Trieer11tium. VL-Poиition 11. Lat. 280 24', long. 79░ 13', depth I ,050 fathoms. Composed of foraminiferre; silicions sand in almost imperceptible qwmtity. A small portion taken from the lnwer part of the spe~imen, afi;er иhal<ing it with water, ouly showed one or two per cent. of silicious sand 11.fter dissolution in acid. Globigerina ruhra (white, yellow, :and pink-the two firn C<>lors predominant) forms the greater bulk. Also, Orbulina 11niversa, Rotalina cultraia, Baylcyi and Elp-en/,c~![ii. ?f other animal remains there wore found pieces of coral, (cariophyllia-?-ao1~e wl1itc and worn, and llOtlle brown, and m better eondttion;) a piece.ofaJarge Gasteropod, old; aud worn pieces of A.natifa, and very small pteropods, (SpirateHa.}. VII.-Position 14. Lat. 290 22', long. 79░ 59', depth 1'5u fathoms. Same kiud of bottom as No. V; conrai11s a fewи Diloculinre. и VlII.-Position 15. Lat. 29░ 43' 0", long. 800 37' 0'', depth 19 fathoms. Coarse qnartzose sand and broken shells, like .No. Ill. и,, . tt-Position 17. Lat. 290 50' O'', long. soo 6' 0", depth 300 fathoms. Mud, like Nos. V and VII; contains Globigec

rmre.

и

и X.-Fosition 20. Lat. 29'< 48' 0", long. 79░ 3 l' 0", depth 560 fathoms. {llohigerina rubra and Rotalina cultrata, in about eqoal proportions. No quartzose sand or other material. ,.. XI.-Positi-0n 21. Lat. \llP 48' 0", long. 79░ 17' 0", depth 45.l}иfathoma. 6lobigcri=, Orbulinre, and !Wtnfow, (R. eul.trat.a..) No quartzose sand. It contains, all!(l, considen1.ble llmnbers of very delicate sheHs of pteropod molllll!CS, belong,ing to tit' genera Hyalrea, Spirialis, 11.nd Spiratella: also, small pieceБ! of coral. :. XII.-Position 27. Lat. 3t 0 2' O", long. 79░ 35' 0", depth 150 fathoms. A mixture, in about eq11al proportions, of Globiиgerin!O and black sand-probably green sand, tLS it makes a. green mark when crushed on paper. XIIl.-Posilian 3~. Lat. 300 50' 0", long. 780 49и O", 520 fathoms. Globigerinre, Orbuli'lllE, Rotaliiia;, ( cliltrala a.nd E11rcnи bergii,) small shells, (8pirialis Gouldii, Spiratella.,) small spines of gcbiui. No quartzose sand. . : A. few interesting remMks suggest themselrns from tbe above examiuation; bttt before passing o'l'cr to !hem the following <JUOl!tion has to be answered: Are these small animals actuolly living in the localities from which th@y were obtoined, br IJ-vtl и~ey been gradually washed down from the reefs neaiи which the current has pas.ed 1 I feel iuclin.,d to answer t:bet they were li'l'ing where found, from the fact that the greater number of the individualR are perfect, notwithstanding the great delicacy of their shell. The delicate pink color of the Globigerinre would scarcdy be preserved in specimens trmaported .froi:p. a. distance. и .. '. The bestиargument in favor of this opinion is, perhaps, the fact that the same species are fc>und in a perfect state as far и.Btlrth '11.R the ooa.st of New Jerse)I and New l'ork: It is very singular, h-0wevtir, that the same speeies should also be found ии l.ivhig on the shores of Cuha, and of some of the other West India islands, under exceedingly different circnmstanellB of light and temperature. и . If we admit their living in the great depths w!IBre we hn.ve found them .in such abundance, we are enabled to e~d the limits of animal life to a. much greater depth than is usually admitted. Prof. Edward 1''Grl1-0s, in his report on tile distribution o(.Mollusca and R&diata in the Egean sea, (Reports of the British Association, 1843,) supposea that in.depths beyond 300 fathoms animal life doeg not exi~t. In a former report on this subject (Proceedings American Association, Chflrlest.on meeting) I remarked that the Globigerime Tuhra aeemed to increase ill a.buudance with depth. I had then seen specimens from depths not exceeding 267 fathoms, and its greatest abnad&nce did not exceed about 50 per cent. of the mass. We have now found a maximtllll of its occurrence at a depth of 1,05!1 fathoms, where this and allied forms constitute the entire bottom. It is but reasonable to Фuppose that still deAper expforati-Ons Wf>uld show a gradual de11rease foi;a considerable depth before it should ec11Be to appear, as WM sllown fur other species living in more shallow water in tlle report alluded tv. In ooneluding I would remark, how important a knowledge of the ha)ita.tion and distribution of th.:i fora.minifel'!ll ie for geofogists; since, of all cl.asses of the animal kingdom none ha.& contributed 80 la.rge a share to the fottnation of rocke, at least in the cretaceous 8.lld tertiary formations. и и
c c и
c ии

-#

..

..

..

иии~и

...

и

I have en.mined tho four apeeimons of bGttom obtained by Lieutenant ~.I J. N. ~in his explor&tions of the Gulf Streи lhirhlg tho pa.at summer, and .sul>join a desorip'IJon of their consti;mint parts. . .' s_rci-n No. 1, Position 5, Section VI, depth from 300 to 400 fathoms; la.t. 310 32', long. 780' Jfl, consists in a. small angular piece of dark-colored at.one. и Specimm No. 2, Section VI, Position 4, depth 600 fa.thorns, lat. 31░ 32', long. 78░ 20', consists in foraminiferre and small shells, md in fragments of shella and corals. Too fQraminiferre are cltlelly larger specimens of a. kind of Rotalina, of a rough a.rul heavy appearance. The other kinda found among them' present also a. similar appearance. The fragme.nts of dells and eurals arewom and rounded. Among the shall11 a species of Coneholepa.s is abundant. и Spiecimen .No. 3, Section VI, position 6, depth .450 fiithollll!, lll.t. ::u 0 ..16'. 48"; long. 7i'P 16'. This specimen is on t.allow, &Dlfcouaisi:a only in a. few small for&111oomrre. и .. ~No. 4, Section VI, Poaitioa 9;depth 460 fatholil18, lat. :3()0 41' 0", long. 77░ 3' 30'', foraminiferre, small shells, mil~ -oonls, (Cyathophyllia,) a.rul fragments of dark stone, like gpecimen I. The foraminiferro .ba.ve the same appearanoo &M и~to the same species as thGIC found in. ,the deepeet soundings. obtained in the Gulf Stream by Lieutenant

T.

The oblf apooimen pre8tlnting anything peeqliar i11 Specimen No. 2. The appearanoo of the foraminiHi,ne, and the :rounded 'COllditiotr of the corals and fragment& of &hells, ece.m to indicMe an agitation of the water near .the bottom.

"','IL-Omen.
и

.

и

и Prof. A. :O. IA.Hx, х,. D.,

Yery ~tfttlly, your~ aenQt,

и L. F. POURTA.LES и

&>~--- U. {J. Catut StlrФg.

84*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 31.
Report ef Prefessor BenJamin Pierce, to the Superintentlent, on the determination
observations

ef tni>on culminations.

ef longituifesfrom.

CAMBRIDGE, October 17' 1853 .. Srn: I have the honor. t.oи present the following report on the determination of longitudes from inve1tiga.tions made и between the first of OetQoor of the last and of the preirent year. The ~ubjeet of research which has been hitherto submitted to me, is that of ascertaining a method of determining the longitudeи from observed transits of the moon, which shall not he involved in the great and inegular errors of the lunar ephemeris,, The usual process consists in a simple interpolation of observed transits at standard observatories. The objections tit ihis method are: lst. That many obeervations are lost because there are not the requisite corresponding observationa a.t:t.he .fixed observatories. 2d. That the method of differeneel!, by which the interpolation is effected, is liable to ip~odnee ~ts of a peculiar nature when it is applied ro sueh an irregular sequence 1111 the successive transits of the mwu. 3il. иThat the degree of accuracy Qf the interpolated result cannot be ascertained. и The obvious substitute fur thi~ process consists in the computation of a new ephemeris from an exact thoory. The great 'expense and labor of such an undertaking may not oo a sufficient objection to it in a w1irk in which ace11racy must be the paramount consideration. But the want of l!llY lunar theory which has boon proved capable of standing the .test of ()bserи vation, is decisive; and it is hoped that the method which is now proposed will be found to meet the demands of иcience._ In order to decide upon the merits of this or any other proposed method, some reliable and practicable test 'lllUJ!t be'" devised to which it may be suhmitted. This is only to be found in observation from which the computed r(li11}t mnat not'F differ more than the amount wlii<lh may legitima.tely be regarded as the error of observation.и The probable error, ther&-и fore, of an obsenиation of this peeuliar kind, (that is, of a lunar transit,) must be aseertamP.d by a cornparioon of observations which shall be inatitnted quite independentiy of the de~ots of theory. Two observatories which II.Te nearly upon theи l'!lllle meridian, present the best opportunity for such an 0':1:11,roination. This bas been made, under my iiiretltion, by Mr, Edward G-Oodfellow, sub-assistant Ui the Coast Survey. '. lie ha.a compared 'Observa.tions of the transits of each 1iillf of the , moon, made upon the 11ame night,. at Greenwich, Cambridge, and Edinburgh, and he htts. ako compared the tra.nsite.ob:c:и served with tw<> different instrumentsи at Washington. The probable error of observation resulting from the thre13 hundred и and sixty-etiven (367) comparisons which have thus been made, is one-tenth of a socond of time. This interval may then be assumed as the standard probabla error of an ohs"7"1latian of a lunar transit, made at a fixed observatory, in which, however, itиis to be noted that the constant errors .to which the observations of the different observatories are liable, and which may arise from peculiariti011 of the instrumeiit or of the mode of observiilg, 11re mit included. The probable error of this standard determination of the probable error is only about iive-tholl8andths of a second. 'I'he errors of the moon's latitude are rarely of any sensible inJluenee upon the computed transits: It WM not tlfo~ht и proper, however, to neglect them; and the corrections of the inclination of ~he lunar orbit, and of the longitnde -Ofи ita node, have been derived for each year, by the method of least squares, from the observed errors of latitude given u{the Greenwicli Gbservatforui. The corresponding corrections of the moon's right ascensiqn have been thence 11.)>tai!led for the_ observed transits. ' . . . .. An attempt ";llB next ms?e tuиdetermin~ empirical corrections of tlle eleme_nts of the 1nnar motion, w~ieh s~ltl s,~,' all the ob.ervations of long1.tude made dunng a year; but the rel!nlt was unsatisfaer.ory, and a more apemal exacmnatmn of tht> obsersvations, conducted with the aid of.diagrams, seemed to indicate that the principal errors consisted of a oowstant error Of $J!OCh and a periodical error, of which the period WM half a lunation. For 08.(lh lumition of the year a special d~ruiiniltion Wllll then made by the method of least squarea-of empirical corrections po880l!J!ing these characters. The pr~hal,/le error.of observation, which sltonld be obtained by oompa:ring the longitudea of the ephemeris thua eorr~ted with the-0biieived longitndea, shonld not differ much from owe secoruf. IUld jille-tmths of arc, whieh oorrespob.ds to the standard of one-tenth of a lieoonll of ,time in the transit. The actual result for the yeиar 1847, was a probable error of om ncond aJtd fo~ty eigAt ~"8. This 110eme to be a sufficient test of the value of the proposed method of reduction of the' l11ll8l transits, or llt lellllt a eullieieut warr1mt for the continuance of the experiment. The Greenwicll observatioris only have .hitherro been used; but it i$ proposed hereafter to include those of Cambridge 11nd Em burgh in the detenilination of the longitudes of~ eastern cout of Am<!rlca, and ali!O those of W aabington in the determination of the longitudes of the Western coast. It Is also proposed to introduce correetiollll of th41.moon1s semi-diameter, corresponding to the corrections of the parallax, which the illuatmus astronomer Adams hae deduced from Ha.nsen111 exprBl!aion of thia parallax. All which is respootfully submitted by и и:и, и и

.. и

и

BENJAMIN PIERCE.

Prof. A. D, BAcn2, ~-'ent {[t&#~Statu cиa.t.~

APPENDIX No. 32.
и

Report .of Pr<>fe8$()1' W. 0. B~ on morm ~minatwm, o'IJvrved '1y him_duri:ngtliepa8t. ~r' by the "American met.hod," with remarkl 91" the performance ef tk,e "qmng g~." t]lБ im:ien,tion qf tlte Mem-s. Rood.
D1:~aиSm: ln the ~ -0f tl\e year My-five moon culminl\til>lll, 'With
fu!lTARD

U111V11:1l11rrr, cи~ N~J6, 1653. the J>l'OcJl61' ~.~и bfien ob~иed here, all of them b7 the "Amerill&ll methOO," With the exception -0f the two Iaat, wbon the crook -8 takeu down to llP)l)' a ll4JW ... ..-rangement of the electric circuit;и...~e have allJO observed twelve ~. of ...и llW'.и.иby the moon, abolit-0-w-W ofи tbflDl by two obeeneni, and ooeaaio110Hy by tb:ree. . , иии . . . . , I llave also tta1181nitted tc> Mr. Hein, Profe880r Pendletmi, and other o6letllиf the .Cout Survey, filtj'-three.ebeete of fin-met ~ona, clll~y for tlM> determi«tion of longi~d.~ 011 ~ 'Weltetn ..... и

OJI" THE UNITED STATES COA.ST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*85

The &ectu&cy of the aprlng-governor reeords has s~erally anif satisfactorily tested ln the oourf!tl of the year by comparison of a large number of pusages of the same star over the wires of our great equatorial, recorded JJimultanwusly by onr own apparatus, 11Dd one c>.onstructed by Wl on the Mme principle for the observatory at Haverford, in Pennsylviwia, иtae only difference being in the lengths of their respective p.indullllll8, one making a vibrati<:m in half a sooond, while the other required six-tenths of a second. The effect of this dilference of a tenth of a second in tl1e times of oscillation was to change the relative directions of the motions of the pendnln~ in regard to each other, as well as to th.at of the siderial clock, which opened and closed the electric circuit at I.he same moment for both cylinders, and to show, as evidently would be the c~ the sum of the errors, hli.d any such existed, in different parts of a single seeond, .on the supposition that the spring ,utt&eh.ment did not fully answer the intended purpose of equalizing the alternate motion imd arrest the eacapemeut while. the rotary motion of the fly was under the control of tbe pendulum. The experiment has ~hown, by the most scrupulous reading of the sheets when taken from the cylindel1! and compared together, that no discrepancies exceeding three hundred parts of a second could be detected as arising from a defect of this nature. For your &atisfaction on this point 1 enclose the readings of one hundred and ten observatiom, 11.!1 recorded by both cylinders on one circuit. These appear fully to corroborate Mr. 'Valker's report made to you on the subject in, April, 1851, as well as yolll' own impression at that time in re.gard to the accuracy of tho spring-governor. и ии Respectfully and truly yours,

been

W. C. BOND. Profel!SOr A. D.
BAOf!E,

SuperintendMt U.S. Coast SurD<Jy.

и

и

CVmparison of the 'records made of the same observatU:tn bg two sp1'irt.Б1 governors, differing one-tenth of a ии $_eeond in the time of vibration of their respective pen<fttlums. ( Tlw (lheets were read off by a proportional иscale) Transit!! of Spica observed by W. C. B., .~t Cambridge, August 26, 1853 и

..C~mbrldge inatru- Haverford inatrument.lCambridge inatru.1и Haverford inat~entTcnmbridge inst~~ ~verford instru. I
ment. ment.

I

ment.

и

ment.

~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~-1~~~~~~-1-~~~~-~~~- 1 ~~--~~~-r-~~--~-

1

H.

,._

!I.

'Jf

17 21. 33 .. 27.13 49. 30

s. s. . .M. 17 21.32+0.01
27.JO+ 49.27+ 55.0529.00 34.62 .03 .03 .05 .00

H.

m.

s.

14 21 57. 71
22 20. 36 26.00 49.59 55. 37 23 17. 74 23.32 50.43 .

fi

65. 00
18 29. 00
34.6~

.oo

...

55.60
19 01. 20

26.40 32.18
34.60
56..48

55.62- .02 01.18+ .02 26.40 .oo
32.18

56.06
24 22.56

34.57+
56.4902.14+

20 02.15 24.34 30.29

24-.32+

oo.25
OJ. 00

21

26.13 31.74
21 .52. 00

30.27 55.23+ 1.00. 26.13 31.79- .05.

+

.00 .03 .01 .01 .02 .02 .02 .00 . 00

20.3926. 0-0 49.59 55.4017.7523.3350.4456.06 2'.?. 56

51~74-0.~i3 Ij :!и ;;и
.03 и 00 I .00 .03 .01 .01

s.
23.50

51. 33
57.00

I

28 23.07
28.76
l'>2.3B 58.06 29 39.95 45.6:1 30 41.25 47.00 31 21.26 27.12

M. B. 11 и 27 23.48+0.02 51. 33 00 67. 00 00 23. 07 и 00 28.72+ .04 52. 40 - и O';?

ss.os+ .et
3!1. 90

.Ol

28.27
54.41 25 00. 14 26.07 31.70 26 18.90

.(lO и 00 28.30- .03 54.42- .OJ 00. 14 .oo 26.07 .oo

45.63 41.25

+ .00 .05
.oo .oo
.00

47.00 21.26

24.66
43. 15 49.00 . 27 17.74 27

21 52.00

.oo

I

18. 00 . 00 24.63+ .031 43.14 Ol : 49. 00 .00 l 17. 74; .oo

31.1:3-

.031
I

54.67
32 O!l.-37

27.12 00 54.63+ .04

oo.34+ .03

+.

23.68 29.31 53.57 59.39 33 13.90

23.61 .07 29.30+ .Ol 53. 57 ; fl()

+

f>!J.38+ .Ol 33 13. 88 62

+

The final result of the trllll is tbnb1. The two.~fl'4lg govemon,' and h, give records which do not differ by.a constaJ1t quantity~~ M 0-.001. 2. The p~b&bla difference or the two records, including the error of scale resdi.nK, ia = ▒ Oil.Of3 for a single observation and a single readiDg. . 3. As a part of this is to be attributeii to errors of 8-0al.e reading, the probable error of the record of a !!ingle observation on either of these qlind.efll must be less than

0-J~ =

0и.009.

Probable error of a Bingle observation read off from the sheet by a scale, and including error of res.ding oft; is
E = ▒ !Jl.Offi?.J hJcluding those &0urces of error to be Meribed pro~ly to the-niethod of ol>aening by elootro-magnetiam 4, l'rob&Me Фror of a 1'83ding of the record by an eye Nii111&te-

E =:▒::1)9.021 ии

86*
1

REPORT OF THE SUl"ERINTENDENT

CompariS<mS continiud.
Cambridge Haverford instru- Cambridge instrument. ment. instrument. IJ.. m. s. M. 8. s. H. 14 33 19.49 33 J9. 48+ 0. 01 14 34 05.90 5.9"J- . 03 11.57- .02 11.55 43...34 43.32+ и 0-2 40.12 49.12 .w 10.81- . 01 35 10.~ . 16.46' l'.45+ . 01 .. 00- 02. SC}i 12. 81- . 01 r-,и 8.43 8.41+ .02 42.64 42.62+ и 0-2 48.36 48.39- . 03 38 44.93 44.90+ .03 и'50. 43- . 02 50.41 39 08.95 8.96- . 01 14.66 14.62+ .04 42,86- .04 42.82 48.56 48.57- .01 40 16.26 16. 21- .01 22. 21 Z2. 23- .02 1 51. 16 51. 18- .02 I 56.97 57. 00- .O'J 41 28. 00 и28. 00 .oo 33.53 33. 53 и oo I 42 04. 60 l 4.57 + ,()3' 10.131 10.12+ .Cl!

I

I

Haverford Instr~- иcambridge ment. instrument.

Haverford inи strurnent.

I 42 37.22
m. s.

42.90
66 09.00 11. 8(1

M. s. 42 37.22 42.90 56 00. 00
ll.8314. 76+ 17.46+ 19.00 21.8525.41+ 64.28+ 55.00 59.00 6.00 10.0017.29+ 18.1919.00 19.66+ 37.52+ 40.03и42.10 44.17+ 45.72+ 4f:!.22+ 49.23

14.ao
17.~4

19.00 21. 80 25;42 5t.30

55.00
и 59. 00 57 06.HO 9.95 17.30 ; 18.18 i 19. 19. 7Q 37.54 40.00 I 42.10 44.19 45.73 48.23 ! 49.231

H. m. s. s. s. .OQ 14 56 50. uo 156 50. 00 - 0. 00 .oo 51. 10 51. 10 . 00 .oo 51.56 51.58- .02 .03 .04 .., ____ .......... .......... ................... The mean of 113 scale readings gives, for . 02 . 00 the dilfereuce of ab.05 solute time of the .01 two records made .02 b;t" and k, & - A= . 00 +0.0009▒0и.00)2.

s.

I IM.

"

и

и-

-

и

. 00 .05 ,01 .01

.oo

.

I

I

0511

.oo
oи~ ~

.

.1l4

i
I

I

.03 .00 .02 .01 .01 .00

I

APPENDIX No. 33.
llep,,rt Qf I>r. B. A. Gould, jr , to the Superintendent, upon the result,, cf his observ,1timti in die.: determination cf the difference of longitude, by telegraph, between Seaton Station, W ashingt<m; и and C!tarlcston, Sowh Carelina.
C.i.MBRlDGE, &ptembe'f' 30, 1853. DE.ur. Sm: I have the honor to submit a report upon the progreSB of the astronomical and telegraphic opera.tions intrusted to me since my cntrn.uce upon the service of tl1e Ooa&t Survey, on the first <lf December last. A determination of the difference of longitude between_ Charleswn, S. C., and the .Seaton Stati()n in W ll.Shington, was first to be made, andи 'his detennination subsequently used as one of a series of similar telegraphic longitude connexions ~-hich should ultimately give the longitude of the cities of Mobile 11Dd New Orle1111s with the highest precision attainable. F9rthis purp<>se, I remained in 'Vashington sufficiently long to make at the Seatou Station, in connexion with Mr. Pl)ltiiales, a somewhat extended series of observations for the measurement of the dtifel'enee of our personal equations; and went thence to Charleston, whence I was f,() exchange transits of stars with Mr ..Ponrtales. Professor Lewis R. Gibbes courteously placed the observatory in his garden at the disposal of the Coast Su1'Vey, and roch changes were made as were found IieeeM&l'f for tb.e erection of C. S. tre:osit instrument No. 8. and of the Kessels clock, formerly at the Seaton Station, and whieh, l!iuoo th!l fire at that station, had been rentted by Mr; Saxton. The S11."Xtb1L regiater, aa. well as the ordintl.Ty Horse register, were set up, and 11 battery of forty Grove's en.pt1 prepared. A battery' of equal J>Qw.ir"Wlls used at tlie. Sea.ton Staoon, and no di!li-Oulty was anticipated in communicating dinctly with Mr. Ponrt.aleg, especiallf as the late Proressor Walker ha.d succeeded. on :E'ebruary 5, 1850, in commuo~g directly from Washington to Cha.rleston, and exchanging ~me observations at that time. . и ... и From the ruiddlo of Dooember until the middle of February I remained in Charleston, actively engag« in the pl"OB6CUи tion of this undertaking, observing on every fair night circumpolar stars with reversals, and both ,;enith and equat()rial stars, ehronographically, for the determination of time anQ. tnstrwnental corrections, and, with t}te usiatanee of )Ir, W. R. Lane, keeping up the reduction of these ob&el'VMions 1111 feat aB they were made. ThrougllO,ut thill perirul, roeseages oonooming tile ~ of the weather were exehanged :with :Mr, Pourtales every evening; 11114 when'&ver the ay wa.s unelouded &t _both stations, tlrn batteries were set up, and the great.er part of the night11peut ia &ttempta by 11&eh of us to obtain direct oommu.oication with the other, exeeptiilgoa those nightt when preseure of b1uine&1 pr6v~ the Telegraph Company from aft'ordil'.ig '118 the nae of the line. This pfeasure of business BOJDetimea follo'l'l'.ed -~ arrmd of a tranntla.ntic stel!.lller; but oo all other ocewilons the nse of the telegraplilt1 line was gr&tuitoualy all'otded by tlle liberality_ and . public 11pirit of Ela_m Alexander, Esq., president of the Washington and New Orleans Telegraph Company. We were aided by the operaoois in WMhingtwl, Petersburg, Raleigh, &nd Columbia. those &t WAllhingtonиana Charle6ton beillg il1 attendance llt the aatl'oDomieal statioas. . . After a aeries of the _-i; vii.Tied experi.meuu tlpoll ihe strength, arrangernen:~. li.n4 pofiltio11 .of.the batterie11 which 'll'OUld .-rord the greatest eftlmeney, Wt! werEtal; l11&t reluctantly foreed to th.eeollriluai.oo tbtt tho. OU114ition of the telegraph win!S .a, post& -waa meh that 11.kect telegraphic conununica~n along an. Ullbrokea oiM!it between the t.wo titatklm wu a ph]1ieal impealbiliq. . . ии .и и и и

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853,

*87

By your instructions, t aent 11n experleneed man along the line between Charleston and Columbia, with proper implements and assistants, to replace insulate.rs, &c., upon, the poet<1, and to N'plaee the wire where it had bPen lifted out of the insulators by storms; a work w~ch I have reason t-0 believe wa. aecornplid1ed with cousiderable th() roughness. I had at the time the honor Ф> report the extent of repairs thus made. The faeility of eommunieation between Charleston and Columbia was much augmentedи; but neitber tl;ien nor at ╗.ny other time was I able to receive a single signal from иwashington, nor Mr. Pourtales one from Charleston. So imperfect, iudeed, was the connexion, that on no occasion was tho Charleston, and only once the Seaton Station, able to communicate With the telegraph office at R.aleigh. Although tho operators at the intermediate stations were men of experience and skill, amriill of thew warmly interested in the success of t.he .ent1trpriee, it appeared desirable to omit no moans of guarding against any accidental error in the connexion of the wires for Coast Survey work; and the more, inasmuch as the Bulkley "rept>aterg" used on this line are very complicated in their arrangement, rn that an error of this kind, wbilo it miglit easily be committed, might a!BO easily escape detectivn. For this purpose I visited, by your direction, the offi.ceи Фt Raleigh nnd at Pewrsburg, and oonvinced myself, by careful . . examination, that all the connexions had been corrt>ctly made. It thus became necessary to estahlish an intermediate station; and one was accordinglr erected at Raleigh, N. C., in the grounds of the State-house, permission having been grant,ed by Hon. David S. Reid, governor of the State. During my charge of the station in Charleston, one hundred and one observations were made for time andinstrumentill adjustment, and the instrumental peculiarities fully determined. While the astronomical station at Raleigh was in process of erection, I arranged a series of experiiхents in continuation of the re~earches of the late Mr. Walker upon the velocity of transmission rrf the electro-telegraphic signиls, with a view to the still more precise determination of this velocity, of its modifying influence&.t and the amount of their effect, ruid especially to the settlement, if possible, of se>cral important theoretical points coucerning the mode and medium of thciL" transmission. By permission of Wm. M. Swain, Esq., president, and Wm. P. Westervelt, Esq., superintendent, of the Magnetic Tdeиgr.aph Company, four wires of this company, between Washingt-0n iind Ne\\и York, were placed at the dispoeal of the Coast Sqrvey, and these were so connected at the termini aи to form oхe .continuous Jine, which was still further extended t-Owards the south by connectini.; it with the wire of the Washington :md New Orleans Telt>graph Company as far as Petersburg, Va. :Experiments were made np<1n these wires on the nights of March 18 and 2'2, Dr. иwolcott Gibbs volunteering his assistи !llJOO in New York, and Professor John F. Frazer in Philadelphia. The reduction of these results is not fully completed, иand willиbe made the subject of a special report. и и On the ;ld of April I arrived again in Raleigh, and took charge of the station, thm nearly completed, setting up C. S. transit instrument No. 3, and zenith telescope No. I. I was assi;ted here, a;; in Charleston, by Mr. Lane, who rendered valuable service in recording, reading, and re.duciug obsen-ations. As soon as the requisite observations for proper adjustment of the instruments were complewd, I satillfied myself, by experiment. that direct communication both with Washingt-0n and Charleston was possible, and tl1en commenced a daily иex-change of weather-message-s with Mr. Pourtales in Wa~hington, and with Professor Gibbes, who assumed the charge of и111e station in Charleston; and was thus enabled, whenever the weather at Raleigh was farnrable and the business of the line did not pre-vent, to avail myself of a clear sky chher Washington or at Charleston. None but those who have been personally engaged in the telegraphic determination nf differences of longitude between diatll.Dt stations, can appreciate the numerous and singularly annoying obstacles of every kind, against which 'it is necessary tooontend, manr-of them of a character which would by no means htne been anticipated. lam inclined to belie>e that Jn ew.11 where, owing to insnfficiency of insulation, or!' bad connexions" in the circuit, direct tlt>grapbic commuuication between distant stations becomes difficult, great ad>antage might be derived from carrying out your suggestion, that th6 11crength of the transmitted current would be materially increased by 11n incre11Se in the size of the bnttery-elt>ments, and that the moat efficient battery would be one not much exceeding in the number of its elements that which would ~uflice on a thoroughly insulated and well-c,-onueeted line, but in which the extent of generating surface is largely multiplied. 'l'he seriee of observations was completed OR the 14th of May, at whie.h time eighty-four transits of stars had been exchll.llged with We.ahingtoo on four nights; fifty-nine exchanged with Charleston on four nights; sixty-fiиe circumpolar stars with reversal, and one hundred and nineteen zenith and equatorial stars obser-ved for instrument;il eorrootions, besides the neoea11ary observations for determining the instrumental constants. These observations are netw in course ot reduction. Before passrng from this subject, I would avail myself of the opp9rtunity to e:rpress my sense of the efficient aid rendered by Messrs. Colton, Dowell, Cameron, Sandford, Lumsden, and DeGrove, operatol'l! inи charge of the cAmnexioue (or longitude work at their respecti-ve offices. To Mr. L. W. ' aldwell, chief operator at the Charleaton office, I feel esptieilllly indebted, not merely fur his uniform oourtesy and 2eal, but for aid and support, without which the ca:.npaign weuld probably .. have ooen much JesД successful, and certainly much more protracted. Observation~ were also made at Raleigh for d11tennining the latitude of the station, the position of which with reference to tbe State-b.ouse was carefully determined. Fifteen pairs of stars were observed with zenith telescope No. l, and eigbtyи ~и _ и . eight obseTV1;1tioI111 made. . On retGmiilg,North, I again devoted two evenings to obser.ation with Mr. Pourtales. at the :Sleat-On Station in Washington, to obt:Mn our personal difference in registering transits. The comparison with Professor Gib bes, in Chlll"lesoon, wa11 effecte.d indirectly through ~e friendly services of Mr; Boutell,e; who kindly relieved me from the necessity of visiting Charleston for the purp.ose, by observing twenty stars with Profo11l!Or .Gil)bea in Charleston on the eve of bis departure from that city, 1111d again with me in Cambridge immediately after his mival from Charleston direct. A number of weeks <Ji the summer ha-ve been devoted t.o a thorotigh examination and discussion of the results of tho Coast Survey observstiOU8 for the determination of penumal equations. The e:xamin&tion ud dismWlion has only been ootnpleted for the ehronographic observat;i(ius, upon which I hope soon to be able to present 11 special report. Some of -the ehief results were orally C(}mmunieated to the American Assochition for the .A.dvllJleement of Science at its reeent l!le(jti.ng iil Cleveland. The observationw were erltically scrutinized, and the greater parts of them re-read. They a1!0rd; also, an excellent mellllll of investigating the degree of prooisiou attainable by the American method of oboorvation, 1111d the comparative reliability of the reoorda upon t.be 'ieVenl .kinds of recording apparatus uиed. While in Ohio, in attendnnce upon the meeting of the J..mericllll Association "fur the Advancement of Science,. I viel:ted CID.clnnati, .by your direction, to examine the appare.tus of Professor 0. M. Mitchell, for recording transits of ata.ra. I have already verblllly reported to yoa the rewlts of tbis examination of nn apparattl8 which hae so desei.-vediy added to the ret;mt.ation of iu ~en~ inventor, and that his wef!иk.liown -~tJ: ia liti.ll employw in endeavors i(J iucre&RI still further the precliion and eonvemenee of the apparatua, which alreailji:.pl'Om1$68 w much. и и I~ la a 1()-llnie of regret thli.i none of the rechwti.OJts <>f ih6 year' a work are 8Ulliciently advllDOOd to enable me to COll'.llllllUkllkte ~ reaulta r but the great amount of labor attendhl,g tbetn, augmooted, probably, by my {)Wll waat of prevklWI experience in the practical e.xeeution of such reductiona UPQD a large Jleale, renders it 1mponible.

a'

88*

REPORT OF THE ~.UPERINTENDENT

It hall boon my privilege to be associated during the greater part of the cam;algn with Mr. POti:rt;ales, assistant ~charge of the Sen.ton Station, and to his experience, unwearying efforts, and friendly aid, I have been largely indebted since my first connexion with the longitude operations. и I hne the honor to remain, with great respeet, very faithfully, yours, ':.: B. A. GOULD, J1t. Professor A. D. BAoHE,

Superitslende?U Utiited States Coaat &irtJey.

APPENDIX~░,и 34.

Report ef George P. Bond, &q., to tlte Superintendent of the Coast Survey, on the computations of the .chTO'Jf.()'1TU;ter expedilions for determi1iing the dijfereiu:e ef longitude between Oawhridge and

.. Liverpool,.
.
CAMBRIDGE; MAss., &ptemher 3(1, 1853. D1<An Sra: In compli11Uce with the request oontaiued in;our letter of the 2d instant, I communicate the following sum. mary of my reports of April and Au!!'hst Inst, on the computation of the results of the chronometric expeditions. of 1849, IB:;O, and 1851, between Cambridg~ and Liverpool. The transit observations for the determination of the local time, both at Cambridge and Liverpool, had already. been reduced in the ordinary course of work at each ob11ervatory; but to insure confidence in this element, and especially to.и guard against any small constant error at either station, they have been. re-computed with all possible care, and wit.h.. express reference-to the object to which they were to be applied. In the reduction of the Cambridge observations, the и first etep was to ll!leertaiu the position of the mid-wire in the l!ystem of seven wires used in the observations, takmg into Mconat the t-lfect of temperature in changing.the mutual relation of the wires, and any gradual changes which may pave. takeu place in the interval between July, 1849, and January, 1852. For this purpose sixty transits of Polaris were,n~ и. An examination of the probable error of observing the p1188Rge of a stn.r over a single wire WM made at the same time, from which the follow~ values were obt!l.ined: ,

Declination of !tar.
10░ 23' E=▒0.086и

12" 42'
38░ 39'
600 03' 51░ 3!Y 620 33'

.088 .105
.116 .118 .137 .137 1.200

74░ 46' 810 31'

▒

The values of 11 revolution of the micrometer screw were иdetermined by pas1111ges of Polaris over whole and ha.lf revolutions.. Observation;и for the -ralue of the divisions of the level were twice made during the continuance of the expeditions, and give for one division in seoonds of are, d =l". 00 0'1и 0037, (b - 120): b being the length of the bubble in divisions of the wale, d will include the proper corrections for temperature. The le-rel error of the Cambridge transit hM a mean value through the year of b = o, very nearly, and the small variations from this mean follow, with tolerable regularity, a uniform law of annual increase and decrease. The probable error of a single division of the level scale is ▒ IY". 036. That of an ordinary determination of the inclination of the axis is▒ Oи. 005; including errors of figure ofthE) pivots, it is ▒ Oи. OU. The diameters of thff pivots are sensibly equal; that on the illuminated side being leaat by ()I. 003 ▒ D". 004, by aets of levelling in reversed positions of the axie. The probable deviation of the curve described by the axis of colliи mation of tl:ie instrument from a great circle, as far as the indication of the level can be taken as a test, isIllumination east ▒ Os. 009. lllmninati<>n west▒ 0. 011.

+

ReverB'li!..,on distant marks e<>mbined with ata.r tran8ita, give for the effect of irregula.rities of the pivots upon the colliи matio:>n and azimuth ernu:a at the north and south horizon Je Oи. 010 ▒ es. 012, and Ja =Oи. 033 ▒ Oи. 014. The apparent places Gftbe stan< used fo:r cl-0ek and instrumental errllrs have been derived from a catalogn<ii baaed upon tliat of the " Expe_d!tiOil'Chron~~etrique" and the " Po~:iones Meil!re" of ~truve, and upon the "Green'lrieb .Tw'elve Year C11talog11e." Additional authont1es were employed for nme of the ctrcumpolar stars. The probable error i!fthe right aacensions of the new catalogue does not surpass 00 for stare south of a declination of 60". и The azimuth and collimation errors were derlved.froan between live and six hundred equations of eondition fol'llWled star truaita, ell.Ch of which was fint referred to a oommon standard of eX11.Ctness depending OJI the probable errors of observation, and of the tabular places of the stars, the group being combined by least squt1re<1. 'l')ilille were anitei Witb. one hundred and eleven eqUAtions <>fforded by observation of the metidian marka, tllld the solutionofthewho1e ga.n the adopted values of the azimuth and oe>Hima.tion. The following table e:xhiMts the agregate of the prt>babffi ei:rors of the azimuth and collimation predicted from the observations of di!tant t.errestria.l marks, for the intervals given from the nearest date of obllervMion. They include errors of meMuring the angular distan~ from the 11U1rk to the midи'll'ire. t.lle probable instability of the il18tn11neut during the interval, and other BOorOOB of 1U10tlrtlt.inty.

=

▒ ░"и

Interval 0, 0 dB.ye. '" O._ 1 '" 1. 0

и=
"

▒

Ot. 006
. 012

Interval 6. 0 ilays. ~' 8. 0 "
10. 0

и =▒08.040 .041

2 .. 0 " 3.0.. 4;0

и 026 .032

12.0

,

= ▒

.03.5
0.037

..

16.0
~;o

.042 .042 .043 1=▒0.043

01" THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*89

A comparison of all the observations upon the terrestrial marks, shows that the variationи of lateral refraction, in the
present inotance, liav<i a powerful dt<,ct of less than Oи.OJ for all intervals less than an hour.

The personal equations of

ll1P

observers at Cambriilge and Liverpool liave been derived from thirty-eight sets of com-

parisous of twenty vasiиWJ!~S eaeh. A copy of the original dttta employed for the determination of clock errors at Liverpool. has l>Nn furni,hed hy Mr. Hannup for both expeditious. Th'Cse have berиn snbmilted to a thnrough examination, follo\\iug thf' rnnw order as was pursued with the Cambridge ohservatio1rn. Thie ha" been done fur the reason already i:ivcn f.,r rep<'ating tbt' r<'<luf'tion of the latter, to insure entire confidence in the important 11lrment of the focal t.ime. at each station, altlwn!!h. in fact, nltera-

tions in essential po,rticularи have, for the most part, been rendered uuneceииary by the care t11ken int he first reduction. The position of the mi<l-\lire of the Liveqwol transit, relatively to иrbc mean of the seven, has bl'en fou11d mww fr(lm one hundred and twem.y comple1e tranoits, th" result agreeing perfectly with that employe<l by Mr. Hartnup. The probable errors of au obsenиNl tmnsit have bPen dedu(иed and employed, together with those of the tabular l"i~ht ascensions. in asиiguing the rel11tive weiglit.s of clrtck errorи by stars in different declinations. The inclination of the axis of the tramit bas always been a"eertained at least ouee for eac.h set of star observationи, and freq1wntly tw1> or three timeи~ Th<' prnbable errnr of a single detPrminatinn of this eleme11t, assumed to indicllte the Rtatcи of the insrrument. witbin four hours of tlic time of observation, is ▒0'.04~. The ordinary values assigned for the inclination of the axis have a probable error of▒ 0 8 .0:l. The figure of the pi~ots has been examined by means of the level by Mr_ Hartnnp; tlw correction for in<;quality of di<tmeters is + oи.0()() illumiiu.itiuu west, to refer the level readings to the mean и~is. The urn of the instrument ahont equally in each position of the axis has a tendency to eliminate irregularities of figures in the pi..-ots: h1 which, however, nu indication has been found in comparing resultи of transits of Rtars at different altitudes. The collimation errt>r preиeped a nearly conиtaut value during l:wth expeditions, never exceeding the amount of 0 3 .03. In deducing auew tbe clock errors, the right a.censions have been taken from the catalogue before referreиl to, and all the results have boon combineil w-ith r<иgard to their probable errorn_ A special comparison wn.s made for the azimuth an,l dock errors, by comparing the tran8its of stars nortt1 and south of the zenith. lnRtan1~es of diиcr,.,rancies, t1XиW<>1iing rht> pmhnbll' l'rrors of the determination", have always been re-examin(иd. The probable errors of the final n"ultи for clock errors, bvth at Liverpool and Cambridge, do nor usually exceed ▒0и.05 for those dateи on which star transits oeeur. Having thus obtained the local times at eaeh station for the particular eloeks and chnmomerers used for observing star trausito, the uext ~tep has been to transfer these results to all the mhere used on the expediti<,ns: in doing whil'h two sources of error ha-re been cnnsidered, beиides those <lue to errors of ubser...-ations in the traneii s. ht, errnrs in making the comparisons <иf each chronometer with the standard clock; :.!d, irrcgulf1rities in the rate oft11e stanilurd clock or chronometers, in the usua.lly short interval bmween the star obs<>.rvatious imd the enmparisons. The хrobahle am'1uut of thf'иe errors haи b~en made a special suhject ofioveиti~ution for the d"cks and for each of the comparing chrou"mt'tcrs. United 'l'rith the errors of thA transit observations, they indicate, for the probable errors of the valueи assignPd for the errors on mean solar time of each of tl1e expe<lithm chronometerR, an limount not ordinarily excee<ling ▒ oи.1i0, The met.hod of ascertaining th.,se errors has been to determine experimentally for each chronometer, from a larl(e number of compariHons, the diffenmce between ics true error 11.lld its error predicted for the 8ame epoeh from a previous k1wwledge uf itи rate. This. indeed, seems to be the only pruper method of fixing on the individual peculiarities of each chronometer. The same principle has l>ern made use of by Sn-urn in the "Expedition Chronornetl'ique." Of the remainder of the work, the reductions from sidereal to mean solar time are completed for hotb stations; and tbe reductions for the dirert and coinddenee comparirnns will Ii<' mor" than half finished by the first of October. .A. conclu11ion of the cowputat.lous way be auticipat.ed by the first of January. Respectfully and truly yours,

Dr. A. D. B..i.ca11:,

,')upcrintend~nt

GEO. P. BOND.
U. S. Coast Survey .

и

APPENDIX No. 35.

Letter from John Hcwston, Jr., Esq.и to the Superintendent oj the Coa$t S1trvei;, reporting the results q/ analyses eftwo speci.mens of deposite taken from the boiler ef the Coast Sur:,cy steamer Hetzel_
PmLrnELPHIA.,

April 30, 1853.

DEAR SIR: The following are the results of tbe analyses of the two specimens of deposite taken from the bci.ler of the

steamer Hetzel. и The principal mass of the incrustations consists of a fibrous crystalline substance, which the anylysili shows to be anhydrous sulphate of liwe, intemtratified with a black. mass of ~otie oxide of iron, which a powerful micro~cope shows to be amorphous. The fiat scale conti.ins but a single fine streak of black, which was compleooly removed from the portion analyzed, and the whitish portion alone, subjected t-0 analysis, gave the result below stat ed. The irregnl11r scale contaJned a much larger proportion of black irregularly stratified; and in order to obtain an average of it, slices were sawed from it at right-angles to the stratifieatiou, and roughly crushed. The black portion wu.s then removed, as completely as po11sible, by a magnet. The remaining Jigbtиcolured portion, contllining a ~mall quantity of black that could not be removed by the magnet, was subjected t.o analyrlis, and gave the result as below stated. . .By the magnet tbe irregular scale was found to consist of 17.5 per cent. black portion; 8t_5 per cer.t. light portion. Under the microse~pe the bl&ck streak consists of white and blwk particles, irregularly distributed, the black predominating. A very pure piece of black, by a.nalysis, was foood t& eontain 92 per oent. maguelfo ox:itle of iron; 7 per cent. of lime, with a trace of magnesia, и The portion here analyzed was leBll th&n 0.5 grain, eouseqneatly the per-centage ct\llllot be regarded aa abaolutely

oorroot.

90*.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

.Analysis

ef incrustations.
Flat scale.

I

Irregular scale.
34.692 4.190 53. 219 3.064 J.091

Lime и.иииииииии.ииииииииииииии.
l'rfal(Ileиia .иииииииииииииииии.ииии. Sulphuric acid ииииии.ииииии.иииии

30.116
13. 625 43. 931 7. 796 1. 379 l.111 0.1!50 ]. 675 9!l.883

'Vater ......................... . Chloride of sotlium............... . Magnetic oxitle ofiron ...ии...и... Alumina .иииии..иии..ииииииииии. Silica .и.и.иии.ии.ииииииииииии..и

2.078 0.400 0.400
99.134

No fiuorine could be detected in either assay.

Or, computed in the most

pro~able

manner in which the ingredients are combined, the analyses are: Flat scale. Irregular scale.

Sulphate of lime ...иииии ииииииииии Sulphate of magnesia..ии.иии. -- иии : Hydrate of magnesii:i и.ииииии.ии.ии i Hygroscopic water .ииииииии.иииии 1 Chloride ohodium..иииии.ииииииии : Magnetic oxide of iron ииииии.ииии и Alumina и.иии.ии.и.иииииииииииии Silex .иииииииииии.ииииииииииииии ,
1'

I

I

73. 139 ~ l. 362 19.1'198 1.869 J. 379 J. I II~ 0.250 l. 675 99.883

~ 2. ro2
84. 252

5.489
3. 42'i

'~~---~~-1-~~~~~~

~ o.

1.091 2. 078 400

0.400

99.134

J<'rom the very email quantity of alumina, and the large pmportion of iron, and from the latter being in the state of m112netic oxide, it is evident that the iron in the assay arises from the oxidation of the h<>iler. From inspectfon of the layers of the irregu!H.r piece, it would seem as if th{I crust had been formed from below as well 11s from above. The iron has probably been oxidized, forming a scale of rust, which has been displaced by water penetrating beneath it and the incrustation th"re deposited. The analyses of the two pieces of scale sl1row a mnиt rPmarkable difference in the relative amounts of lime and magnesia-the amount of lime differing only a few per cent., whilst the magnesia is more than three times as great in one Ill! in the other. Thie is very unaccountable, supposing the deposites to come from the Sldhe boiler, and consequently from the aame wa1 er. By ex11min11tion of the results of the two analyses, the e1fect of high hr,at, in the prescnrAJ of wate~, on sulphate of magnesia, is clearly shown. In the flat sCHle we find 13.625 magnesia, which would be equivalent to 40.875 sulphate of magnewia, assuming it all to have exiswd hi that state, and there is only t.:~62, or one-thirtieth of the whole, left as sulphate; and that twenty-nine thiitietbs have been decomposed and c.-.nverted into hydrate. In the irregular scale the total magneaia is 4.19, equivalent to 12.57 sulphate. The amount of ~ulphate left in the scale is 5.489, or very nearly five-elevenths of the whole, and only six-elevenths baa been decomposed. In the flat seale, then, which "came from off the arches above the ful"l!llce, was nearest the fire," and consequently exи posed to a greater heat, \\'e have nearly the whole of the sulphate. of magnesia decomposed lllld conиerted into hydrate, . wbilst in the irregular scale, which "come from the bottom of the upper flues," and where the heat was not so iotenMi, we"' find that 11nly about one-half of the sulphate of magnesia has been decomposed. The cliloride of sodium iи evidently owi11g to a small quantity of the sea-water that has adhered to the scale. Tho earthy matter&--l!ilica, iron, and alumina-:-may be regarded as sedimentary matter from muddy water. Most respectfully and truly youra, JOHN HEWSTON', Ja.
Prof. A. D. B.t.cHE,

Superimmdeat U..itm Stotts Coast Su"'6J.

APPEND IX No. 36.
Notes
O'JI..

litkograpky and lithographic transfen; by Lie1ltenant E. B. Hunt, Corr assistant in the Coa.~t Survey.

ef &gineen,
c

Lithography owt1t1 m>t only its existence, but its possibility, to the fact that sever&l quarries in "1e vicinity <lf Munich fnnrlsh slabs of a limestone nniform in texture, appa.rently compact, ye-t really baviug a l!Omewhat open grain. 'fhou,ih other localities fumkh stoues whieh could be used, the real commerce of lithttgrsph\lrlabs ie limited "to the Bavarian

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*91

quarries, especially Pappenheim 11.Dd Solnhofen. These furnish stones of ordinary sizes quite cheaply, so that new quarries, which are from time to time announced, must encounter a low market at the start, unless they are a.hie to furnish, in all the requisite perfection, the laqi;est sizes used. The qualities of a good st-0ne are bomogeneons~ess, with freedom from veins, spooks, and 6.aws; a yellowish-white or a pearly-gray color which is uniform; "hard, fine, uniform grain; .. concboidal fracture, with. a good degree of strength, and a capacity for mcei>ing good grained or polished surfaces, and of lttling uniformly acted 011 by acids. The theory of lithography is briefly this: A grained or polished surface of liihographic etone, ha.ving a porous structure, absorbs and firmly retains both water and oil, or inks made with oils or fats. Hence, if partd of the st-One smface are covered with a drawing in oil or fat, the remaining surface may be Wl'tted without wetting the inked parts, and then if ink be rolled over the stone, it will be turned from the wet parts, and will adhere ou the inked parts. Thus any drawinz made with fat ink on the stone can have its lines duly charged with ink for printing, wbile all the rest of the stone e.ominues clear. Impression after impression can thus he taken off by wetting and inkinfll'the stone after each printing. Ill this process the stone is merely the solid support for the ink and water to adhere w. and the whole manipulation has fur its object. to ink the ink-lines, and them only. If the st-0ne is used when it is too dry, the whole 1mrface takes the ink and prints, thus totally ruining the drawing. The lithographic press consists essentially of a frame, on which the bed for the st<:ine is иo sustained as to run freely on rollers, being thus drawn by a crank movement under a sharp-edged wonde11 l!craper. The tympan, stretched on an iron frame, is a broad leather cover, which folds down upon and protects the stone and paper by directly receiving the wear of the scraper. By a lever movement the scraper is lifted off, when the stone returns to its place after pulling the impreиsion. There are three distinct methods of drawing on stone-first with a crayon, second with a pen or brush, and third with the dry point or graver. Crayon drawings are made on graine<l surfaces, ground with sand, but not polished, the quality CJf the graining requiring to be nicely adapted to the intended subject. The drawing crayons are <'.Ompmmded of some fat basis, usually mutton-tallow and white wax, and of some coloring material, usunlly lampblack, with some a.dditional ingredients to regulate its consistency. In executing drawings, great care is requisite thoroughly to J<Utird the stonP from crayon dust, finger-marks, saliva, &c., which will be found to print. In peu or brueh dra\\;ug. a liquid ink is used inste.ad of the crnyon aad in a similar manner, the same precaution being observed to protect the stone. Tbe stones in thesa caиeи are carefully polished. Th<" finer the gr>1ining or polish, Uie more delicate may the di-awing be made. The dry point or graver cannot pro.lime lhe tineиt <'1111<и of elfect.и, for lines cut. in the stone Jack the clear, delicate quality which they posиess in steel or copper; y"t, whh suftlcient skill, care, and hthur, water-lining, luwhures, outlines, &c., can be cut with such delicacy and character as to render Wt'll extremely fine subjects. Printinii; in colors involves the use of two or morf-1 stmws, witl1 partial draw;ngs on each stone, their number dep<>nding on the number of inks to be printed. Each slab has a drawing, covering just the part"s inteniled to re<Jeive t.l1e particular colored ink u~ed in printing from that stone. Several of the final colors are nsually produced by the blending of the overlaying tints. The great difficulty in color printing for fine suhjects is, in securing a l'Orrect regiиtf>r or overlaying of the successive oolor impressions. If the paper undergoes any sensible change of dimension during these printings. or if there be any lack of care in placing the sheet on the succeиsive stones, a false superposition res11lts, and hence confusion of outline and incorrect coloring. In large sheets these difficulties are much increased. In all these procesRes, except that of dry-point engraving, the st-0ne, when the drawing- on it is complete, is subjecteиl to the acti.m of a dilute aeid, which, acting only on the parts of the face not coated "ith ink, lea>@R the inked or printing parts in slight relief, the etching being stopped in time to prevent the relief puts from being eaten nway sen;;ibly on their sides. This proct>ss is obviou~Jy a very critical one, for while its mismangement totally ruins the drawing, its success makes the printi11g strong and clear. Its utility lies chiefly in its removing all dnstfrom the stone, aud in. its giving relief, with consequent clearness of impression, to the drawing_ I come now t-0 those lithognrphic methods in which the drawing is not executed on stone, but. is ma.de on pn per, иteel, or copper, and is thence transferred mechanically and bodily on to the stone. The procesи of transfer from an engrnved stone on to another polished stone, already alluded to, invol'l'es no, such important peculiarities as to demand special mention here, it being based, indeed, 011 the same principles as all other transfer pm<'esses_ The term transfer is applied to etone on wh-Ose polished face the ink from an original wrii;ing or drawing. or from an impression on paper, bus been so thrown down Rf! to admit of printing in the same manner a.s a drawing first made on stone, thus indefinitely reproducing an original. By this means an 1mlimited 11umber of copies can be procured from an engraved plate without sensible wear in the engraving. If the engraved surface be small, several transfers may be put on one stone, so as to print several on a sheet, and several such stoneil can be prepared for printing in a short time, thus presenting peculiar facility for m11!tiplying copies rapidly. Parts from different plates, borders, letter-press notes, views, &c., can be separately printed anti pnt into new combinations during the transfer process, so as to mllke almost lilly deoired re-arrangement of materiah without reengraving. Indeed, the piecing together of parts from different plates is l tuo frequent mode of m~king new mapи, in which no single element except the combination is new. Most school atlaBes are printed by transfer; and generally, when a greater number of impressions is wanted than the engraved plate would give, either an electrotype reproduetio11 of the place, or a transfer on to st-One, mugt be resorted to, or else the plate must be wholly re-engraved as many times as ther" will be plates worn out. In respect to style of wwk which transfer printing can now 1,>ive, it is certain that, with equal care, pla.te printing gives decidedly the best impressions, though it is poe~ible even now, by sufficient care, to print trWJsfer impressions fully equal to the ordina;ry plate impressions_ There can hardly be a doubt th11.t sueb. improvemeuts will in time be made ae to render the style of transfer printing ne11.rly a11 strong and delicate as that of plate printing. The existing imperfections are nearly always due to some dis(lovera.ble omission of earo or lack of skill in managing the numerous details which influence the transferring a.nd printing. " Autographic printing is oat now mGCh used, at leaRt in this country, though cases frequently occur in which it is very convenient, or even important. In this method, the writing. drawing, music, or other subject for fac simile, is written or drawu on antographic paper with a.ntographie Ink, just as it is to be printed. This manuscript is then placed face downward@ on the st.one, and run through the press u11til the ink firmly adheres, when the paper, hy wetting, Call be smoothly etripped oft', leaving the ink behind. On cleaning the stone, it can be printed ll.B usaal. As this proiiess requires for its euccessful application a careful observan~e of sundry preeautions, and a special preparation both of the paper and the ink, all ofwhieh be-long propArly to tile prof,.,f!Bional lithographer, ~he caaes are rare in whieh amateurs will fiud an advantage in attempting the preparation of Rutographic ma.terial for tha traDl!ferer. Indeed, the litboi.,T!'apher would generally prefer to write or иdraw any subject on the stone rather thll.ll to ex<J-Onte it on paper, and then have tu make a troosfor. For these rtl380ll8 I need nut enlarge on this method. , In the transfer pnicess as applied hl copper and steel engra.ved plates, tht~ following are the chief point'! requil'iug atiientioo: First of all, the plutes themselve~ m11st l>e in proper condition, and appn}priat.ily engraved for tmnsforring. If it is known from the firilt that a plate is to be prin~ ehielif by transfer, great ciue should be taken tu insure tJ:ie

92*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

dear, firm enteiing of nil fino lines into the metal, while the heavy lines should be cut rather shallow, nearly a uniform depth being used fiir all the work. Very lightly cut liues are apt t-0 be lost in transferring and printing, while very ileep oneи hold so mueh ink that in printing they smash out and spmad, giving a blotched and ragged e1foet. \Vat<>r-!iuing, hachures, machiueи ruling. scales, &c., shoulrl be engrat"ed firmly, with the linilи not too cloиI', as the sli11:hteиt spreadinJ( of dииse lines cnu"e" them to run together l1!ld print us a blat.k mass. It fa well, whe11 posиiblc, to avoid plaeing heavy and light parts together, as tlwy are not >Lpt to harmonize in printing. Clear letterH, with firm hair-иtroke~, with open pointed },{',, N's, Y'и, and opl'n t"p e's, with tlw heavy strok~s not very broad 1иel11tive to the light strukes, and in !l"eneral и<0 <mt as to give a rat,hcr light and uniform dfoct, will be found to give better trunofers. which will print long numbers without fillling in or loRing hair-linfls. By keeping in mind that transfer impressiom are printed from a flat surface, and that thfl ineR ham no relief except what the ink produces, and also that when lines spnиad so as to unite, there is no chance of re8loring 4iiиtinetnt>sи, un intelliхent иengraver can gener~lly avoid those failures rrf adaptation to tranиferriog which result in blotchtиs 01и missing lines. Yet this study of adaptation bas a gre~ter importance than is generally attached to it, and the routine methods of eng-ravers m1tke a serious obstacle to iusuring ir, proper attention. In packing plates for trausp1:-rtation, the en1rraved faceи ehould he well wax-coated, and on thi~ coating a pie.ce of fine paper should be stuck down tightly and the plate then embedded in cot.ton or paper, free from dnst, wit, or Jumps. The plates should not be accnmulated in cont1wt with each other, and but few should he put in one box, and all of these should be so secured as uot to he enpahle of иlirling in their beds. 'When an engraved plate iи to bfl transferred, all the Jines of the engrming иhould be cle11ned, waиhing, if necessary, with иpiiits of turpentine, or with a ~olution of potasиa for eopperи pl11te<. A 11 eeraaиhes or spots in the plane snrface should be removed by coaling, in tlrn manner of engravers when removing the burr from engravings, or the burnicher may be need if there be l:>oth skill and care. Tlw iuk employed in tahinll plate-transfer impreseions requires to be specially prepared for this use, as the effect of varier.ions in its cnmposiиiun will he greatly to modify the suceess and p1иi11ring qualitieR of the transfer. Hs consistency muиt lie so fine and s.иft lhat it can be fi1rned into 1111 the <'ngraved lines, and yet the transfer umиt ht>ve its lineи elear, ~harp, and hnrd, so that at wor~ ing temperntures the lines will not spread 01и break. The eompoиition requires to be v1uied somewhat, nC'eorrling to the work to he prinr.-d. lt 11s11ally ronsistи of lithographi<" printinl( ink, (four parts,) what is called tranиfor ink, (иix partи,) mutton-tallow, (une part,) liu,eed uil, (two parts,) and wenk varni>h, (two parts.) Th6 transfor ink iи eomposed nf yeJJuw wax, "ten parts,) mutt<m-tallow, (one part,) white soep, (three parts,) reиin, (five parts,) weak varnish, (ten partи.) and lampblack enough to give a sufficient shade, though the le!s of this the better. Great C'are is rcquiиiиe in nil lithogrnphic operations t-0 procure pure nrnterials, as the eil;,ct of impurities cannot be .-nlculated. The method of inking }!!ates iи either tliat pursued by the copperplate printer, when the transforer possesses the rcqniиite !!kill, or th" fiиJlo,.-inl(, which is the usual modi': The plate is heated over a etove or fnrnace uutil it is hot enough to ~often the ink; the ink tampon, firmly held in the band, is rnbbed slm<ly, with a rocking motion, over the entire engraved Rtuface of the plate, until all the lines are thorou!lhiy charged with ink; then the plate is carefully wiped with several succ.,ssive rags, until all the surplus ink is removed from the face, grnit care being taken not to wipe <иut too much ink from the lines, but so to manage the quantity left in aи to give the best relief to all the Jines ia the impression. All things heing thus ready, an impression is taken with the ordinary copperplate printing press, and in the ordinary mimner, t,ho11gh eithe1 an unsiZt!lt China paper or a specially prepared autol(raphic vaper is used. The autographic paper is prepared by hr11иhing or иp<mging over a paper, wbieh moisture does not much atfect, a coating uf stиrch or paste, mixed wirb !!Um, glue, isinglliss, 11amhol(e, and sometimes other ingredients, in proportions vatied by eaeh transferer. This paper, when иmoothly eonted nnd dried, is delicately moisteucd liet\\иeen dump bl11tters for printing, and t11kes a very pNfoct impreииion, ill which all the small scrntches and clouds of the plate are reproduced. Inspection shiиWи if an impression is proper for transfer; as in that case all the parts are clear and pe1f0ct, of a light tone of shade, and of uniform character, Impressions more than a week old are not gond for transferring. Ha\иing obtained a Ratisfactory impression, the transfor proJ'er is then effected. A polished stone of the proper size Is carefully dried ami b.. dded ou a lithographic press, and all things arranged for printing, the transfer ]mpl'llsиion being in the mean time moistened slightly between damp blotters. The backing papers are so arranged as to bring all parts under the requi8ite pressure. If several pieces from ditferent plates are to be combined in transferrilll.!;. the parts are pasted together 8Q ns t<l present the final arrangemeut. If several copies of the plate go on one stone, tbey arn traoslcrred in 1mcc<"Rsion. When all is ready, the transfer proof is laid, face downwards, on the stone, the backers and tyrupan nre folded down, and the stone is run under the scraper two or three times, the pre~sure being increased each time. By this means the ink lines are made t<l adhere firmly to the stone. When water is applied freely to the baek uf the transfor proo'f, the Rtareh or paste preparation on its face become9 jjt> softened as to permit the eMy se1Jaration of t,he paper from the st()De, leaving the ink lineij trnnsferred bodily on the stone. China paper dmaches itself nnd float>1 off, while auwgraphic paper is r!IAllily stripped oft'. Afoer this the et<me is carefully washed until only the ink lioet remain. Then it iи acidulated, gummed, urn! thoroughly ilried, a short interval being alloweil before inking. A wel\l!. ink is used for the first inking, nnd iи rolled on v .. ry deliherat,.ly, the st-One being kept well wetted. The swue soon becomes fit to put in the printer's handи, who ne+,.]s t<> manag;, co11tiouиly for the first hundred imprnssions to avoid injuring the transfer. The firet impres8ion~ are generally too ligtit or gray, the best i!I!pres~ions bein!l' usually the Recond or third hundred. A good transfer 110metirueи gives as mnny as five thousand unimpaired impresgions, though usually they become too much worn afoer about two thousand printings. The priuter ean, by skill or the lack of it, greatly affect th~ durability of any transfer, by looli.ing out constantly for iucipient defects, RIJd by a mriform, eaиy manipulation of the ink-roller. 'fhc quиlity of paper used bas a decided eJfeet, both on the clearness of the printing and the duration of the transfer. Soft, thiek paper, 'l>iLh little or no sizing, is generally used wh~иre иtreugth is not important; but a clear, half.sized paper, not highly calendered, plints very well if it cuutaiu no improper ingredients, such aи alum or plaster. The paper surface neede to h.. ve a slight harshness of feel, or t,Qt>th for ink, as it i.; ealled, else line lines a.re apt to be lost. It is only by a oareful sell'ction, both of pajler and of ink, thiit even a g1md printer can do justice to a tine-engraved pla.te, while with every poseib!tl aid a bad prioter will prutluce very imperfect work; the general shade of hiи impre4sions running quite uneven, and portions of hi$ tranиfor beiug so1m filled in 01и worn away. The printer m11ot maintain a proper temperature of his stone, cooling it with iced water in bot summer tlays, a.nd having the roum well heated in the winter's eold, or the ink of the> tranиfor v;ill be a.Jfocted, and blotching will result. Al8o, the regula1ing of printing pre~$ure presents considerable dillicultv, and need& wa.tchfuliiess. There are many s11ch details whieh maim the need of an intelligent lllld energetic supeni.io1i ,;ne of the first ne<leSSitit>S for good lit,hugrapby. , , The proc<>sи uow described iи one whieh, even as it is now practised, must be ealled eminently useful. Senefeld~r himself used it, though quite im1,erfoctly, of course; but it i~ only durinl{ thP. last twenty years that its capacitit'R have been ft.'ll&Uy developed Th" rnpid improvements it bas experienet,d make it almo!lt certain that before many years more it will hn'.ve b~e<hue quit'e perfect nnd certain in ite results It is now very for advantied in Fnnoo-the trne home of litl!ographie art ancl aeienee-u the maps of departmoota printed by the government fully t111tablillh. The plates of the gniat topo-

OF TIIE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*93

graphical 8Urvey of the interior of France are re-11orranged by tranиfer int-0 excellent maps of the departments, with special borders and titles, and with full letter-press statistical noteи, printed from moveable typeи, nnd tranиforred intn the propPr Rp~Ps. Jn Engla.n11 and Scntland<plate-transfor printing is prosecuted as a busine8s, though with wbat succesи I have not the means of knowi11J!. In this country, the great amount of transfer from иtone on to иtune, in making up c!wcks, bills, labels, &c., supplies many shopи with petty jobs in one species of transfer, but a few nnly are engaged in transferring large steel or eopper plates. To d1.1 this well requires a man to make plate traD8ferring hiи business: and otherwise, not only will he foil of success, but he will be apt to seriously injure and deface pl1ttf's intrusted to hiи handling. Our principal establiиhments in which plate-transfer piinring is extensively executed are J. Ackerman's, :579 Broadway, New York; D. McLPllan's, 26 StHU<'" street, New York; Wagner & McGuigan's. Franklin square, Philaddphiи: and Dun1.1's, Philadelphia. The plates of the Coaиt Survey report ha-re been in p1trt pri11t.-<l by each of tbe;;e establiиhtnents, thuugb wtu.иtitnes the work bas furnished but littlo e..-idence of skill in rnanllging this proct'BS. It wos by being for the laиt two иeasonи aaHigned to the charge of inиpectrng the work on these plates. executed by the two first.-n1tmed establishments, that I was led to such an acquaintance llit~. the suhject as to induce me to make this communication и

. APPENDIX No. 37.
Letter of Lieutenant E. B. Hunt, U. 8. Corps ef Engineers, assistant in the Coast Survf'y, to t!te Superintend.em, dc.~cribing an instrument intиcnted a.nd called by him the interranger.
CoAST SURVEY

Orne.:,

Washingtan, Jfowmber 11, J 853. Du.R Sm: In compliance "'ith your request, I will now present a descriptive and a11alytic11l report on the new j nstrument to which I hani given thti.une of tile interrungcr. 'l'his is an exceedingly simple dedce, having for it.s main object to facilitate the running of sounding-boats on lillll between signals. It may also prove valuable to veиsels entering harbon, &c., by making antilahle any desirable sailingline indicated by two marks or signals-one over the bow, and onfl Mtern. I am not aware of any meanи nnw in use whereby an ohserver can at a glance, and conveniently. иee whether he is on tbe line joining two oppoиite st>itinns; and yet, in t<ouuding rivers and uarrow bodies of water, this is the ci;se of sounding which moиt frequf'ntly occurs. No small inoonvenientle is involved in the necessity of pmlonging back from the shore all the boat sorm<ling rangeи; allfl in such instances as in the gorge of the Highl11nds, or where woods come down on fiat shores to the water. it becomes ''irtually impossible to make these prolougations. It was to meet this class of cases, and w enable the steersman of a soundingbottt to keep himself in line between fore-and-aft signals, and sn to ruR with certainty from one point to another without prolonging their range, that I devised this interr1t.11ger. It consists simply of two plane-mirrors, set at an angle of 00░, and so mounted as to be held in the hand at the distant'.<> of about a foot in front of the eye. The angle of junction between the two mirrors being held ,иertical, the opposite im&A"es, which are seen in juxtaposition along t.he junction, belong to objects on opposit.e sideи, and lo<и1Hed in the same vertical plane through the mirror-edges; w that if there be two signal poleи or ftHgs which are seen to come l<igerher on the edge, the observer iR correctly aligned between th<'m. If, when one is 011 the edge, the other is иeen some dist1>nce olf from it, then he iи otf the line, and must move in the oppo~ite direction to that iu whieh he look~; 1md if he can only catch one at a time, he must rnHve forward umil the second cume~ in sight. In steeri.Jig a boat,, if the steersman, in hиokiug to the right, fiees only one signal, on this beini< brought to the edge he must change his course to the right until both. come in sight on the edge; and if, when one is on the edge, the other be visible off the edge, he must changH his coufl!e to the left. By !Gokiug first lo the righG, and then to tho left, he can verily bis position very closely. The ubHerver should first bring one signal on the edge, and then look for the other image, wh"n he can govern his course according to its appearance or non-appearance. Fortunately, it does not matter at what angle the <1ye looks <>n the edge, as in all cases objeet.s seen in juxtapnsitfon on the edge are in the same right line paslling through it. }'or this reuon, if the edge be turned hllrizomally, and if the eye look down upon it, the line of interrange is иtill subject t() the sam" conditions. Thus this device will show if an eminence on which tb.o observer stands is high enough to cut off the line of sight between two opposite emi11eoces or point.и; and henee in reconnaisBRnce it. will serve to test the availability for observation of certain lines 'lrithout going to the limiting ata.thиns. Tbe only c11ose in which the use of the interrangcr, in ooundin11:, will pl"Csent difficulties, is when the иignals are one or both much above the water. In running between s1wh signals the eclge requires, fur p<>rfect accuracy, t() be held vertical, though cR11e$ would he very rare when the eye w111tld not give it> thi~ verticality all requisite accuracy. In this e.asc the signals come on the edge one above the other, wheu the alignment is correct. The edge, in fa.et. alwayи gives the pieture of objects, located in a plane through the edge, and making with tbe two mirrors, respectively, the 111une angle as tl:le my from the eye, perpendicular to their common <'dge. In pnиparing thi}l instrument f.иr use, itи mounting is encased in a Б1emiиcylinder with solid discs at the ends. The rounded part consists of two small doors, closing with a clasp, which protect the mirrors when not in use. These doors, when folded back, form a very oonvenient handle. The tbи1mb is inserted between them under llD elastic bantl, while the fingers lightly grasp the dool'i!. The mirrors are about an inch square. and when thus borne on the raised hlllld, the l'ye can rapidly sweep over the objects io sight. An arrangement f.,r a staff mouuting is readily attached, but for boat uw this is unnecessary. I am expecting soon to have a pri~m of speculum metal introduced in place ot t.he two glass mirrors, and in this. form I trust it ean, with due care, be uaed at sea without tarnishing too much. If practicnble, this will be better, as it will give a better edge, and ll!I no disarrangement of adjustment will be possible with a solid prism. A. modification of this mirror-eombinat.iun. by which it will become both an interranger 11nd an offset inst7'11mcnt, remains to be executed. For this purpose. one of the mirrol'i! must bti extended bevond the other, and a third. mirror JJ1nat he employed to reliect to the eye the ima.ge of its pupil when it is on the perpe,;.dicul11or to the interra.nge line from the edge. .By first using the interranger portion, the inl!trnment will be planted at the p(>int where nn offset iи req aired. It will then be so wrned as that one of the signals is seen on ~he prolonged mirror-edge from that position of the e in which its pupil rellection from the third mirror is hiseeterl by the prolonged edge; the eye then looking past the prob>nged edge, will see the perpendic11lar plane just pa.at this edge. Thus the olfser. direction can be indicated 11.11.d verified. By rem<>ving the eye Rll far as eompatib!e with distinct vision of the j)llpil an.d signal irnsgelil, the olftet line will be mor11 a11euratel.y given. A speculum metal priam..isalto likely to prove must appropriate for this inter-

e,

94*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

ranger and offset instrument, though the third mirror will doubtless have to be a glass -One. The special use of this instmment will be as an aid in surveying those lines, irregulnr roads, and bonndaries, where offsets are employed. My first idea of an interranger was that of applyin~ the rectangular mirror-combination to the object-glass of the ordinary spy-glass, 80 that the edge would bisect the field, when the superposed images might be snfficiently distinctи to give the de.trod H.lignment. Some trials showed that this could be done when the objects were veryи distinct, and at about equnl cliиtances. At quite unequal distances the Jack of a special focal adjustment for each view produces too much indistinctness. It was, moreover, difficult to catch the two object<! at once. Ahandoning this, I tried placing one of the mirrors opposite to each object-lens of an opera-glass; this gave better results, and a larger field, but the lack of two focal adjustments WM again felt. It was interesting to observe the degree of independence m the vision of the two eyes. When the two pictures were illuminated about equally, both were v<>ry distinct; but when the ligl1t on one was very much the strongest, the other faded from sight. I thought that an effect the reverse of stereoscopic could be observed, or that the natural relief of a view uиa.s flattened into a plane pietorial appearance. This device offers son!e advantages for testing the inter-depeadenee of the two eyes in vision: and I am confident that some additional knowJpdge of visual psychology might be gBined by careful experimeats with the interranging opera-glass. I next tried a combination of camera-lucida prism,;, so placed that the two faces towards the eye were in one plane, and that their edges joined. This gave highly perfect result8, 11rnl made a very satisfactory interrange. By so mounting them aи to look through a lens, or by superadding a third mirror to image the pupil of the eye, it woul<l serve al~o as an offset instrnment; but-itи field is rather limited, and good, correct prisms are too co~tJy. La.st of all, I tried the two plane mirrors, which give the simpleиt JlOssihle form of interrangl"r, and on the whole I think quite the best. When properly mounted in this form, it becomes a convenient pocket instrument, which is brought into piny with great facility, and is и readily borne on the thumb and in the hand for use; a glance gives the desired indication, and it is not difficult to catch sight of the two signals at once. Magnifying power is usually q11itc superfluous. I found it practicablo to obsorve interranges when riding m an omnibus and over a pavement-a case much less favorable for the purpose than any boat in working weilther would offer. A little practice in this, as in using the sextat1t, is n~cossary for acquiring facility. }'or souuding between signals, for sailing on interrange lines in entering harbors, for interrango and offset surveying, the right-ang-led prismntic mirror is certainly available, and will probably be found useful: it IL.however, still only on trinl, and the results must be awaited. It will possibly prove of considerable importance iu genel'!!l naиigation, should it afford a sufficieutly ready moans of interrange-sailing to authorize the incorporatiи иn of such lin<Js it1 sailing directions. The appeal mWJt soon be made to a more extensive experience; and I tmst this will confirm all present anticipations. Yours, truly, E. B. HUNT, Lieut. U. S. Engineers, Asst. in Coast SuTDey. Professor A.. D. BACHE, Superintendent Unitsd Slates Coast Surwy.

APPENDIX No. 38.
Description, by Lieutenant E. B. llnrit, U. S. Corps ef En15ineers, a.,sistant in the Coast Survey, of the self-registering tide-gauge, arranged for the Coast Survey by Joseph Saxton, Esq.
This gauge l1as for its object to afford a continuous automatic or mechanical record of the exaet time and amonut of all the riиilиg~ and fallingи of the water surface, produced, iu a limited period, by the various tidal mnvements at its locality. Due allowance beiug made for the irregular effect of winds, the ocean level at any point is constant, except for the fluctuations due t-0 the tides. The VMrtical variations of the surface level, relative to any fixed standnrd plane, wbt1n duly corи reeled for metoorological conditions, are, theref.иre, umnixed effects of the general tidal movements, as modified at the locality ol observation. In the selfregistering tide gauge, these vertical oscillations are made to record themselves in a C<Jntinuous curve, whose ordinates undergo variationи proportional to the absolute rise or fall. The corresponding abscissas am also proportionttl to the times at which these fluctuations of height occur. The rec.ord-cnrve thus presents to the eye a complete 1iicture of the vertical tid.J movements during the time of record, as well as a positive measurement of the tide height at l'ach mom..ut of time. The principltt on which the gauge <1perates, in prooncing this result, is simple in idea. A tloat, rising and falling with the tides, iи so conne-0ted with the recording pencil as to cause it to traverse acroee the rec<1rd sheet whenever the float moves vertically. A clock-work moves the record sheet lengthwise under the pencil, and prieks into it tbe hourи and half-hours. From the86 motions of the pencil nnd the paper, the record-curve results. In arranging his tide-gauge according to these prioeiples, Mr. Saxton has drawn entirely from his own.resources, hie design having been matnred in 1845, wholly without knowledge of Mitchell's, Afoxton'e, Hewitson's, Newman's, or any other, so that his construction is in no aense a reproduction of any other ga.uge. и \Vha.tever semblance may exist is due, oat to imitation, but to that almost inevit&ble similitude of resultJJ which the 88.me conditi<1ns will most naturally produce under different maater b.&nds. The gauge, aB arranged by Mr. Saxton, h very perfect in its combinations, and it bas boon found fully adequate to thor"eghly reliable recording, whoo uoder the charge of a competent person. lte main features will be at once seen on iu.speoting the drawings. (Se& Sketch No. 54.) Two princ:ipal movements are provided for in this gauge, the first being a unifi>rm movement, proportional to time, of the reMrd sheet under the pencil, and the 1ecood being a transverse movement of the pencil, strietly proportiOOllll to the &btloи lute rise or fllll of the ftoat. To give a uniform motfon to the sheet of paper, a clock-work iи used. The moving pa.rtil of the old-fuhioned eight;.day clocks, with the striking parts taken out, are employed for thi1 p11rpose, and are found to иIJe w~ll adapted. The cloek-work gives 11 uniforlJI mntion of rotat╗n to a cyliudrica.I ro!ler, (R'J mil.king it revolve once in twelve oonn-the c.onnexion between the clock and roller being made by mfl&os of a milled-head clamp-aerew, ou loosening which the roller is freed from the clock. Projeetiog from the 1111rfaoe of this roller near its extremiti6#, and aepat'Med by an interval of one foot, are two eireular rows of sharp steel points. twenty-fuur iu each circle, and so plaeed as to give on the fong sheet Qr fillet, which runs over the roller, two par1'11el atraight lines of half-b"urly dot&, or pUIM.ltu.t'es, one fuoc apart, rmd w art'1111ged that the

two dot.a OOffllllpOlldiDg to the aune time are on the auae perpendicu.lat' to ihe ii.Dee of dota. . Thee poiata llQt onl7 reoonl

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*95

the time, but they nlso drag the paper with the revohing roller so firmly as to makll l!!ipping nearly impo ... ihle, and the dots which they make, when in proper adjustment, correspond exacrly iu time with the indications of the bands 011 the clock tace. Thus, were the roller fur any reason to revolve irregularly, the cluck hands would show itи at oace by an irregular rate The force derived from the clock-weight for governing the movem<-nt of the sheet is almost null, Md is "i nearly constant that the clock actually keeps a very unitonn rate during the wbole month in whrrh a sheet is receidug its record-curve. The paper used is a long fillet-shaped sheet, about the thickness of bea>y quarto bonkиpnper, the length being so determined as to make a single sheet serve for one month. It is wound np smoothly, by the aid of a crank, on the first roller, (R) which bas limiting brass disks on its ends, betWe('n wbieh the sheet fits rather closely. The outer end of the paper is then passed over the roller (R') conMcting with the clock und<ir the light roller, (R 3 ) which is unshipped for tbe purpose, and is finally attached to the le.st roller (R 4 ) hydoubliug tbo ..nd under a small embedded brass bar. The roller above the иheet ( R") hns two small circular grooves around its extremiti<'R, into which the points fall as th11y sncressively pierce the paper. Two counterpoising weights (E arnl E ) are иnиpeud.. d from the first and last rollers (R and R') at their ends farthest from the clock. These serve toи keep иe paper uniformly well stretched, and the one running down fr-0m the receiving roller (R 4 ) is made enough heavier than the other jnst to propel the record sheet, thus relieving the clock and insuring the smooth winding up of the paper. All the milers are made of well-seasoned white pine wood, and their mountings are -0f brass. A study of the drawings will best show how the elock and rollers connect with the иuvporting frame, as also the character and dimensions of the frame itself. A wooden box-covering (supposed removed in the drawings) protects th" clock movements. The second principal movement in the gauge is that which originates in the vertical oscillationи of the float, and extends to t!Je recording pencil. The float (F) is an airи tight cylindrical or canisterииhsped copper box, whic!J is first thoroughly. painted for protection. A small bu.I lasting weight is attached to the centre of its bottom. On its Ulp is an eye, in which id fastened the end of a chain, wire, or "ol'(I, leading up through the Ho11t box. Thiи box is a water-tit?bt wooden case, large enough to permit a free play of the float, and terminatil!g at tbe lwttom in a funnel, witb 1111 orifice at its apex, about one-eighth of an inch in diameter, through whic.h the water cu.n pass as rapidly as necessary, bnt not so freely as to make the float oscillate sensibly with the snrface waves. The funnel serves also to discharge any sediment which might otherwise interfere 1.-itb the float. The lvilUom of the box extends below lowest low tide, and its top comes up to the level of the f!iitr on which the gauge standP The wire, chain, or cord, must be made secure againиt vari11ti.ms in length. The lower p'l'!l'tion may well he of copper wire, hut of the upper part a length somewhat exceedinll" the greatest extent of tide range most be adapted to winding on the receiving wheel nho'e (W). Fine silver wire and silver chain have thus far been used for the winding part, but it is hoped that a cord, which will not he t-00 mn<:h affected in its length by moi~tnre, &c., may llOOn be procured. The varying weight of the chain, as it runs olf or winds up, at first gave some trouble, und has led to the use either of light silver wire or of a special ct1unterpoise, either of which sufficiently obviates all derangements from varying \\'eights. On the axle of the receiving wheel, (W) a small cylinder (W') is attat,hed. The relation between the circumferences of the wheel and cylinder is so adjusted as to make the emire record-curve fall between tl1e lines of dots. This is done by making the small cylinder radius somewhat less than ]-nth that of the wheel, 11 being the maximum ranf,(e of rise or fall expressed in feet. By providing several sizes of cylinders, the AAIDe gauge can be used in suceession at places where the tides range very unequally. .A. silver chain nttached to, and winding on the cylinder, (W') leads up over a pulley (N) to the .small brass frame which carries the pencil (P). A small cord leads from the frame over an opposite pulley to a weight (E"). As the float rises, this weight draws the pencil towards its side of the sheet, and. indeed, keeps the chain nnd cord always stretched from t.he weight to tlrn float. On the prolonged axle of the float-wheel is arranged a fusee, or spiral windiugиblock, from which is suspend...I a counterpoise to the float-chain, the spiral being so determined as to make the counterpoising perfect, whatever length of chain be 1111woиmd. By this means the weight (E'') which draws back the pencil can be reduced t-0 the value most advantageous for the pencil chain. The pencil frame slides freely across the paper on the roll, (g g) and the end bearing tbe pencil ( P) can, at will, be folded back by turning it around the snpporting rod as a hinge. A иmltll weight bears down the lead on the paper with the force required for a clear aad permanent mark, the bearing being on the top of the t.imf'-marking roller ( R и ). A eoft lil&d ia uaed, as a hard one soon glazes on the end and slides nver the paper without marking. The two movements now described, with the details requisite for their perfect execution, constitute too whole of the tide-gauge proper. In setting it up for a series of rooordи, there are. however, some other matters requiring attention. First of all, its location should be so chosen as to present correctly the tidal characteristics of its vicinity. Its support should be as solid as practicable, to prevent the irregular effects of ~bocks nod waves in the record, and to save the machinery f1иom jars. There is also a 'uperstrueture requisite, of size suffieient to protect the gauge from the weather, and to afford the requisite access for inspecting and regulating its workillg8. Then the pencil chain has to be so adjusted by two or three days' trial as to give the recordи curve a location midway, or nearly so, between the two lines of dots. A statfgange is also required to be set up 118 near by 118 may be, and tbe corresponding readings 1>bserved. A bench-mark, for permanent reforepce, must always be carefully established, and the self..rei1istering gauge zero referred to it by me.ans of the staff-gauge and a level. All these points being duly attended to, and the gauge ~ing put in operntion by a good mechanic, the duty of the att:endant or tidal obaerver begi.M. и When the gsuge b placed near a wharfwhieh ie liable to j&rs from vessels, a separate framing of pile work should be made . for its support, '.fheae shooke and jars from the waves, and from vMsels touching the wharf, have caused .the failure of some of the N>ooi;ds by stopping tbe clock, and otherwise deranging the apparatus. The difficulties caused by the freezillg of the water in the box at the northern stations during thil BOverity of wint~r, have not entirely boon obviated, ht exp.erbnenta are making which it ie hoped may lead to their removal. It is the obaerver's busine88, at first, to vialt the gauge da.ily until fully assnred that all ia proceeding correctly, whtm a visit every otlmr day will auffice. Tbe duty of supervision in vol villi a careful watch on all the delails requisite fur the correct working of the meclMmieal arrangements. The rod muet be kept well cleaned, and be oiled ntiady once a week, care being taken to remove all surplus oil, and not to touch the pencil frame or paper, In gauges where the float chain is not oounterpoised by a weight 8ll$pCl!ded on a fusee, it may be o~.f. i n - of very low tidea, tu add slightly to the pencil connterpoille. The eloek must, of eoune, be puoctually woUDd, and ehould never be stopped eieept from an abaolute necessity, when the time both of 11topping and of llt&riing should be diiltiuetly recorded mi the shoot. Tile clock should keep llllllUl aolar time. Tbe observer shoold record on the G.eet the time and date of tbe fint hour-dot on each sheet, and of all stops and starllll, the .12 m. houNiot of the fifth day of each month, H. W. and L. W. re1pectively on the high a.nd low water edg4'8 of the !lh<Jet 'at the beginning am'l illld of the curve, the number and seale of the gauge, the locality of ob11ervation, Bild klи owo D11We. la (!1.86 of any cloek deraagement which iterrupt.s Ule <l!mtinalt.y flf r-rd, tbe staff.gauge readinp during the bre&k ~d. be~ on the l!heet, with a oote explanatory of the eirellll.Utncea. In ebangiug the 1lheet of JlaAli!r at the beginllSJtl tf themeath, a time Jllidw:ay between high md low water efwiM be cholen, 11.Dd the oloek llhould aot be Btopped.

96*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

The sheet i<hould be wound on to the first roller (R) bt running it over the light roller, (R 3 ) 11.ml tl1en removing the light roller while it is started on the receidug roller, (R'.) It is alik" important for the obsener to do what he can in k1>eping all the gauge arrangements in perfect onler, and to refrain from interforiug with matters beyond his mechauical skill. In re1&ding the record sheets, they are run over a special reading table, wl1ich has two flnm:es-one fixed and one moveиable-between which the sheet pas8es under the reading scale fixed at right-angles t"' tht1 tlangt1s, and mortised through the moveable one. A transparent scale, on which is drnwn a set of slightly converging lines corresponding to the five. minute intervals of a blllf-hour, h used for ta.king times intermediate between dots, the divcrgernm serving to make the Rea.le always applicable. By this means very r11pid readings are made. Thio tide-gauge bll.ll been tested hy about eighteen months of experience. 'the minor 1lifficulties encountered during this period are now so generally overcome, -that its workings are justly regarded as highly satisfactory. Fourteio.n gauges have already be<>n put in oper11rion, and a co11иiderable body of curve records hBR 11c.1..umulat.ed. Six of r.hese have been sent tu tbe Western coast-r.hree for permanent and three for moveable stations. The advantages of replacing the discontinuous, imperfect, and not al"иayи honest reading of the siflff-gauge by purely mechanical and continuous rerords, is so great and oboious, that the self-ri>gistering gauge must come mure and more into use. It is not here necessary tu compare the two method.и, as the points of relative advantage are quite apparent.

APPENDIX No. 39. Tables fur prrjecting maps, with notes on map projections.и
MAP PIWJECTIONS CLASSU-!ED AND DEFINED и

That department descriptive geometry, or analyais, which treats of map and chart projections, has t-0 deal solely. the terl'estri.al spheiиoid, and especially with the 1иepresentation of the parllllels 111td meridinns subdividing its surface. .As all localities, both on land ancl sea, are moиt readily and gener..lly determined by latitude and longitude observations, eo it is the moиt available and uni vernal methoJ, in constructing maps, to refor all positions to meridians and para.llels as co-ordi_ Date lines. If we conceive the earth's surface reticul11.ted by a complete framework of parallels and meridians, it is then the specific and uniform object of all modes of projection to represent these Jines on a plane surface, in the most advantageouи manner. But, as the иpberoid is incapable of direct development on a pli.ne, it only remains to present, in projection, the b~st 11ppruxima.1ion to similitude in form, relation, 11nd pro1'l>rtion11.l area in the parts of the tlarth'и surface t-O De represented. Ptolemy, L11mbert, Euler, Lagrange, De L'lsle, Monge, La Croix, Puissant, Henry, G1rnss, ond others, have treated of projections in more or leиs detail, and so1ne of them by methods of the highest grllllp and compass. t This generiil problem has Jed t<l the following modl's of projections, (u.11 technically, dwlll(h s{tme quite incorrectly 110 called,) each of which has been used, and most of which posrnss adv11Utages fur some descriptions of maps ur charts. This classified synopsis will ilerve to иhow more precisely the rt:la.tive value and precise character of the poly4!0nic projection.

or

и

CLUи 1.-Penpective projections on pl11nes ии и----

Orthographic. Globnl11r, or equidistant. Stereographic. { Gnomonic, or eentn.1.

CL.us IL-Developed penpective projections иииии

Ry a tu.ngent cone. By a llecant cone. Cassini's. и и h d I и I Flamstead's. C LUI IIIи -Pr0 Je.etiona Y eve opmg e ements.и -и ~ Bonne's, or the modified Flamstead'a. l Polyconic, {U S. Coast Survey.) The !ht chart, with eqnlll latitude degrees. Cuss IV .-Projectio>ns conformed tu some arbitrary Th.e flat chart, with latitudes= rndiu& X sine of latitude и. conditioo иииииииииии и--и ииии -ии. -и De Lorgna's. Ptolemy's modified conic.

f t

By 11 tangent cy_linder. -By a seeant cylmder.

r

r 1

.

Mercator's.

CLASS L
All "simple perspectivll projectlnns are made by 1upposing the eye at ROme pa.l'tieu1ar point, and the plane of projection repre;ientation to be pien.oed hy all the rays, or ra)~ prolonged, between the eye and an pointiu>f the panillels and meridianи. The curves oompusti<l of' all these piercing pointll of rays eonstitote a penpective projection. A pn1jection . is practicable fur any possible po&ition of the eye -0r plane, (except.when the eye ia in-'tbe plane,) but only a few among thia infinite number of perspoodvtts are convenient or eligible for eonltruetion. и и In the 11'1~ projMtlon the eye iA llиumed иt 1m infinite diitance, lllld the pl'qjectiog rays are parallel li!M!ll tc> which the plaue of projection ill perpendieular 11.t any point d ..sii'..d. By thU mstbOO, eitolea &1'0 projected into ellipaea, and the outer partи tJf tll.e projected hE"mi11phere are very much crow.ded.
OT

OF THE UNITED ST.A.TES CO.A.ST SURVEY FOB 1853.

*97

In the glahlar or equidista11t projection, originated by иr,3 Hire, the eye is placed at a dist11I1ce from the centre of the
earth= Radius sine 45░=(1 Vt) radius. The plane of projection passes through the centre perpendicular to the central ray. This proJection obviaces the orthographic contra<ltion or crowding and the tttereographic exaggeration in the outer rim of a projeeted hemisphere. In the sterwgrap4ic projectivn, the eye is taken on the surface of the earth at the pole of the great circle used as a plane of projection. Circles are stereographically projected into circles. An increasing exaggeration of p&rta from the centre outwards is its great defect. In th<:1 gw.omonic or central projection, the projection is on a tangent pl11I1e-the eye ia taken 11.t the centre of the sphere. Great circles al'e gnomonieally pt'ojected into straight lines, and all small cireles into curves of the second order or conio sections. The entire hemisphere cannot th11s be proj~ctcd, and the portions become rapidly exaggerated in receding from the t11.ngent points.

+

+

CLASS II.
Instead of projecting directly on planes, an intermediate cylinder or cone is employed in this class to receive the projection which is there developiid or rolled Ol!t on a tangent plane. The cylinder aml cone being the only surfaces which can be developed by simple rolling out, and without elementary resolution, this class always requires the auxilio.ry use of one of these surfuces, which may be as~nmed, subject to several ditferent conditions. The projection on 11. tang_tmt cylinder for development is made by placing thti eye at the centre of the earth, and projecting the parallels and mericlians on a cylinder tangent around the eqnat-0r. On development, the parallels and meridians are found projected into perpendicular straight lines. A ucant cylirnkr may be so determined th11.t the entire area of the spherical zone projected shall be exactly equivalent to its projection. These methods are limited in their advantageous application to a moderate equatorial belt. In projecting perspectively on a tangent cone for development, the eye is assumed at the eat'th's centre, and the cone i11 taken tangent around the middle parallel of the ze>ne to be projeetod. On developing this cone, the meridians a111ear as straight lines radiating from its vertex, and the parallels Bl! circular arcs concentric around this point, the middle parallel being in its true length. A socam com may be taken which will give two pamllels of correct length in the development, and much rcdnce the distortion of the extreme belts. This method of Pt-0lemy was revived by Mercator, and was used by De l'Isle in his map 1llflli. Russia. Murdoch proposed"to make the al'ea of the conic frustrum used equal to that of the projected spherical zone....;iiwo'good condition, though incomrenient in construction. De !'Isle proposed to use a cone, through the limiting parallels. : Euler proposed and detennined the cone which equalizes the errors and distortion on the cen(t'al and the two limilling parallels. The nse of two conic frustrums-one for the north and one for the south half-has also been attempted, and

. ad~ocatcd..

CLASS III .
.The class of projections in whieh positions of the spherical surface are developed by being resolved into their ditrerential .elements, which at'e successively developed, i~ characterized by 11 peculiar elegance, and is of the highest impot"tanee. By this means, any portion of a spherical or spheroid11.l surface may be reconstructed on a plane with tbe moиt perfect attai'bable prCllervation of ~e relations an~ dimensions of its parts. This class of projections is far the best for repre~nting limited areu, anJ. can even be extended with advantage in some forms to mappe-montl.es, or m~s of the entire earth's sut'face. Cassini's p.-.jution is made by first developing the central rrteridian of the area for projection into a stniight line. A series of prime verticals or great circles perpendicular to their central meridian is passed at elemen.tary distances along the meridian arc, all of which circles intersect in the spheric poles of the central meridian. These divide the surJiice into elementary rectangular teoeeelea triangles, or sector~, basing on the mctidiAn elemente.. When the meridian is developed, these elementary triangles at'e conceived to be carried with it, and then to be severally developed into plarrn tri11.ngular elements. The elementa.cy opening out between these ile~иeloJ!6d arellll may be neglected for aoine d~tance from the eentrs.l meridi11.n. Accordingly, a aeries of jllerpendieular ~traigbt lineи throllgh the gradUlt.tions of the developed central meridian is taken as a substit11te for parallels, and may be 11sed811 fti;.as the opening out between elements can be neglected. Cassini's Map of France is thus projected; but, as its inaccaracy on the extreme east and west sheets amounts to 150 toiиes in 40,000. the use of this projection is not to be recommended for areas thus extensive. Du Sejonr has developed the theocy and ibrmnlie of this method. As par!!.llels of latitude do not enter, the latitudes of pliwes mu.st be derived indirectly, excep1i on. the central meridian. Fl4m3teo.d"s projecJ:ion is based on a rel!Qlution of the earth's BUrfllAle into elementacy z1mes or rings by pat"&l!els of l&tiи tu.de taken at successive element11.ry distances laid off a.long the centr11.l meridian of the area to bt1 projected. Having developed this centre meridian on a straight line of the plane of projection, 11. aeries of perpendiculars is conceived to be erected at the elementary distances along this line. On or between these perpendiculars the elementary zones are conceived to be developed in their correct relations to each other and to the central meridian. Ea(th zone being of unirorm width, <H!cupies a constant breadth aloug its entire developed length, and consequently the area of tile plane pr<)jeetion ia exactly equal to that of the spheroidal surface thus developed. This demon.stl'Ation applies directly to 11.n analogous plane development -0f the surfatle of all suppo11a.ble sal'faoea of revolution, bo. thii generating met"idiau c11rve 'rliat it may, and even though the generatril be one of double eunature. The meridians of the developed spheroid are traced through the !llLlll6 points of the parallels in which they before intersected them. They all cut the parallels obliquely; lllld are eoncave towards the central meridian. Thus, while each quadrilateral between parallels and meridians contaiBll the llalne area and point.a after develof}menБ 1111 before, the form of configuration is considerably distorted in receiing .from the ceutral meridian, and the obliquity of interseetiona between parallels and meridiAns growa to be highly unnatural. и BmtRe's, or the mfldi}Uld FltJ.mЦetr.d's projeerion, to a great extent obviates this defect. It is the same &s Fl&metead'e, excepi; that the elementary zones, instead of being developed on right lines, are rolled out on eoueentric cireul&r ares иdellllribed from the \lertex of t~ cone tangent along ~ central paraUels for their common centre. The great importance lllld wide use of this method indooa a more detailed treatment of it under a subjoined heading. '!'he polpиiic projection, being that for whleh W!e fullow:ing tables are prepared, will be speeially explained further on
0

1n its proper place.

OLMSIV.
IR &ildltioii to ~ pel'Bpective projectioDB, 1he developed perspective, and the elementary development projections, tllere la & ol11811 ill w~ и81>1'11e extraneous, arbitr&lT mathematical coudition is i10posed, giving rise to COllStrtlined or dist.orted ~ 'Dia IJl!ihllled ~ndition ill uanally d:ae to aome praetical rouideration.

isи

98*

REPOR.T OF 'J;'HE su1'ERINTENDENT

The flat-thart proj~tion, with equal latitude degrees, is a roile method once much In use for charts. Two sett! of equidistant perpendicular lines, composing a series of equal squares, were arbitrarily aиsumed as parallels aud meridians to which llll localities were .referred by latitudes and longitudes. Hence resulted a gross distortion of figures, areas, and dirootions. Another flat-chart ~rojeetion was sometimes used, in which equidistant straight 1ines served as meridiA11s; and for parallels n. second set of straight ~rpendiculnrs at di.stances from the equator equal to those of the respective terrestrial parallels cireurnseribing cylinder tangent along the equator, the radii of for which they stand. This is a radial proje~tion on parallels being the only projecting lines. Hence resulted a very distorted picture, but one in which each quadrilateral contains an area equal to and corresponding with its spherical correlative-a direct reimlt of the relation between the sphere and circumscribing cylinder. This was the sole reeommenilation of the method. De Lort:na's projection is chiefly employed 6l! a polar projection of a hemisphere, for which use it is well adapted. A circle i~ determined equivalent in area to the hemisphere to be projected. Radii drawn to the graduations of its circumference represent meddians. A radius, graduated into ninety equal parts, is sometimes used as the latitude scale; but the chords of the polar distance of the parnllels should be always employed. Hence results equality of areas between the projected and resultant quadrilateralи in general. Outlines are traced by latitudes and longitudes, as nsual. ]<'or projecting a polar hemisphere, this method is most excellent, BR rectangular inters~ctinn is combined with conservation both of figure and areu.. Ptolemy's modified conic projection is made by using the concentric parallels of the pure conic development, and tracing curvedи <lr elliptical meridians across these in place of radial lines. By turning the convexitie.s of thege curves from the central line, and by skilful C'hoice of cuTVe8, much of the distortion due to the extension of eitreme parallels in development is ol"isted. Thiи p,rojectiou has been much used for msps of Asia, Africa, and America. Mercator's projeetian is truly invaluable for navigators in laying long comses when out of иight of land, Ill! these courses a:re always straight lines on tlie chart. Meridians are represented by equidistant parallel straight lines, and the parallels by & perpendicular set of parallel straight lines, whose distances from each other increase from tlle equator towards the poles in preiWly the same ratio a1 the corresponding longitude degrees diminish. This projection results from the development of a cylinder tangent along the equator; the meridians being projected 'on their tangent elements, and the parallels being assumed as circles of right cross section at distancea from the equator equal to the meridian arc of latitude divided by the cosine of the latitude-the earth's compression being neglected. By this means the relation of length between the latitude and longitude measurements on the chart is preserved uniformly the same as it is on the earth's surface. Tables of the increasing degrees have been ~Almputeil, and are in generlll use for laying down pal'!lle1s. Distances and areas l\lllto increasingly exaggerated and distorted as this projection is pushed towards the pole, ma.king the scale very variable frdl'IP p-0i11t to point of a.n extended' chart; bnt as the navigator computes his distance run, this variable scale is not by tmymesnR BO serious a def~.t as to offset the invaluable facility with which Mercator's principle enables him to rim directly from one point to another. For the polar portion of the earth in which this projection totally foils, a central projection can be used to SOll;le distanoo. A projection on Mercator'a principle might be made relative to the prime meridian instead of the equator, ite prime verticals serving ae the equidistant parallel~, (as in caSl!ini's,) and the circles parallel to the prime meridian being projected by the table of increasing llegret!s. This would require the investigation of the formulre for conversion of 00ordinates in this case. The parallels and meriilians of the earth might then.be constructed by points. Another modewauld bi! to make a rn.di&l and concentric circular projection around the pole, in which the len~h of the latitude degree should be deduced from the same condition as in Mercator's method, the divergence of meridians being dиly con1idered. The amount of distortion in.Mercator's projection wholly unfitR it for land mapи; and the Vl\riation of its scale in different parts would give rise to endles11 inconvenience were it applied to any other purpose tha.n that of nautieal olfиshore charts, in which direction is so much more important than !111la or distance.

tTM"

JlE>NllE'8 OR TRI!: 11-0DIFIED FLA11$TEAD's Pl\OJECTIO!f'.

This method of projection is that which haab~en almost univenally appl1ed to the J]etailed topographical ma.pa based on the trigonometrical surveys of the several States of Europe. It was origitwt.ted by Bonne, was thoroughly investigated by Henry and Puissant in connexion with the map of France, and tables for France were computed by Plessis. Jn constructing a map on this projection, a -0entral meridian a.nd a central pa.rallel are first assumed. .A cone tangent along the central parallel is assumed, the centr&l mt1riWl.\n is developed 011 that element of this oone which is tangent to it, and the cone is then developed on a lallgoot plane. '.rhe parallel falls into an arc with it8 centre at the vertex, and the meridian into a graduated right line. Coneentric circles ere conceived to be traced through points of this meridian taken &t elementary distances along its length. The zones of the sphere lying between the parallels through these points are next c-ODeei ved to be develQcped each between its corresponding arcs. Thus, an the para.Bel zones of the sphere are rolled Gut on a plane in their true relations to each. other and to tl>.e central meridian, each h&ving in projection the l!llllle wiath, length, and relation to it!l neighboring zones, as on the spl?.eroidal surface. As tAei░e are ╗o openi.ugs between consecutive develc>)Mld elements, the total area must in this ease, and in all like developments.of surfaces of revoh1tioD, remain wlwlly mutl~l't!d by the development. Each meridizln of the projection is ao traced aB to cut each parallel ill tke same poi!lt in Which it mjersected it OD the sphere. H tlie e&11e in band be that involving the greatest extension of the metlioa, or that of tlie projection of the entire sph&roillal 1111rface, a prime or central meridian must fint be chosen, one half of which gives the central straight line of. the development, ~ tlle other half cute the zones spa.rt, and becomes the outer boundary of the total developed figure. Next, th~иlatitude of the governing parallel must be auumed; thus fixing the centre of all the ooooentrle eiroleii of developraent. J!aving then drawn a straight line and graduated it from OOo oortli. 'latitade t& 900 llOOtR Latitude, a╗d kaving :liJ:ed the l'ertex or e.entre of development on it, concentric arcs are tmcrul from thie ce$e tlir<>ug.h eaeh graduation. OD eacll parallel the longitude graduati<>ns are then laid off, and the meridians are traced th h th& oon:esponding poiJll:sи. There reeulta from this process one oblong kidney-shaped figure, which :represelltB the et.fl;h's anrface, and th.a boundary line of which is the oouble developed lower hslf of the meridian first a$aullleit If the vertex @f the gover11ing cone be removed to an ininite distance, the equator becomelll too governiog paralM!l, tlie paralleh all flill illtO straight liJies, a.nd I<'lamstead's projection results. Tlle kidney.llba.ped figlml beoom.es an elongated oval. with the half meridian iиr 01lfl ;.~. a.nd th-e whole equator fur the Uthcr. A 1WJ11ewhat similar figure ill obtained by plaeihg till!l.vertex &t the .pole, and redutliug the tangent cone to & plane. An indented euep at one end, ana a roimdiAg <Hit a~ dw other~ wHlgive an approximate yearи ahape. Ptolemy's lllodilied eorde method re&che11 ita full geometrie&l te1111lt in W.eee forms, derived from the ooaditMm of ~ 4re/U in traoiltg mmdim CUJ'Velil. .

O:t"' THE UNITED STATES .co.AST SURVEY J;'OR 1853.

*99

Bonno's metbod Is r&rely applied to areas exceeding the limits of a State, but is innluabltl far topographical maps of this description. The projection is made at once for the whole territory of the map, and the rectangular system of sheets laid out on the projection. Each sheet is numbered, anиl the co-ordinates of tbe~orners a~ determined, so that the co<>rdinates of intersection between parallels and meridians falling on each sheet are reforred t-0 its R<'Alt lines as axes. This projection preservf,s in all ca.~eи the areas developed without any change. The meridians intersect the central parallel at right-angles; and along this, 88 along the central meridian, the map is strictly conect. For moderate areas, tho intersections approach tolerably to being rectangular. .All distances along parallels are correct; but dist,ances along th<i meridill!lB are increased in projection in th same ratio as the eosine of the angle hetwe>en the radius of the"paralle>l aml the tangent to the meridian at the point of intersection is diminished. Thus, in n full earth projection, the bollllding meridian is elongated to about twice its original length. While each quadrilateral of projection preser"<es its area unchanged, its two diagollllls become nnequal; one increasing and the other diminiиhing in receding towards the corners of the map, the greatest ine.quality being towardи the east an1l weиt polar corners. Though great circles between stations on the earth are generally projected inln cnrves, the amount of deviation for moderate limits is very slight on a Bonne projection.. The scale is nearly nuiform over the entire projcetion, being accurate along the parallels and along their radii, but being t-00 great along one diagonal of the quadrilateralи, and too small along the other. In"lln arp,a of 12U0 longit111lr and 700 latitude, a distance of . 7,000 miles is in error hut n'i,th. This projection has thus many excellent qualities for t<иpograpliical maps; and its defects of oblique intersections of unequal diagonals, and of scales VllIJ;ng with the point of the compass, are not very serious in a limited area, as in the map of France, or that, of England and \\'ales. A special set of tables for eaeh central par1tllel isиrequired in this method; and the extent of Uiese is w vast as to make impracticable the conception of a uuivergal set of tables. The French tllbles of Plessis are based on the parallel of 50srи or 4;,c, and arc available for any area centered on this line, except that the old comprcasion was nscd in computing them. But to construct tables for Donne's projection for use in the disconnected local IIlllps of our country was impracticable, as no ('entral parallel could be assumed for them all. Were a general topographical map of the United States to be made, a cent:rRI parallel might be assumed for that purpose; but e"<en in this case the qllel!tion should be carefully weighed, 'll'hether the BoJ!OO projection would be as desirable as the rectangular poly1:--QD.ic.
TIU!: POLYCONIO PROJECTION,* ITS PROPERTIES A.ND VARIETIES.

The operations of the Coast Survey being limited to narrow belt along the seaboard, and not being intended to furniel1 illlll map of the country in regular unifonn sheets, it is preferred to make an independent pr{\jcction for each plane-table ~d hydrographic sheet, by means of its own central meridian. These sheets embrace areas so limited as t<> exhibit i11 projection no sensible distortion of figure. and they individually agree with n11.tnre far more perfectly than they would if arranged as parts of a rectangular series prnjected on Bonne's method. In fact, each sheet is projected strictly as a local и JDap, arid its connexion with the.ijoining sheets is ostablishcd sololy by the points of triangulation. In reductions, includingи several sheetil, the plotting of points is the first step, and the change,,of sc.ale is then made by corresponding squares. By the aid of the subjoined tables a rectangular polyconfo projection can at once be made for each locality or subdivision of the United Stat.es, or for the United States as a whole. Th.a name ~e:c-ta..gula1и polyconic projection is applied to the method in which each parallel of the spheroid is d11velopid symmetrieally from an as;Jnmed central meridian by means of the mme tangent alonir its circumference. Supposing each element thus developed relative to the common central meridian, it is evident that a projection results in which all intersccti<>ns <>f parallels and meridians take place at right-angles. и и Let the most general case, or that of tbe entire spheroid, be fil'l!t assumed, the development bemg made, for instance, relative to the meridian of Washington. Starting at the north pole, the tangent cone there has t.hen it.8 limiting form, or it coincides with the tangent plane. Tl'king tben the elementary p11.ra.lle4' successively southward, the vertex of the mo"<ing tangent oone rooedes alou.g the prolonged earth's a.xis, giving to the devel<}ped parallels a receding centre and an increasing radius as the latitude diminishes. At latitude 45░ the wrrestrial- an:l development radii become equal. At the eqnator the vertex reoedes to an infinite distance. north, or the cone beeoines a cylinder, and the equat-Or foils in a straight line perpcnJieul~r to the meridian. On passing to the south the vert'3x approacbea froхl IUl infinite distance south, the parnllels ehange their concavity southward, while tlle curvature, increasing in an iuve.rse order, becomes infinite at the pe>le, or the polti.r parallel falls in a point. There resultll from this proOesl!иa biaxial U'g-nre, with four equal quadrants, the short a.'tis being the rectified Washington meridian, (18()0 in length) and. tlie l(mg axis being the entire rectified eqnat~, or about twioe the length of the shorter one. A re.entering cusp marks the bounding curve at each pole, and the meridillll, 180░ from Washingten, which circumscribes each half of the figure, is elongated on each иide to more than twiee its original length by the development. Over the entire area of this projection all parallels and meridians intersect at right-an1tle9, and the diag<mals of each projected quadrilateral are everywhere nearly equal to each other. The scale on N. and S. lines ne.ar the border is somewhat enlarged, but is very correct on E. and \V. lines, while along both diagonals it is soruewliat enlarged, though nearly equally so on each. On the whole thMe results1'rom this method much less of local .distortion than from &nne's projection. Equa.lity between the spheroidal and developed areas is not preserved, but the departure from eqaivalency is not great in amount. и As rectangular intersections and preservation of nreu are not both attainable at once, it becomes a question of preference 'between them in each case. It is',also a question whether it might not in some 1J31!es be advant11geons still further to sacrifice the preservation of areas so as to make the aame scale applicable in all azimuths at each point. 'I"his woul1l require the longitude degree& to increase from the eentre meridian outwardи inи the same ratio 1111 the correapondiug projected meridional degrees. Thill condition would determioo a new polyconic pr<>jection, whose scale, froal point t.o point, (an element which in Bonne's, l!Dd the simple pt:ilyconic proj~ction, is a function both of the central meriillap. distanoo, and azimuth) would become a function of иthe central meridian distance only, and would increase alike in all directions on -receding from.this line. Buch a projection would reduce distortion of local e-0ufiguration to an abl!Olute minimum, и.and the a~ in projection would be proportional to the squares of their local graphic de.grees. This would enable us to take strict ., accotlllt of thuse irregularities of ~ale which now lurk in disguise. But it would be a great labor to prepare the tables requisite fur its ready use, and there would be ROme ~id objections to its results. In a large topographical map thus projected, the scale of each sheet eould be derived and engraved on its plate, making the sheet quite homogeneous Oil. that scale, ~ct in the pi:eserv~tio!l of i~ ooxlllgnration. Were.a tGpogra.pbical map of the United .Stllte~ to be ~der onTliberal l!Cllle, th111 proJectwn might be fooDd Sllperior to any other, ll8 in each sheet areas, dimensions, rela~ns, mtersootio1111, would be well preael'Vl!dиaoootdlng to its own M111le, giving it the greatest l~ perfection, uld alao eomltlne correctly in ita properpla~. Io i!lwuld be stated. that this projection is no-Yel and untried. Wbiell llaYe
;;fJt.j,,boped *"llOIDи'~ I i - to present .Ome further il>fonnat1$t mo' tile

a

.

'

.

been~. kmatcriall llOW avnilable иftlr I.bis pu~ ~-IW!lted to aut11ortze anempting tbil иbn.ndt of

!Ustory of the

polyconic pmjeelion, lUld on Uae awlieattons Of it

\be eubje<:t.

100*

REPORT

OF

THE SUPERINTENDENT

The method of projection in common use in the Coast Snrvey office for small areas, such as those of plane-table and hydrographic sheets, may be called the equidi$ta.nt polyconic. This ought to be regarded rather as a convenient graphic approximation, admissible within certaft. limits, than as a distinct projection, though it is capable of being extended to the l&rgeat areas, and with. resulta quite peculiar to itself. In constructing such a projection the central meridian and a central parallel are choun, and they are constructed just as in the rectaDgular poly conic method. The top or bottom parallel, and a suffichmt number of intermediate ones to dotermine"the meridians with proper cOTrectneиs, are construeted by the tables, and the meridians are drawn. Then starting from the central parullel, thfl distance to the next parallel is taken from the clntral meridian and laid off on each other meridian. A parallel is traced through the points thus found. Each parallel is constructed by laying off equal distances on the meridians in like manner, and the tabular auxiliary parallels are, all except the central onl", erased. In fact, as only the points of intersection are required, the arudliary parallels should not be actually drawn. From this process of construction results a projection in which equal meridian distances are every"where intercepted between the иame parallels. и .If we conceive this projection extended to include the entire earth, a singular resultи appears. Taking the equator as tlie central parallel, all the parallels become concave towards this line; fort.he distance between parallels measured.along the curved meridians being constructed equal to that along the central straight meridian, it is evident that the p21.rallels muat converge in receding from the central meridian. The parallel of 90░, or the polar poin~, becomes extended into a curve, whose length approaches that of the developed equator. It will be seen that each parallel falls nearer the equator than it would in I-'Iamstead's projection, being, indeed, tangent on the equatorial side of the FIRIDBtead perpendicular. Th11s, in this method the projected area is less than that of the spl1eroidal surface. If an equidistant polyconic projecи tion be made on the Mme central meridian and parallel as a Bonne projectfon, its area will in like manner be less for eaeh rectangle and for the aggregate; hence this projection: where extended to a great surface, always gives it.a aи ea too small. иIt .also makes its meridill!l arcs unduly short, and the extreme parallels much too long; giving a grotesqueness to the polar regions bordering on that of a Mercator prи~ection. The scale becomes iq some parts excessively de.pendent on azimuth.; the distortion in the polar corners is very great; the inte:Qleetions are far from rectangular, and they-are so conditioned as not to be readily computed. From these defects, so gross in the de-. eloped spheroid, and still great even fa a map of the United States, it is clear that the polyconic-equidistam projection ought by no means to иbe extended beyond the moat moderate limits. A square degree, ou a scale ofи rm'rcm, may be taken as a limit, beyond which no convenience of graphic eonstrnction should induce the nae of this approximation. Bey"nd this limit the Teclangular..polyeonic method should be employed, at least in all Coast Survey projections. A The polyconic method of projection bas been developed in the Coast Survey office, and the subjoined tables, preplll'e'r' for facilitating its U8e, were there computed, and e.re now first published. и и ;

Formulre U$ed for the computation of the Projection Tables in use at the Ooast Survey office.
The data upon which the tables are founded are derived from a discussion of the magnitude and figure of the earth; commeneed by Mr. Bessel in "Schumacher's Astronomishe Nachrichten," No. 333, and continued and corrected in No. 438 of the same work by the same writer. и Formul<B for calcul.ating the tknumts for the p1'0jti:tion of maps '

и

Let a be the e'1atorial radius;
b the polar radius;

e the eecentricity

= .,/ 1 -

,

__ b"

-;;-i
a

L the geodetic latitude;

Dm the length, in metres, _of a meridion~. degree;
Dp the length, in metrel, of a 'deg~e of the parllllel;

R,,, the radius of curvature in the иmeridian;

Rp the radius of curvature in tho pll.l'llliel.
Then,

a (1- oи)

Rm= ( l - eи sin
Rp
a cos L ( l - eи sin

'L)f

1 B sin 1"

B

( l - eи sin 'L) f a (1- e 2 ) sin l" '
(1- eи sin 'L) i

B==--1R,,. sin l"
иA=и cosL Rp sin l"

~L)~ =~,

cos L

A=

a Bin 1"

и
и

.Leagtli of a minute in the

meridian=60Rmsin1''=~и
60 :
11

;Length of a minute in the parallel= 60 Rp sin 1"=

L.

Tables Фintaining the values of A and B have been computed in this office, forming a part r>f tablet for tbe ll()mputation for dlft"erencea of geodetic latitudeи, long'itudec, a.ad azimuths. ".J.lhe fullQ.WiDg Wl'JllWle may a.ho be Used I

D.,.=Jlll20"'.619-55Bm.080

008

2 L+ lm.168 COi 4 L-0111.002C0.6L1

Dp = 111399"'.675 eoaL-93"'.212 eoи 3 L+O.l1600115 L;
or! making

dn L'=и sin Lt 1ogD;p=6.o~+loa-aotL-lo1- eo1I1.

OF THE UNITED STA.TE.S COAST SURVEY FOR' 18i>3.
Tabl.e of toflstllntll an4 their logarithms.

*101"

a= 3-272077.14 toises .ииииииииии ~ иииииииииииииииииииииии.ииииииииии 6.51482'J5337 h=3261139.33 toises иииии.ии.ии.ииииииииииии.иииииииииииииииииии. 6.51~93539 I toiae 1.94903631 metres, (December 10, 1799).ииииии.ииииииииииии 0.2898199300 l metre =0.513074074 toises иииииииииииииии..и --- и ---- -- ииииииииии 9.7101800700. a=6377397.16 metres иииииииииии.иииииии.и.ииииии.ии.и.ии.иииииии 6.8046434637 и b=635fl078.96 metres ии.иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.ииии.и. 6.8031892839 a: b:: 299.1528: 298.1528 e=0.081696830 .иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии 8.9122052 e'=6.006674372 .иииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииииии.иииииииииии. 7.8244!04 a 2 =4067K9t485356 metre sq .ииииииииии.и..иииииииии.и.иииииии.и. 1!1.009-~9274 b' =403997397838>11 metre sq иииииииииии.иииииииииииииииииииииии.. 13.6063785678 a.re l'' or sin l" и.иии...ииии.иииии.иииии ~- ...ииииииии....ии..ииии.. 4.68557 48668 a (1- e 2 ) и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и и 6.8017351 111120.619 .... - и - ииииии.и - ии.ии - ии.ииииии.ии.иии --- -- ..... --и ииии 5.0457946543 111399.675 ии---- иииииииииииииииии. ииииии ииииии.ииии. ииииии иииии. 5.0468839231 a sin l" и...и.ии.ии.и...............ии...........и.........ииии... l.490'.218330!>

Logarithmи.

=

иFor the curvature of the parallels we have the following formulre : ' R-~" . . a oorg L ""ms of curvature eqnal tangent end"mg on the mmor axts=-(l ~L 1 " и - e 2 sm и )"и For oonvenietlee sake, co-ordinates for the curvature h8ve been computed. . Let x' be the abscissa from the principal meridian; и y the corresponding ordinate ; . n the number of minutes of longitude; and i\d the corresponding angle between the tangent and the chord, at the intersection of the parallel and middle meridian. и Then, id'n !1=30" sin L sin 1"; x, = 60 n Rp sin l'' cos !\S; y=60 n RP sin l'' sin! e;

,. ?.. minutes on the arc 11f pa.rallel = 60 t1 RP sin l", and subtracting x, we obtain x

dilferene.e 1- cos i\ 8) 60" R, sin l"- This quantity x is tQ be laid off in a direction towards the middle meridian; x and y may be expressed iD. the folи : lowifg convenient form for computation: 1800 t1и sin L cos L sin. I" 11= A ; .:=y (15 n sin L sin l''); .,_

=

=(

-which latte\" . l a is very nearly strict; the error

~

is not perceptible ln any of the maps In use. In order to lay off

more aoourately the lengths of arcs on the parallels in large projeetioBB, the length oi the chord may be computed.

иE:i:planation of tfw tablea.
TABLJ: I.-This ia a table of constants; for nae in the eonvel'llion: of llJlite.TABLI: ll.-To facilitate the conver11ion of.A.. Metres into statute miles, from J to 100,000. B. Statute miles int-0 metres, from 1 to 100. . C. Metres into yards, from 1 to 100,000. и D. Yards into metres, from 1to100,000. E. Yards into stat11te milea, from 1 to 100,000. TABLи III.-Length of a meridian degree for each 5░ of latitude, from 20░ to 50░ latitude, expressed in statute and na.utical miles. и TABLE IV.-Length of a longitude degree on each degree parallel, from 170 to 50░ latitude, expreHed in.A.. Nautical miles. " B. Statute miles. C . .Metres. TABLE V.-For use in projecting ll1aPfl Cllvering an extended area. It gives the requisite values of the meridian wd parallel 11rcs, (Table V-A) and of X and of Y, (Table V-B) for 70░ in total longitude, on each degree paraUel of latitude from 17" to 50" latitude. Taking the meridian of Golveatoo, or 9f,0 W. ofGreenwieh, for the centrel meridian, this table extends 350 E. a.nd 35░ W. <>fit, or from longitude 600 to longitude 1300 W. of Greenwich. '!'his embracee the entire United States, Nova Scotia, and about &0 of the Pacific ocean, in the northem United States latitudes. Th, иuthem limit, latitude 170, includes the four prineipe.l West India Islallds ; and the oorthem limit, latitude 50░, embraces a. narrow belt of British America. For projections of llO great an extent, the suceessive parallels and meridians will not be leas than a d~ apart. This table will be fo11nd to s11ffice for elttended lllllpe of the United States, in whole or in part. When a more detailed prnjection is reqtii.red, and in all caaea ofloeal maps, recourse sliollld be had to the following tablo: TlllLB VI.-Thiи table presentll the requisite lengthil of l&titude and longitmle area on meridians, and on parallels, with. the corresponding values of X and ef Y, fur llll loca! ph;etlliions ofl11rge 8Jlllle, whieh can be desired between theиparallela 240 and 560,и The area of p11rallela &re given to ~ ll>r each lllinnts of latitude, and the other elements to a ooneaponding depoo fJf accuracy. The minuter arcs being Only i:.;jquired in uslllg large scales, it was u n - r y further tu ext;end the area of patallela. Interp<>lationa may bo reawteil tie if desired. Jn Tables V u.d VI, the aresи on. ea.eh page, f~ l'~ to i" Of lollfPtude, are obtained by lhifWlg the deeimal point one plaCe to the left, ill ilw eolumna froul 10" to 00"'.

102*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

Graphic construction of polyctmic projections-Coast Survey methods.
Having fixed the limits to be covered by the projection, the c<'ntml meridian is represented by a. straight line, as nearly as practicable, through the centre of the sheet. From a.n assumed starting-point on this line are laid olf the suooessive meridian arcs, as taken from the tables.

.Rectangular polyconic method.
Through each point of division on the central meiidian, given by these tabular arcs, erect a perpendicular to it by means of .a well-tested right.angled ruler, with twenty-four-inch legs, and a hard pencil; or first cnrelully construct a single accurate perpendicular by sweeping interseeting arcs with the beam-compaBB, and then draw on each side 11 parallel to the . eontl-al meridian, on which Joy off the meridian distonce from the perpendicular, and draw the parallel lines through the three equidistant points thus obtained for eath. Take from the tables fur each required point of irrterseetiou between parallels and meridians, its appropri&te length of arc of parallel, from which subtract tho corresponding X. Lay off this difference from the central nieridian each way on its proper perpendicular, and erect, towards the pole, ac the point so formAd; a perpenrlicular equal to the corresponding value of Y in the tables-its e:xtremity is the point of intersection required. Thruugh all the correиponding poiuts of intersection trace the parallels and the meridians. .Erll.l!e the auxiliary lines, an<l write on the margin the numerical latitude and longitude. The fc~lowing mode is more rapid and better checked : Lay off first the longest arcs of parallel, arid then take the length of a single subdivision of the parallel in a pair-'ofhair-spring dividers, and step it off on the perpendicular to the right and left of the centrnl meridian, beiug careful not to prick the paper. Having ad,iusted the divfders so 8i! to bring the extreme points thus obtained to 11 perfect agreement, prick lightly the subdivision points. Take from t\e tablesи the successive values of :X for each point, and when these are sensible on the scRle used, lay them off back towards the central meridian from the points before obtained, and erect, at the last points, perpendiculars equal to their respective values of Y. As :X is always sm,vll, ond for some entire projections qбte insensible, this method is much more convenient than that of anи the while using Tong distnnceи: but the check of a total measurement on each pa.1иallel is quite indispelll!llble, иas an insensible error in taking the subdivision distances grows, by repetition, to be very evident in the check measurement. Equidistant polyeonic method-(~ Inadmissible in projectiuns covering m()re than one square degree.) Proceed Ii.I! и before to graduate the central meridian, and to construct a central parallel. Cunstruct the points of meridian intersection '<ith the tnp and bottom parallels, aud W! many intermediate parallels as are requisite closely to determine the meridians. Through these points then draw the meridians. Starting now from the central parallel, lay olf on each meridia.n the distance to the required parallel equal to that on the central meridian, and trace the parallels through these points. Proceeg in like manner t<J construct the others, using always the central p!l.rallel as a base, and the totals measured from it along the central meridian in laying off. This method requires much less recourse to the tables than the other, nnd is sufficiently accurate, Within a square degme, и on a sea.le of "fuMuи 'lbe X and Y m!!.y often be neglected as insensible in small projections; but no value of X, whicli is и at all appreciable on the scale used, should be neglected. The Y, for the auxiliary parallels, atfeets the meri~ less;; , rapidly, but its palpo.bly sensible values should always be used. The following quantities are sensible, yet only barely sensible, on the scales alfixed: 12 metros on a scale of 1!1Jihruи и 10
11 3 ~TIUи , 't!!-or 2 " " nrilmrи These quantities are quite overal1adowed in large sheets by the exp11.11sion and shrinkage of ilrawing-paper from day to day. In both methods the X and Y should 3Iways be used for goo(! projections when they would be sensible on the sen.le in use. And it jg pecnliarly essential ro accurate projections that the. bygrometric condition of the pa.per be kept as uniform as possible -during all the time th!!.t measured distances are being laid down. It is often better to mark. simply the intersection pointl! by o small cr11ss to omit the remainder of the parallels and meridi1111s. .For plotted points this iи also the best indication, if the cross. lines are stopped on ellCh side of ihe point, just far enough oft' to leave the !li.ot distinct. }'or drawing para.llels and meridian curves 11 long, slender, flexible rnler of strai11ht-grained, !!tldar, or other oompact wood, is employed. Itl! eroBS section is three sixteenths(!.;) of an inch by two sixteenths('!\;) of an inch, A specially designed steel ruler wight be found preferable. There is a small groove on the top of the ruler, and its ruling edge iB slightly levelled. Leaden, paper-covered, beak weights, of about 4 pounds weigh( each, are used to hold the ruler in place from point to point. These are so shaped as nCJt to incommode the hand in ruling, and each baa a hooked beak, ending 1n a knifil-edge, turned downwards, which, resting in the n1Ier groo".e, throw~ the mainи bearing of the we~ht on the ruler, while its small end rests on the paper. The beak weights in use are live (fи) inches long, two and one-eighth ('lf1) wide, and two and one-eighth (2~) deep, the beak being five-eighths (ft) of an inch long, and turned down one-foutth (a) inch. The mass of lead is nearer the beak end. Having placed the ruler approximately, it is so adjusted under a beak weight to the first point that the curve will be rnled enctly through it. .It ie thAn adjusted under a second weight to the next point, and then bent to the next in like manner, and so on until the entire curve is completed. Before ruliag this the eye should criticise it carefully, as a. check on graphic errors. 1''or fine prujectioos the hardest pencils are best; and in inking, the lines ehonld ai drawn as delicately as clearness permits. When no metre Bt>.ale is at h!llld, the tabulated distaooes can be converted into yards by Table II. or by the constants of Table I; or, when the greatest accuracy is not imIMJrtant, a metre scale can l'elldily be coostrmited from a. yard or fuot scale by p.roportionality. Thu~, rule two parallel sealea, one of yards and one of five-aixtha. (t) }ards, and draw a third parallel, wh~ distanee ouwde the ;yard scale is .lиAJl"- th of that between the yard and Jl:vil-l!l.xths yard Beales. ThrDllgh the timihu- graduations draw иtraight fillet!; these will give a metre scale by their intenectiona. If apace permits, a point may be t11batitllted for the five-sixt.hs {!)yard scale, The projeetien once con.traded, may be uaed mdependent of the unit of the tal>lea. и

8 " 6 or 5 "

"

lfl!nurrи

TI!bи

orrmmи

+,and

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*103

TABLE I.

Relation between

the measures of length used in different countries.

Derived from 1 metre at 32" Fah.

= 39. 36850535 U. S. standard inches at 62░ Fah.
.American feet. 3. 1. 2.99982591 0. 99994197 3.28070878 6. 3iH219

Units. American yard ............................................ .. American foot. ......................................... _.. . English yard ............................................. .. English foot, (Kиr's value) ................................ .

English feet .
3: 00017409
]. 00005803

:Metres. 0. 91443654 0.30481218 . 0. 914::!8347 o. 30479449и . 1. 1. 9490366.

Metre .......... : ........................................ .. French toise ........... ~ии--и ............................. .

3. 1. 3.23089917 6.394590

TABLE II.-A.

Table for converting metres into statute miles.
l metre= 0. 000621316 mile. [G. 7933335.]

1
: Metres.

Miles.

JI

-----r-----11 i 100000 62.135 '.... 9oiio" и- -и--и5:59-2---- \----900иии 9()()00 55. 9'21и
80000 70000 60000 50000 40000 30000 20000 10000 49. 708 43. 494 37.281
31. 067

I

Metres.

Miles.

1 1

и

Metres.

Miles.

11

I
1

Metres.

I

Miles.

и----1i~559---- \
1

1

и--и

24.SM
li:!. 640 12. 427 6. 213

I
I I

8000 7000 6000 50(l0

4. 971 4. 319 3. 12s 3. 107

I II
I

j
i

I

800 700 600 500

o. 497 o. 435 o. 373 o.1ss

90---+--- ---,,~o56
80 70 60 f10 40 30 20 10

'----

;i
ii
I,: 1 [ 1
1

I1

I
I
.

1и

o. 050 o. 044 o. 037

4000 3000 2000
1000

2, 485 1. 864 1. 243
0. 621

I

aoo

400

0. 311 0, 24!)

0. 031 0. 025

II

,I Ii

200 100

0. 124 o. 062

I

I\

o. om o. 01.l!
0. 006

i

и

TABLE II.-B.

Table for converting statute 1niles into metrrs.
I mile

=

1609. 40831 metres.

(3. 2Qfi6605.]

:Miles.

Metr08.

Miles.

Metres.

Miles.

Metres.

Ii

II

Miles.

Metre&.

100
00

160940.83 144846. 75

.......... ........ ... . ... . . .. . ... . .. .. ...................... ............ : ... 111, ............. ... .....................
~

I

9
7 6

80 70 6V
50 40 30

123752.66 ll\!658. 58 96&64.50
80470. 41

'! II
\I
11

8

6(376.33 и8282.25
3'Jl88.17 16094.08

20 10

5 4 3 2

14484.68 12875. 27 11265. 86 9656.45 8047.04 6431.63 4828. 23
1609.41

l

0.9

g:и~

1126. 59

1448. 47 1287. 53
965. 65 804. 70 643. 76 482. 82 3'.ll. 88

I!

0.6 0.5 0.4
(1.3

1
11

3218.82

l

1

0.2 0.1

160. 94

o. 07. 0. (J6 :1 o. 05 l! - o. 04 ll o. 03 ii 0.02
Ii
11
~

i ,

o. 09 o. 08

144. 85 128.75
112. 66 9KU6 80. 47

64.38
48.28 32.19 16. {)9

0.01

104*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
TABLE II.-C.

Table for converting metres into yards.
l metre = 1. 09356959 yard.
[O. 0388464.]

----~ии---- ----1---и-- l--- ------ и---11-----1----1---1 i 100000 109356.96 .......... ии-иииииииии иииииии. и---иииииии-1---иииии ............ ииииииии и-и-ииииии 9(iooo и 98421. 26 9000 9842. 13 I 900 984. 21 90 98. 42 9 9. 84
souoo
87485. 57
BiJOO

.Metres.

Yards.

'f

Metres.

Yarde.

/Metres.

Yards.

: Metres.

Yards.

Metres .

Yards.

,

70000 60000 50000 40000 30000 20000 1000-0

76549. 87

65014. 18 54678. 48 43742. 78 a2'!07.09 21871.39 10935. 70

7000 6000 5000 4000 aooo 2000 1000

8748. 56 7.654. 99 6561. 42 5467. 85 If 4374. 2811 32so.11 1 21s1.14 i 1093.

I!

5711

800 700 600 500 400 aoo 200 100 I

I

874. 86 705. 50 656. 14 546. 79 437. 43 328.07 21s.11 109. 36

ii

1 I

1 1

'

I

I
,

II

so 70 60 50 40 ao 20 10

1и

1

87. 49 и 7G. 55 65. 61 54. 68 43. 74 32.si 21.n 1и 10. 94 : .

8

8. 75

7 6 5 4 3 2 1

7. 65 6. w 5. 47 4. 37 3.28 2.19 1. 09

1

TABLE II.-D.

Table for converting yards into metre8.
1 yard

= O. 91443654 metre.
[9. 9611536.]

Yards.

Metres.

I,

Yards.

Metres.
и

1: Yards.
'

II

Metres.

-----1-----1
100000 90000 80000 70000 60000 5otoo 40000 30000 и 20000 10000

I
1

1! Yards. I

Metres.

11

1 иии--иииииии

91443.65 ииииииииии 82299. 29 и 0000 73154. 9'2 0000 64010. 56 1 7000 54866.19 . 6000 45121. 83 5000 36577. 46 I 4000 27433. 10 II 3000 18288. 73 I' 2000 9144. 37 1000

--1

I

I

I

8229. 93 i 7315. 49 I 6401. 06 i 5486. 62 I 4512. 18 ! -3657. 15 1 2,743. 31 I 1828:87 914. 44 1

ииииииииIииииииииииии! ........ ииииии-иииии ooo , s-22. 99 : ~ 82. 30
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 731. 55 640. II 548. 66 457. 22 365. 78 274. 33 1s2,B9 91. 44
11

1-1---Iи и-и- ииииииии.ии

I

Yards.

Metre11.

80 70 60 50 40
. 30

l:

I

20 10

73.16 64. 01 54. 87 45. 12 36. 58 27. 43 18. 29 9. t4

I

9 8 7 6' 5 4 3 2 i

и

'7. 32

s. 23

и6. 40 5.иt9 4. 51 3. w;
2. 74

o. 91

1. 83

TABLE II.-E. Table for converting yards into miles.
1 yard

= O. 000568182 mile.
[6. 7544873.]
'

Yards. 100000
OOOOQ

Miles.
56. 818 . 51. 136 45.455 3D. 773 34. 091 28.409 22.7fif1

Yards.

Mi}eB.

Yards.

Miles.

j

Yards.

Mi.lei.

. ......................
9000
8000

...... ..... . . .... ..... -и .............. .... ........ ....... ........ 1.......... .. ...................
5. 114
900
4.545 3.977 3.409 2.841 2. 273 1.765 1.136.

70000

~

800
700 600
500

50000

00000.
40000
30000

7000 6000

i

5000

20000 10000

11:045 11. 364
5.682

4000 3000 2000

0.511 0.455 0.39e 341. 0.284

90

80

o.

70

60
50

400

o.~

40
30

300
I

0. 170
0.114 0.057

1000

o. 568. I

200 100

20 10

0.0-23 0.017 0.011 0.006

o.= o.

o. 051 0.(145 0.040

Blank page retained for pagination

Blank page retained for pagination

TABLE V.-B.

Co-ordinateR of curiиature for each degree of longitude, f1иoni 1░ to 35░, betwcm the latitudes 17░ and 50░.

~ .,; \

1

~1r '
0

!~I.

___
x. I
()

Latitude 170,

Latitude 18░.

J

Latitи1de Jllo.

Latitude

~wo.

Latitude 210.

Lutitude 220.

J,atitud ... 2:30.

~~,---Y_. -i--~---,--;--i---~.--- -1---~-.-i--x. -_I I I --!
Y. и
Mdres. 272
l,(187 2, 445 4, 347 6, 7!l'2 9, 780

1l 4 J4

Y.-

-i-~-----li---

Y.--1

x.
Metre.,. J 5

I

Y.

:--

0 ".l "'!

Metres.
3 9

1 2
3 4 5
6

llfetrcs. 0

22
43 7i'i

10 25 48 133

31

Metres. 286 1, 142
2, 4, 5{;!) 7, 13ll JO, 2811

I

JJfctrcs.

. 1

u

mo

1I 27 53 !J2

3I
!

Metres. 299 J, 196
2, i\92 4, 71'() 7, 47H JO, 7G8

Metres. 0
4 1:3 30 58 101

Meltrs.

ltfctrr~.

:Metres.
32.') ], 300 2,!!:!6

312 1,249

lt!ctres. 1 4

Mctr~s.

Ml'lrcs.
3~0

ill
trj

2,811
4, !)!17 7,803 11, 24:i

15
3:>
Ii!}

3:~

7 8

119

9
10

I

178 253

:m

J 3, 311 11, 386 22, 004 27,lll6
32, 871 39, l l9 45, 9 IO 53, 245

J 32 191
2s1 3tl5
r;12 61)6 1'4ti 1, 050

1:1, m:i 18, 210 2:1, 1au
28,555 34, 552 4 I, l\!11 4H, 21m 55, !!70

w;
218 a 1o 425
a6(i 7:14 9:;4 1, Hi()

H, n;,7 rn, 143 24, 228
2~l,9Jl

mo 2:m :i:m 4fi6
620 81)[) 1, 02-t 1, 27[l

l!i,

;ll):~

li4 110 174

19, [).~7 25,2\16

:r.o
fill!) (ii7

2ii0

5,\102 r<, 1:!7 11, 711.\ 15,931 20, Rll7 2G, :-1:34
aZ,511
3~1,

Im
189

33.S ], 350 3,0:lfl 5, .100 H, 4:1~ 12, 1;,1

rn

i,:mti
3, 146

L'!

z

rn,:;:m

282
402

21, 602
27,:Ho

:!H 7G 12\l 204 30f>

5, r,!l;3

>-l
trj

n,r,s:1
2~.

i'. i:1H

t;)
lJl

J7, 127 2'J. :i;o

4;i;-,

:ll'l

::JI, 2:m
37, 789 44, U72 [>'..?, 77!J 61, 211
70, 2()8

11
12

461 500

13
14 15 16

762
951 1. 170 1,42() 1, 103 2,021

17
18

19
21.1 21 22
23

2. :177 2,772
'l 'lll)

I I I

1;i, 123
6!l,M5 78, 510 8'l,nl7 fJ8, nfiV J<l8,Hfrl 119,801 J:!l, 4R;J 143, 7()8 156,47:> J6!J,787 18:1, 641 1H8, 1'40 212, ntio us, 46G 2H, 4H3 21\ 1, 11()4 2iH, 180

J,aoo
J,;,77 1, .~92 2,241) 2, ii41 3,080 :1,;.111; 4, JOO 4, li>ii> 6,0lfi 6, 71l7 7, 57() 8, 4;>'! H, 3tlJ 10, :1% JI, иiiO 12, 1317

64,2:;1
7:!,10:3 82, fi2fi 9:!,G21 JO:!, Oe'7 ll4,2'H
J2f>,tl;l~

J,434 J,740 2. U8il 2,47'3 2, llH :3,:m<J
3,!)~5

3n, rn:i 4H, 07\i r;o, ;,r;o u8, H2ii 67,:1110 7G,:-,73 Sn, 44a 9G,!JJ2 1117, 980
ll~J,G1;J

:3:1n

5:'12
7!l4

3:J, 75:l

DHO
;'l:l

40,e41
41', fiO.t
f>7,04!l

:Ji, n~.4 42. 204

>
>-l
trj C/l

>-l

f'i!J
], 117

4fl, Hlfi
54, ll44 G:J, 722 n, 1:,0 8:1, 22')

1,:mr.
1, 7JH
2,0H;J

1,l'ii3
l,900и 2, 2nn 2,719 3, Hl7
3,7~!9

flfi!l ], 212 JJ>14 l,8f12
2,~no

1.mn
\!,1111

1, :no

50, :1:n
[i!l,1172

7!l, !l50
9fJ,2S;-,

GG, JGG 7\ !141 8(), 408
fiиlli Jli!I, !\Gil
~17,

1,Gl:"

~".и C~ II~

C':l

2,441
~' ~)2";
~ и.r;r, 4, 11.1.<7

,,-, 6-J(, i-''l, 4rl2

0
~

lJl

2,49tl

93,m-,s
JO!'i, 3;37

2. 711

101, lt'ti

2,

~)i)!j

ll2, 741
124,1m 1:i1, 72;, l!'il, 1;;;, l!ii>, 210 17ll,88(i lfli>, ]l;!J 211,IW 227,Cli':l 24~. 1'4i> 2fa!, 1Wl 281' {ii2 :3011, 1'22 3W,7!l7 3411, O!J7 ;J(il, 022 3:cl2, S70

:J, 487
4, Olli

117, :Jli6
J:!O, 04!)

3, :lf.'J :l, 71'1
4, 414 5, 1 llJ '" ,97;; (), 11:1
7,6~7

101, l)l(i ]l:l, 2:.0
Jr':! J:l!l,l"lr> Ji>I, 14(i
1~1;,

....,
~

7>

121, f<.J!) 1:ir,, 111:1

4, i(i7

24 25

26
27
2:l 2!1 30

4,217 4, 7HI 5,415 6, ll!li 6,8иi1

3: 6~~)

r., :in

7,HOS
8,4'12 f),aG7 10, :l'iиl 11, :JUG 12,4iil J:l, 621 14, 85f)

3l
3'l 3:l 31 35

J.JS, 21)7 H> J, Olil I64, 482 17H,47иl 1!13, 03.S 20H, 172 22:1, ~;s 21(1, i;,5 2r,1, ooa 2i 4, 422 292, 412

4,f>24 G, 170 G, H74 6,1i;;9 7, 4fi~ 8, 3()J 9, :l:!R JO, :iua 11, 472 12, 6f,8 I:l. 923

J:ll,!!O!J 144, i70 lGR, 2:!0

1n. 2~9

1HG,!J45 202, 200 21-", Oi-,2 2:14, r,04

4,:llfi 4, !H.i:J 5, li7J 6, 44:1 7,282 8, Hhl !J, 17и1 10, 2:n

4, 71P'l 5, 41:l G, J:':i 7, 02.~ 7,!l!:l 8, (}:Ji> 111,00fi 11, Hill

14;1, ;)7;,

1r,1, a:--,0 111, n~r.
11'7, 2(i(j

rn:i, :11it

Mt<, .~;->1

i'), fl)!)
(),at~

-;
trj
~

rn.1 ..m1

]78, :,;,4

20:1, !'.Iii 2!D,777 2:17,0118 2:14,-">'\l
2i:l,4~1 2H~,Gl2

w, ~,-,(r
12, 111

i-!,(12tl n, li!J7

2n;;,f'la7
314, 0:1'3 332,7i'l2

1a,1':17 15, 1:1;1 '
16,508

I

:ito,973 3:30, 106
3'9,809

I

i:-,,210 16, 71111
18,218

2:;1,r,5;1 2rni, 201 2~7, 447 :J< (i, 2!ll :J'2i'i,7:1:l :J4\ ii4
3\lti,413

11, :l(i7 12,fиt'4 1:l, i'l~r, 15, \172
lll,74fl HJ, 318 19,!J::l2

l:!, :m:1 J:1, 7:!G J!\IY>
].~,

1:1, 4::;:;
14. r\!JI) lt) 1 t:Hi J'l, 078 JH, ~'27

:31:!, 4:11

lti,t):-,,:.; :!iO JH, !J"I

33;z,!lrn
:'!Ci4,0W 37;,, H:l2
!l!!tl, 2lil

21, (j.~t

21, 7!JG

2:!, GG4

210, :1:,7 2:!иl, Iii \!Hi, 01)0 2\il, 11:.!4 Q;~:J, 8Ga :lll:l, 777 :1~1, :in; ;14~, ~~I ,J(j,' и){I 3!111, rnr, 4J:l, 47'1

7, 2~>1 8, 2:1>i \l, :ll'l JO, 474

Iii!!, liH IHI. !II.Ii>
2111. :3!!4
2lc', 4()1

"rj

0
pj

2:\!i,2'7

11, 7:l0 1:1.11142 14,;.;11
Iii, l!!\il 17, 7;,:~ l!l,fi:l7 21, llli

2:-.1: ri1:~

2n,0:1; 2n:i, !ll>l :!14, ;,,><,f :i:!.\!lllti
~J;'░>i' !);,?()

m

c."
w

~:J, "'~~ 2;,,f>;->o

:l.'011,tiW 4114, OliG 4.:!H, J~:.3

-l

* ""' 0

TABLE Y-B.-C'o-ordinates of curvature for eacli degree of longitude, d:c.-Coutinued.

I-'

00

0

's

~

-----------------------------~---

I~

~~
o

------ ---- -- ________ _
x.
Metres.

Lntitucle 21░.

-i--1,atitude 25░

Lt1titude иzt;o.

J,atitmle 2j0. I

y_
I

x.
и----1
I:

x.
J
5
JI)
tre."l. :~:2

i
l
6

Y.

x.

--1-;и
Mctrtw.

--1-;-r- -;- - -,-~~
Metres. 1 7
2~
1

L11tiluifo 2iP.

Lacitu<le 290.
Y.. ,---

Latltu<lo

3~".

*

~-- и1

Y.

_ _ _, _ _ _ _
llfdres.

---- ------

1 i
3 '
5

1
5

MctTls. 3l>l I, 44:J

!tfdrn.

Metrи"'и

:l.'3
J, :lJ

4i'9
.:~,o O~ll

17 41
80
\lи~o

;J, \!Ml 5, i78
9, ll~tl

2 11

3,H7
Ii, 127 9,fJjt

Metres. 1 6 2\

:m:i

Metres, 411:J
1 lil\l

'Metres.
7 21

44
Hfi

и :lll7

47 92
1~╗8

a,и,:m
fi,291
9, R:l!I

1,57:l

.i

I
I

llfctrrs.,
41-.l ], 64\! 3, 710

1

.

GO g7
108

&:l 10:1

G. 447

3:6~G

r,r;
]()!) 11-1.'j

I
1

I

Jrlctres. J 7

Metres.
421

2;;
f>9

6
7

J&l

J:l, I 011 17, 6ll~>

148
!Hi>

401
:HI rl"lS t5:l :Wl

J:l. il"(j
18, ;G;> 24, ,,1:9 31, 11211 3-4, и29G
46, :}.l8

8

10
1J U
13

9

3и!8
4(ii

2:!, 112
2H, 251

:J5 I
1\011 (;g;; 9it J, l~G 1,5118 I, и81

2;,1 a75

2G7
3'!!}
5~~

H,r1t W, 2GG
25, lli4 :JI, Hl8
3\l, 319

mi

2H:l 42:1
6'12
s~.1

10, 07'.l 14,50(j J!J, HI
2\7~i-3

20!)

5:u
nil 97;,

44G
(l;j(l

I I

I

6, 5~~5 JO, 31 15
H,R:l(t 20, l!lil
~.W,

J, Git 3, 71'!1 6,i;l5
Jll, &24
~и ..

~

Jlfi 198
315
470

M 'Ii

Jci, 1:и.t ti27

0
i:'j

:JRll

641
8.;3

36, I I\!
43, G9tl

77H

1, 1U7
J,408 1, 7Б19

52,001

61,mw
70, 7811 RJ,'2!'i\!

14 15 16

и 044 '6'1(i !ll:1 ,9M
, 75D 300 ,614 ';J87

1,2116
1,(j 9

2,0!0
2,47~

5\ l:tO Ill, 72:1 7',,11611
8d, JhG 9:l, li:!7 J IO, fi7.1 124, ll7rl 13:-!, 217 ] Ci:!, ll';l Jfi8, 881 lHfi, :'!f,I
20~. &84

I, 037 J, 316 1, 711 2, 137
2,62()

47,575
5G, filS

] и ,_l!I!)

J,12ti

I'

:Jи!, G:l"i 411,291 41", 7;;5 Grl,OU
(i,.i, O!),j

en
1, Hil l, 507 1, 916 2, '.'9:1 2, rlt:l
3,[>71

!J.l, :i~.~ 41,21\) 4!1, i:ii;j

w,1:,r,
6!),(J(Jl)

6fi,4B
77, lllil BS. 415G ton, HG5

I, Bl:J 2.26:,
2, 78G
:~.:rit

2, lli3 2, iH5
;!, 149 3, i;l8

92, 447
104, :~1H

2,:J!7 2, 8 Ill
:J, :lN 4, 00;.1

3, (1()0

~I ~2

*'

17 18 19

I 17, 003

'и8~

3,600
4, "<7:.l G, 11:!4

4, :mG
5, l\!7

J:ltJ, :li>-l
144, 449

4, 7il8
5, 4 1f.l 6, :3;,7 7, :Iii!)
i<,

5, Y:lti
ll, 821

15'.1, 254
174, 78\!

23
24 25
2~

7, 793
8, 86:1 JO, 014

HJ!, 03:3
2:Jt!, 005 \!2и), 700

:!52

9, 49 I HI, i2<l

26 27

1J,:W1 H, 615
1~,nmi

29 31J

1;;, IHI
17, :1114 HJ, ll!l:3 21, IH)[
23, n:31

2"1, 117 26:1, 257 2d:l, 1rn 303, 7112
3i:l, 008 347, O:lll 3ti9, 787 :w:i, l!flO 417, 455 41:J, 37:.l

J2,16:> 13, :.i2
J5,l'fi9
11~, ;,:i:; \!O, 450 2i, ~9! \14, rimi 2tl, !JS! 20, 43~

'91)6 167 'li6 918 4'.l4 '663
'()f>l

5,86:) 6, 71'l4

3, l!JO 3,Bn 4,512 G,:Hil (), 2:ll
7,213 fl, 'l!J3

in,1;:10
1~7,

:H;J

7,800
8, 912 ltJ, I llfl 11,445

9,47()
10,7fi7 H, lill 1:l, 689

'3il

Hi, 7 H

. sr,u

U,Bi4 14, 418

, ll74
,ll:ltl

Hi,1>tlO 17, 86;)
19, 778

2211, 5A3 \!:l9, 343 2:)8, 87., 27il, 170 31JO, \!:hl
3t2,06G

141, il40 l!i7,273 17:1, 3!H J90, 3110 2111, 9 11.l 226, 47:3 2-1\ i3:l
235, 7():!

4, 115f"l 4, 814 5,Gf;J 6, lill3
7,fiU 8, ;.;!)

97t'J 9 '. 6.iO 10:1, 1:, I J Ill, 447 l :J 'и flf)() 14:1, 4;,}j

7~,

4, <!84

fi,mm
fi, !lBI fi, !)76 8, 07f1

80, 7~!) !H, 74:1 111;,, 5'.ll J I!), 102:{
1:11, ;,;,11

5,:-mn
fi, \!!)!) 7, :l17 8, 511;, 9, 77!) 11, 174
12. Wti 14,:WJ

60:1 $}If:\ I, \!2:l I, 5il7 2,1118 2, !"'>"JO 3, 100 3, 71J:l 4Jd:l

26, !HI 34, OfJ7

"'3
0 ""J

42,0\!G
511,93~

fill,617

..,

71, IH

::i:1
M
00 ~

8:!, :,116
!JI, 714

1

107, i(i.l J:H,6G5 i:m, :lid

"Ii
t>i
~ .... ~ ,..,

Iii I, 17:1

rn;., orn

177,U\t~

11', CGG JI. 410
12,897
1 1, f>H7
1

J5,:no

17, 11117
J~. 99~
I

:U
3:!
33

, 7Hi '199
, :J!lfi

21, H2J
\!4,1)113
\lfl, :12t 1!8, 791

34 35

23, l!JIJ 21. 478

I

,:3:17 ,OH

31, 4U6

314, 660 3G-l, O<!I 3'll, 147 411, o:ig 44иl, 697 469, 121

21,uim 23, ~03 2G, i)\!~
27, !l!Jll 311,61;)

I
I'

33, 3~4

I '

I
I

286, 63U 3 <S, 2~>5 3:io, 667 3f,:i, 8G;i 377, 8Hl 4112, 6:!11 42~, 17H 451, r,211 4dl, 649

111, 2rn 18, I l!J
211, 1:!11
22. \!"iii

21:1, 1r.1 2:l-.!, 089 2;,1, 8!13 2U, :*lиi 2ffl, 7:l-3 315, H'.19 :1:l8,8GG
:m~.1n1 !1~7.218

9,284 JO, fl IP
12, Of)4

141", 8111 161, 877 181,777 19'.J, 5111 21R, o;,o
~'.l7,

Jfil, !)6:J
JfiK, :1--111
i~.:-,,c;:m

~ll~l.
\!Qи~.

741)

l"J
~

El

13, G24 JG, :1~5 17, Hiи!

2fi7,6~0

278, 6H :Jll0,4148
3~:i,

19, HI 21, \!6!)
23, 542

mo

16, 111 lrl, 07(} 211, 160
2~. :J91l

6-):3 \H2, 4frl 2ft~, O!it ~84, 56:3
:1rn;, 873 3:lll,026

tl

z

t'1
>-3

:iu;,f;r,4

3:,4, fl]\)
!~7~. H~G

370,973
!lWi, 117
41!~, os:; 448,i'li7

21,

5~!)

2:;, fl76
2P,('17~

24, 7!1fi 27, 3;,!)
3\1,llll:l

:!7,0tli
\!H, fjfiJ 3<!, 44 l 33, 3tl!)

41-.!,l>!l:J 4:1~. 79:l

31' :l'J;)

a:i. 0114

41l4,f>;J4 4:i1, or):l 4G"l,416

4ti\ 790 49J, fJ!l:J

:11. 271 :11,:kJ;)

I

4itl, 1\!t [;04,93'1

3fi, 0!)6

3lJ, :37'1

486,Gl9 5JG,665

TABLE V-B.-Co-ordinatcs of curvature for each degree of longitude,

d':c.-Continu~d.

.... .;

1

. Lntitudu 310 .

-r~~~~~tl
x.
111ctres.

Je 32░ .

Latitude 330.

&.Д

'Q

и

Latitude 340.

Latitude 3'>''.

Latit11<1o

:J(jO_

Latitud11 370.

---------1- -----и- -----

x.
Metre!I.
1 H

Y.
,~fetus.

Y.
1"1ctres. 4:37
], 74-3 3,!J:H G,!J91 10, f)8:1
irи>,7.:!~

x.
Metr.s. l

Y.

---Mdrrs.

Y. x. Y. ----- - - - - - - ----1------'

x.

x.
Jlfctres.

Y.
lUcrrcs 4ti2 l,8511 4, Hi2
7,:l\l\l 11,fit;J

x.
l'lfetrc~.

Y. 0
n:J
llfdиt.и. 4C>d ], 870 4,'.107 7, 47fl 11, ll~G
~

- - - ----I JO 3:J 76
149 2r,r.

1Udr<1Ф.

2li
62 121

4t9 1,717 3,8u3 6,8fi7 10, 7;311
15, 4''1

1
A 27 6G 126 218

44!
1, 77() 3,!J97 7, }0()

8
2~

l 9
311
70

Metre<. 4:,1 I, 811:1
4, 057 7,21!!

llfefr,s.

Metres.
4:;7 ],H27

....,

l 9 :ll
7:3 11'.l
\!17

I
][)

4, 112

6il
t:I:!

7,:mi
J 1,4'!2
H'i, .J4R
~n:B7

208
3:H

21, 0:31
27, 469 31, 765

4f)4 70::1

:m

2J9
31;-~

l I I l

Oi)f)

], 2:!1 J,ll67 2, 119

42, 920 51, 93:J

(>17 7:16 1, Oil
1, :H5

21,40f) 27, ()6:J

3\ 391 4:1, 6!Jи~
52,~f)~

5-111 76\)
1, o;.5 1,4и15

1:,, ~l~~ 21, 7fi2 28,42-1
:ir., \l74 44. 412

11, rn:J

1:17

23;
377 5ri:.i

JI, 26!1 JG, 228 2-J, 1188
2~.
~u;,

:lHZ
flH;} 8:U

4J7
fl07 81)5

802
1, JOI]
1,461
l,!J!ll

84!! 1:~ 4;,, 077

r,

2n,:w1

I

10,nn
2~,Gr1!)

1, 14:)
I,;,~~

4:;, (i,~ij
r~fl, ;t~~ ()~,. 7\lil'

:o' 0117

1,

1.~H

29,W:i :li' 4:,c; 4fi,2t:J

3:1 7!) 1r-:1 2f\5 421 62.-; t'!))

H

16,8U
22, !JO:J 29, !>i!i

d 2: ,...
H

....,
~

1, ~'.!7
] и (l:lt

fl:J, 7:313

f11, f>:l4

61, 805
72,il:lii

J 1
}

I 1

2,IH7 ;-t,2S;} 3,lm 4,ng 5,625
6,GIG

84, 12:1 ru;, 570 ltl9,8i5
124,038

1:m, P611

1 20 21
~~

1:..1, lHl
171, l\7!1 J..;fl, 2iG 2ll7,73;!

I, 746 2,2иw 2, 7i2 3. 410 4, 1:;~ 4, !JG3 5,8HJ H, !IJll

G:t, fll7 7:1,HtO s:,, 6:17 11 l, s;,:1
9rl, :l!IH ,

1, 8~1 2,:319 2,8;)6
:l, 5flt

. 6:1,!Jii:j 7fi, {).)Ii 87, 017
99, 917

2,4Hl
3,0lrl

(j4, !JI I 7li, ld:I 8-l, 3;,1
1111, 4t1 11:,, 3!),,, 1:11, 27:) 141), o;,o 1112. 7:/!J l>-lO, :lи !J HH. i!ll ~I~, 174 2:l~. 4.>!J
2и~1n,

J, !176 2, rt12
!l, !:l8 :1. ti:i!) 4, Iii-It

I, f>iD 2, 04:1
2 1 f}OG 3, ~r;4
~.

rrn, mo
78, liil
!l'l,fi'.lti 104, IJ<l7

r5, u,->4

:l7, HGJ 4ii, 74-J 5G, flи~иi3
(i7~ :Ji1H
7~\~t~q

rtJ. ....,

2, 1:!1
2,fi!)7
:~, :~f)~

ti>
>--3

77, 212
8'1, [>4и'
111~.

M
rtJ.

!II, ti 1-1

:l,712
4,f>(J:;

7!l8

J26,2il
141, fi6:1 157, no li4, 770
19~.

4, :1~1 fi, 1~5
(), lf>l)

11:1, m11
J~s.:r,o

J lfi, 91)[
1:1-2, 0:1il

oo:i
M~Ji-1

4, IU
!), 0:!7

4,

5,401
6,414
7,:.4t 8,7!19 ]f), 18и)

7, 7rn
8, 9:12

H,OB2
9,:i:Jfi
lll, 7:,7
1~.

7,2'.N 8, 44:1

mo, :ii;

14:),,.\fJt

G,GIS ti, 66\) 7,8J'.l
9, 1и17 Ji1Jifi9 h!, Iii) 1:3, \112 F>,8117 17,1"!6 i 2 >, 1;~)1 ;!иl,filll)

rnc1, o:n
ll"i:I, 7ii2

1.J~.1129

G, 1~27 6,!.lli

I 1.i, :1и'~ 1:n, ti~:!
14!1, Hи!7 Jf.G, :rn 1~4. !li:I 211:1, !l:l!

Jllf">. ltiO 11'1. Go1!J

n

6,lr).)

1:r,, oll4

6"3

n,;n

1n,H47
Jlfi, 8iifi 214, 9~,;; 2ll, !l:l!l ~r)r,, H1~ 277, 574 31Jll, 22:1 3!:l, 702

n..1H:-1
]II, !l.-1;)

8, l:lc>

7. l'иR H, 117 !J,l'l!l
I I, ;ir,7

J:il.4U
Hiи, 7:!" .

>Ul
>--3

0

10,27[)
11,1a:> 1:1,:ru 15,071 16,9:>2 Ji3, !ld5

2
2
2

2:J7, 046
217,218

:wi

26
27

2B 20
JO

21,17:$
23,'12~

2fJM, 219 29'), 138 :u2, 8% a:m, иi91

1:1, !lfi6 Ji>, 78ii 17, 7fi(J 1!l, f<H:J

211,471 2a1, 1:13 2:,1, m;-;
27:!,077 2!)~.. :lfl!J :ll~, Git!

11,-l:B 12,811
14, G'IO
16, 4:ll
Ir!, 51\J

l!,ill

1:1, :i~~ 1r1, 205
Ji, 18)

2111, иIHI 2~1. 1:)1) 211, 6~'.)
2ti'.t, lliиl

11'<,i, \l(\7 \!llli, l :;J
217, 2ti4

tn

I<!, ti~!) It, 1:111
lfi,:l'l:J
lti,!>:11

~'!~\, ~и 211, fi:l~'

╗

1:J,llil1i l l, !l:ll
JIJ,!J1i.~

:an, no
~!!)!), !,!;t~

r.

~

w,:n1
21,tWl 21, IH
2r:, H-JI

61;> 281, i:l:l 31~, iU
:u~,HI:{

~1;13,:WO

<l H
>1
"1

r1r-)O :J'IH,1'.">I)
~M:-,,

21':1, ll'lll
:H:J,(i!I~

22, 177
21, n:i<J 27, 277

:142,51'l

::1611, 0-iG
:J-~ii,

26, 04и~
28,7:11 31,611() 31,662 :!7,!J!U

2iH

3 3'J 33
3-l 35

412, и16'! 4:Jn, 4:1!)
4ti7, ;197
4~5.

a:t, ooo
3:1. 104

3i), :106

l"'l

:n, 1117

:JG7, 4ii:I :1J:I, 2:1и~ 41P,884 417, 410 47G,810
(;1}\0'31
u:;5,~:u

2'1, 774 ij:J, Hi!I \JC., 7til
2rt, 4~)!)

:u:i,nr,:;
a.-,~. 1!J.J :Jи-11, :,?:J', 411, l!ll

2 Ht."", 2:1,:111
1 ),

J!J, 17/'l 2J, :'17:)
~4, 1~1~)
;w,~1.u ~~J,

31'3, lr:'i.I 37:l,Gll4 :3cJ!I, 707
421i,7'.J8
4',.l, 777

:iи.:i, 401.i

2:;,

JI)()

21),
2~.

11:).:-,

:w:t,rd:)
:~~,...;,

:l:li, II I

:mi,
41il,

100

27, K'\7

2!!,!NG
:l!, 76G

40;,, 1)\)7

:ll, 412 31,

,,.,4

41:1, 1n:1
;-,:1~

-----~---_J_____

41, 3fi4

f>2.\ 76>:!

43, 315

37, 9~8 41, 1'2 4ii, 251

4>;:J,!il5
51 :~. lilt

:n,04rJ :lH, f,".!,)
4:l, 2и!!)

4!Jil, f-11'1! и 5:?1, ml:1
[1:J2, 19d

I
I

:l!I, 87:l :11, (llit :37, 41ir-l 41,Wll
41, '.Ill

91.-) :)'.!, 02J
a~,,:ni

!)Ot

и116, lti7
441, :!!l:l 1\i;J, ~.(!~
[)!);{, f}tl()

!):t-) ;;;), ] If)

4:J!l, 1)61 41i7, 91 I

;H),[)fH)

2!12, 1:lli ~t.J, tl74 :Jiii, 741' ~)t iii~ ,1 ;)(j :l!J3, Ofl!I 4-J "liifl 4~il, J и!)

0
~
CD

4:n, ;,.u
fJ-2и~-

Kli:I 4t, li!I

:l~,

511, O!ii

47, JGlj

иl:l, O:.!ii

i:l2 5~1!l, {)77

41i, (il4
[ill, 84'.l

:):u. :>70
o>Go, 477

411, <!!!) 44, Ill!) 4ri, 21'l f╗2, (jl~)

4i:-', ti:lG
f>ll!J, 1118
fllO,

w

~

:nr.1

fl7'l 1 f1M7
---~

I-'

0

*

(,o

TABLE \--r..-Co-ordinates of curvature for each degree

ef

longit11de, cfc.-C<>ntinucd.
43░,

1--<
i--<

il!-L r ;--1-,J- 'o

~-!--Latitude 38░. ии-r--~~titudo 3\~-.--l-----:~~:~--~--l--~;i~~1~41u~--;--- Latitude
и - - - -1 ----I '
Metreи.

42;---r и-и;~:~uae l-~atit~~--.~~-.Y. i --x:и--1 y---- ---~--. T-:--Y. -и-- --~~ ----;.- 1- x. -i---Y._[ --;:Y.

0

*

__ I

o 1lfetru. 1 1 1 2 10 3 34 4 ,1 Al 5 i ms {j 274 7 I 43.; 8 i 649 9 1 925 1011,267 ll J,687 12 \ 2, 190 1.3 ~и 78:i 14 3, 478 15 4, 278 16 5,111'..! 17 6,2:J7 1s 1,:w2 8, ll94 19 20 10, 1411 i 21 I 11,73-l 2'.l : 13, 496 23 15,422 24 17, 52-J 25 191 8% 26 22, 278 21 ~U,947 28 27,82!

I I

~

I Mtиtrcs..

I----m
Metres.

Melre.и.

Jlet.eи. 1,91(\ 11, :111 7,1\\l;\ 11,m-1 Ji,24:.! 2:i, 409 :w, fif,3 :i~. 7K> 4i,tl9f1 57,95:1 f.8, 9o9 8~), 9!2 !J3, tl14 1117, 764 122,6ll l:lH,416 1;;;;,1so 1i2, 901 1\ll,580 211,217 2'.ll, 811 2f>:.l,364 21.-,, 875 2!1!!,34:! 32:3, 770 319,154 375,4!lfi 402,196 431, oG4 4fi0, 2. 70 490,444 521,:;7(; 55:1, 6GG f186, 713

I

I

29
3!1 ~l 32 33 34 35

3n,91a

I

I
!

34, 223 37, 7ti0 41,534 4:i,551 40, BIS 54, 344

l,i'R7 4, 247 7,ii49 ll, 791; ]ti,\l8{j 2:1, 1~0 311, W::l :38, 21!l 47,l84 57,0!J2 67, 944 7?, 741J 92, 4bl) J(l6, 1G4 120,790 J3H,361 rn2,sn 170, 33:1 188,735 208,08l 228, :IBf) 249,flO<! 211, 778 294,898 3I'l, !l62 34:i,969 36H,9Zl 396,815 424, 554 45'.J. 436 483,162 51:l,831 545, 444 me, 001

3, ,18" 4, 408 5,3[i0 G,417

~и ~7?

1 10 ;15 84 Hi3 282 448 G69 952 1,306 I,7:l9 2, 2'17

1,n1s

I

8, 9;,9 lll,4.>0 12,1>!17 13, !JOS 15,892 J8, 0:,7 20,409 22, 958 2G,7JO 28,674 3t,857 35, 267 3.~. 913 42,801 46,940 51, 339 Go, ooa

1,!JO:! 4, 2.:i1 7,fitl 11,1092 17,125 2a, :i11e 30, 444 38, ;,:m 47,568 57,558 68, 491'! 80, :J?O !l.l, 2.l4 107, O:l!l 12l,775 137,472 154, 121 и 171, 722 190,273 209,776 2:m, 2:m 1!51,U:lfl 2n, fl!J3 297,302 3'tl, 5G2 346,773 372,!l3fl 400,049 428, 114 47>~. 1:31 '\81,0\J9 518,019 ii49, 889 r.m, 711
1

rns

1 11 31i 86

m

Metre.и.

2911 4r,2 688 9;9 l,:343 1,788 2, :J~I .3, 6,,;6 4, 534 5,502 tl,6lli)

~и ~~l

1,s:n
9, 21() 10,744 12,440 14, 301 16,341 18, 570 20,989 23, l>IO 26,440 29,488

32,iu2
36, 269 40, 018 44,017 48,274 G2, 798 57, 594

4, 3:l5 7,706 12,041 17,339 2:1, noo 30, 824 1, oo;; 39, 012 1,:m1 48,Hi:J l,83:i 58,278 2, 3t'2 69, :ir,r, 3, ~~i) 81, :JOO 3, I u3 !J4, 40() 4, 6~3 108, 367 5,G47 J2:l,293 6,i74 13.'l,192 s,o.u l:,G,1w1 9, 457 173, 8li9 11,11::10 lH'J,oo:J 12,m., 212,400 14, G~l 233, 110 ll3,775 254,784 .u:i, o;:;!J 21и, 420 21,542 301,020 24, 2:12 325J>84 21,rn1 3;,1,110 30,26fi :m,Goo :iJ,mw 40;;,053 37, 226 433, 4U9 4!и 0~4 462, 849 4.>,118 493,191 49,(>'17 524,49tl M, 190 556, 767 ~9, i_1_3_. __ 5-9t_>._oo_o__

1 11 37 R8 n2 29и 47:l 7llG

I

- - - -1 '----- ------1-----1----,1fetres.
Mииfrrs.

Metrc.s.
l,~127

m

I

1 ll 38
~J

li7 3ll5
4~4

72:3 1, 030 1,112 1,fl8il 2, 440
3, 8m 4, 7U7 5,785 6,0:lO 8,237 9, Q,i7
11,'W~J

~и l~.):

l:J,Otlll 15, 0:!8 17,18и1 rn, :w4 22,0Gl'l 24, R:.!:l 21,Rnr, :n,0113 34.445 :IB, i:i~ 42. ~)It 46,279 r.ll,7[)1 55, 5m) 60, 553

l,\l:\fi 4, 3:;4 7,740 12,o\1a 17,414 2:1, 1o;i 30, !Ji1\l 3!l, 102 48,:li:J 58,fi:ll Gil, lii'>7 81' 750 94, 81 l 108, 8:l\J 12:l,8:l5 и13\l,7!18 156,728, 174, G:.!G J!):l,4!)2 213,:JиJ[, 2'.l4, 12f> 255,89:1 271', 62'> :102,:1:11 327, 001 :1:,2,6:1\} 379.241 411.i,s16 4;i;;, :lii6 46~. F<'..l} 49,,,3,lJ . 52G,781 sr,9, Hll 592, 568

w

lj

1'rfetre.и.

иI 12
!J~

I

I

llfиfres.

~

Metres.

111.tres.

3!J
11m

1, ori:l l,444 l,!UZ 2, 4().-,

312 49'> 739

~и ,1~2

3,..16~

! 8~. ()()~ fl,>, 101

'

1,9H 4, :m1 7,7H4 12, 1J1 l7,4(i!J 2:i, 777 31, 050 39, :>04 48,524 58,il:J 6\), R74

1 12 4il 94 184 318 505 754 1, 074 1,474 J,!JGl 2, ╗4li
4, 04,I 4, !>73 u,!136 7,240 s,r11H 10, !07 11,785 l:l,l>4fi lG, G!IO
li,~2!)

~
~

:i, 2:J~

1,945 4, :mi 7,779 12, 1:,4 17,M>2 2:1, tl;.!2 31, 114 39, :no 48,GJ;; 58,82;; 70, 00()
s,:и ~~f) ifa, 2и~6

M
"C

0
l:;:I

1-3 0
~

1-3

i::::

M

4, K7:J 5,fllt 7,004 8,4'..!l U, !104 ll,GG2 l3,3i2 15, :m; J7,5G9 rn, uG1 22,562 2:i, :J79 2H,42l 31,fi!)H :iri,211 :is. 91:!7 ,l~.l. 0.1~
41,3W

I
I

fil,8903 56, 7;,3 ti!, mu

1119, 178 121,221 140,;J:H 1╗7,211 175, 171 194,0IJ3 213,990 234, 855 25fi,6'.JI 27iJ, 4:1; 3fl:l,27:l 32,, 021 a:;:i,1:18 380,4\!f\ 4os,os5 4:16, 714 31~ 4.l(i,883 528,424 (',(\(), 9:34 rm, 416

JO!), ;is;; 124,4:;[) 140,.W!) F17,514 175.'>02 HJ4,462
214,3~14

c:
~

rn

"C

M

.....

2: ....;

4?1:.

20, 3'70 '23,024 25, 89!! 29,004 :12,:1n 35,H:l8 3~1. 7tlti 4:i. ~~.~?
4.~.28"

!i2,!J05 57, 91() 6:!, 178

2:{[" 2\l\l 2!'i7,17G 280, 025 :Jfl:l,846 :J21', ll40 :1:>4,407 3:01,145 41J8,S36 4:11, 53ll 4~7. 497,822 529,422 5GI, !)!)4 ,_ __s_H_"_и 5-39

z

t:j

t1 M

~

1-3

rn:

TABLE V-B.-C'o-ordinates of curvature for each degree of longitude, &c.-ContinueJ.
и---ии-

"" .; "" = 'Q, = g.$

Latitude 45░ .

Latitude 46░.

Latitude 470,

Latitude 48░.

Latitude

4()0.

Latitude ::;oo.

x.
1-----

y_

x.
llfctres.

Y.

x.

и
Y.
llfelrcs .
4~G

x.
Mttrcs. 2 13

Y.

x.
ltlelrrs. 2 13
43

i

~

- - - - ---- --------- - - - - lffctrcs.

l
~

3
I
~

6 7 B 9 0

Metres. 2 12 41 96 188 324 515 768 1,094 1,501

и'lfdrcs.

486 l,H46 4,378

2

7,784
12,162 17,513 23,837и 31, 135 39,405 48,648

12 41 98
191 330 523 781

486 1,!145 4, :176
7, 780 12, 105 17,504 2:!, t:~4 :ll, 118 3fl, 383 48,621 G8, s:n 711, 014 f:l2, 170 ()5,298 109,397 12-1, 470 140, 51il 157,5:!2 175,ii22 194, 4H1 214, 4lfl 2:l5, 32(i 257,)J:l6 280, 058 :303, 882 3и!8, 679 3;)4,448 3131, 190 408,904 4:l7, 590 467,'l49 497, 880 5:!!1, 4rJt 56:!,060 5%,G09

Metres. 2 I:.! 42

lllctrcs. 4P1

I i

Y.
llfctrrs.

I

x.
J.tltlrts.

l_Y_.
I I
0

4il2
l, ~:!7 4, 3:37 7, 710 12,046 17, ;i.17 2:1, 611

'
i

llfrtrn.

l, 941
4, 31j8 7,765 12, 134 17,47:3 2:J,782 31, 062 :l9, a1:i 4R,533 Gf:!, 727 69,890 82, 024 9;,, l:l!J 111!),204 U4,2!ill 1411, 2tlG

], \):JG

42
100 l:J6 319

4, :1:J5
7,743 12,0D8 17, 4'.!0 2~l, 71 l :~ 1, !lfi!) :l'.l, 1!16

9!) I!H a35
5:11 i!):J 1,lW 1,;,4g 2, tWl 2, 676 3, 41i:J
4,2;,o

r,:li:l

]1)2 ]ll8 3и1:1

2 13 4:3 102 200
:H6 !140 820 ], 16:3 ], !i02 2, i:lиJ 2, 75.~ :l,5W

479
1, !ll7

..,
::::1 M
~ ,.._, >-3

>rj

4,3l3
7,nti8 11, !!81 17, 2fJ2 ' 2~, 4S:l :l0,tl71 3t<, Hl7 47,!m r,7, ~)87 69,00() 80, !lH!l 9'.l, !l'.l!l 1117, 826 122, 6~2 1:l~, 4!l7 li>f>, 270 ]7:1, 001 Jfll,tl91 211, :wi 2:ll,!H7 2~>3, 511 2ifi,035 2~[), 517 :1иl:l, %8 :w1,:1:,1 :11;;, 7J.I 40:1, o:m

d

541
fll2

1, 113
1, 5-J6 2,031 2,637 3,353 4, 188 fi, lf>O 6,251 7,4'17 8,900 10, 4(J7 12,20fl 14, ia:i 16, 2r,o li'I, 568 21,097 23,845 26,822 31J,03il 33,500 !ii,220 41,204 4\ 4!l:3 50,006 54,843

1
2 3

1,998

58,864
70,053 82,215 95,350 109,458 1:24,539 140, 592 157,619 175,619 194,592 214, 53:J 235,456 257,347 280,212 304, 049 328,860 354,643 381,400 409,129 437, 831

2,594
3,298 4,119 6,066 6, 148 7, 374 8, 753 )0,295 12,008 13,900
15,98~

'
5
~
~
~

B

li,2'27 G, ~1.4
7, (i!O

1

!l,0:1:1
10,(J-H

1:i7,2fi2
17G, 21\.! ]!J.J, 140 214, 040 2:14, !Jiii 2G!i,750 27!), 5li2 311:1, 314
a2~.

HO:l l, 141 1, (i(j!) 2, 081:l 2, 711 3,4-17 4, ;)l)(j 5,2Dti 6,427 7,70ll !J, Jfi2

:io, e:m

M

1, l'i7.
1, fiP7 2, 112

4H,3UO
f,rl, r>r)2 Ii!), Gi'll 81, 77!)
llt,HH

J0,7C2
1'!, r,;,;i

l 2 3

4
5 6 7 8 9 0 l 2 3 l 5

18,262 20,749 23,452 26,381 2!J,543 32,949 36,607 40,526 44,715 49, 183 53, 940

12,:w1 14,3H Hi, 4!12 18,tJH 21, 411 24,200 27, 222 ;Jll, 4Rri 34, 000

H,ii31

rn, 10H

]IH,R77 l\!:3, 878 l'.) 11, 847 1r.6, 1.s:~ lil,6"1-l J!):l, r,;,!) 21:i, :mn

2,742 a, 400 4, :i;,4 fl, :J~,5 6,4!J!l
7, 706

3!1,0:ll) 48, lt'\ll GS, :mr, m,:387 81,4:H

I

t:I w
~

..,
>-'.! tT:l

!14, 444
JO", 418 ]2:l, :1:,;, J:lll, 2;;7 l:,1i, 122
17:!,!J:JI)
w~,743

4, :!9.i r.,40G 6, c1til
7, 87l)

w

c
0

!l, 204 111, f;.Y4 12,ml.J 14,G!J;;
lG,H!lfi l\J, :Mi

u,:H2
10, !l~7

w ...,
Ul

>

12,HIG

2:1t,'lll7
~~~;,, n,~~

O(l7

HI, OGI 21, (ifll ili,!il7 27, fиi8
~lj,

212,4fll) 2:1:.1, 21!l 25'1,!.lll2

H,иnt Ii, o:,r,

Cj i;",j
~

rn, 4sn

a:;:1, 1321
3'50, 515 408, 1811 ,t:Jfl,81G 4fiG, 422 4'.lG,n!l!J 52R,'i47 fifil, on:. r,!H,G5!i
- -------и-----

a11, H."3и'1
'JH8

27tl, i2G :rn2, ,1:i1 3n, 116 3:--,2, 7G2
:m1,377

21, !J:l(i 21, 7!l:l 27, 813!)
a1,2:i~

277,GGO
:Jill, Hil
32G, 7:{;> 3:;1, 27-1 :iii, 77ti

22, Jt4

M

2:;, 028 2', 1;.:1 :11, '"2'}
~i:;,

><:

":I 0
t;j

:l7, 77,j

34,44!
4;:, 30::>
46,7-14 r.t, 416 f>G, :1.+l 61, nil 67, '171
-----и-и'

4111), 9_-,9
4:1\Ml!J
4n~,.

:.11,8:13

3"',700
42,Ht:l 47,272 fi1,!JB:> ::-.;, 024 Gt, :lll7

467,5(16
498, 155 529,77fl 5Gt, 370 w:;, 937

41,l:Htl 4ri, 141 50, 702
5G, G60

oz1

40:,, 24'..! 4:1:J,G71 41;:l, OG4

:l!l, ()67

rn:i

.....
00

4!l\:iH
[dfl,!ltl() iif1!), :157 ~,!J:~, 77fl
-----

49:1, 422
!)24,742 u.'ii, 02G f1!)il, 2iS
----и

58, 9!13

fi9,mH
65,-131

64,354

611,875 fiH, 1%
~-~---

(H, 0:1:1

4:1, 2t9 47, 7211 i>Z, иISH r}7, r)r,;; fi2, rl:it' fi-1, (i/,-1
- ----.-

4:n,:1n;,

:;1

4G(),fi38 4!10, 7'!9

░'░

[>21, 879

5r-1a, HM7 r,;;:1, 0:,4
------~

и-------- -и----

---

-и

-- -

- -- ------- - -----и-и----иии

f--l

I--'

TABLE VI.-Projection Ta/Jlea, !Jivin1 latitude and l.itud11 aro, and co-ordinatu of curvature, f1'om latitude 24░ to latitude 50░.
J,ATITUDE 240

,.... ,.....
I:..!>

00'.
~-~---------и-----------

*

-------

Length in metres of arcs parallel, (arc par.)

Min.
7"

----~-

---------- - - --------~---и--ии~------- и----~~~--- -

- -------- -----()()"

I

Co-ordinateи of curvature. Meridional arcs.

8"

9"

10''

20"

30''

40''

GO''

---------------------------i Minutes of X. Y.
lm1gitnde. Arc. par.

- - - - ----------- I
O' l 2
I
197.8и

.

200.l
6.1

7.8 7.8
7.8

6.0

254.3 4_ 3 4. 3
Cl

282.6 2.li
2.5 Vi

4 6

7. 7
7. 7

6.0 6.0 5.9 221'.9
5.9 5.9

565.2 fl. I 5.1 5.0

847.A 7. 7

и 1130. 4
0.3 0,2
(I, 0 11"9.!l 0. 7

I

1413. 1

7.6
7.5

4.2 4.2
254.2 4.1 4.1 4. I

2.5 2.4 282.4
:?.4 2.3

4.9 4. 9 564.8
4.7

2.9 2.7 2..5
2.
:~

16%.66 f1. 44
f,. 2a !i,lll

7.4 7.3
847.2

l" 2 3 4

30.8
61, 5

92.3
12a.1
153.8 184.6 21fi.:l 246. l

l' 2

-.0
и0
,() ,()

.1

3
4 5

.4
.9

~ trj

"d

4. 79

1. (i
2,!\

0
tTj

2.1
1412. 0 I. 8 l. 6 1. 4 1. 2 1411. 0

4.57
l(i94. ;"15

5
6 7 8 9

.0

>-3

,.

6

197. 7
7.6 7.6

8
9 lO

'i

1120. 6
9.4 9. 3 9. I 9. ()

6
7 8 9 10

7.6 7.0
W7.5
7.5 7.5 7.5 7.4

5.8 5.8
22f>.8
5.7 5,7 5.7 G.6 225.6

4.6
4.6 4.a

7.1
7.0 иfl. 8

4.13
3. 91 3.6\J 3. 47

.o

и0

3.6
4.9
6. 4

~
>-3

4.0

2.3 2.2
28~.2

27G.9
307.6 615.3 9:2:!. 9
12:~11. J)

.o
.0

8.1

::ri
M
U>

6. 7

10

11

254.0
4,()

564. 4
4. 3 4 и) 4.1

ll

13
14

l!.2

3.9 3.9
3.9 : .253.8

2. l
2.1

4.3

16
16
11 18

2.1
282.0
)t.0 2.. 0 l. 9 1. 9

846.6 6.5 6.4 6.3 6.2
846. 1

112!<. 8 8, 7 B.5
i'.4

20
1Gfl3. 25
3.

J0.9

o:i

30
41J

8.2
112'2. l 8. ()
'

rn.:.
1410. l
lи!i1f).

JU, 7

2.Sl
2. G9 2. 37

GU
1' 00 2
3 4
5

15 20 25
30

.0 .0 .0
.0 .I

JO. 0

22.6
4P, l
G~.

q

"d

15:kl. 2 1845. 8 36!!1. 6 5537.4 7Jи::J. I
9:!21'.9 11074. 7

7

t:r:I
~

\,hi.3

10. 3

197.4
7.4

5.6

19 00

7.4 7.3 '7.3

5.6 5.5
5.5 225.5

3.8 3.8
3.7 3.7 253.7

564.0 4. () 3.9

1692. 15
1. <1:J 1. 71 1. 49 1. :!7
]()ill. 05 0. 82 O.Gll

3.'l 40

.1 и2
.3 и4
,()

12UI
IGU.5

z

.....
t-3

6.0 5.9
5.7

7.8
7. 7

3.8
3.8
563.7 3.6

9 9.8 9.6

45
(i()

2n:i.1

M
17.

zr,c. s
31!3,5

6
7

55

t::
trj

5.6
845.5 5.4 5.3

7.5

9.4

21
22

197.3 7.3
7.2

5.4
5.4

281. 8
l. 8 1. 8 1. 7 1. 7
281.7

23
24

7.2
7.2

5.4

25
26 21

5.4

3.6 3.6 3.6 3.5

1127. 4 7.2
7. I

1409.2
!l. 0 8.8

3. 5

3.5 3.4
563. 3
3.2

5.2 5. I
и845. 0
4.9 4. 7 4.6

6.9
6.8

8. 7
8.5

0. :kl 0.16
IG89. 94

8 9 JO Jl 12

129:20.5 14766. :1
Hi61:.!. I

JO 00 1 10

.6 l. 0

:JGl. l
4:JI,5
64~.o

z

t-3

1 20 1 31)
l 41) 1 iiO
2 ()0

11'4&7. 8
2li:l:l:J.tl
2~149.

J.5 2.2

a.o
5.'1

4

3.9

8U.5 lllil:l. l 1:!1:1. 8 1414.4

197.2
7.1

225.3
5.3

253.5
3.5

28 29

7.1
7.1 7.1

5.3 5.2
6.2

l.6
1. 6

30

3.4 3. 4 3. 4

1.6 I. 5

3.2 3. J 3.0

11!26. 6 u. 5 6.3
fl. 2

1401'.3
8. I

9. 71
9.49

7.9
7.7

9.n
9.U5

: 4. 5

6.0

7.5

---------------и--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

TABLE Vt-ProjectiM Tables-Continued.
LA.TlTUDJ: 240

30'.
1.~

,.

Length in metres pf a1cs of the parallel, (arc par.)
7"

Co-ordinates of curvature и. Meridional arcs.

:Min.
8''

9"

10''

20"

30''

40''

50''
~

60''

:x. ' Minutes of longitude. Arc par.
1" 2
3
4

Y.

0
>rj

---1689.05 8.82 8.60 8.38
8.16

~

fil

.... i:ii

30'

197.1

225.2

и 3~ 33
34
35
36

31

7.0 7.0 7.0 7.0
196.9

5.2 5.1 5.1
IU 5.1

253.4 3.3
3.3

281.5 1.5 1.4
1.4

3.3 3.2 3.2 253.2
3.1'

..

1. 4 J. 3

563.0 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.6 662.6 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.3 562.2
2.1

844.5 4.4
4.3

4.2 4.1

4.o

.

1126. 0 5.9 5. 7 5.6 5.4 6.3 1125.1
5.IJ

140;. 5 .4 7.2 7.0 6.8 6.6 1406.4
6.2

30.8 61.5 92.3 123.l 153.8 184.6 215.4 246.1 276.9 307.6 615.3 9'22. 9 1230.6 1538.3 1845.9 3691.8 5537.7 7383. 7 9229.5 11075. 4 12921. 3 . 14767. 2 16613. l lfl459.0 20304.9 2'2150. 9

. 1'

t::l

2
3 4

-.0

.o и0 .o
.o
и0 .0 и0 .0 и0
и0

.I

.4 ,9
1.6

z ...
~

Cl
trl

7.93 1687.71 7.49 7.26 7.04
6.81

5

40

37 38 S9

196.9 6.9 6.8 6.8

6.8

2'25. 0 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.9 224.9 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8 224. 7 4.7 4. 7 4.6 4.6 224.6 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.5 224.4 4.4 4.4 4.3 4.3

281.3
1.2

3.1 3.1 3.0

1. 2 I. 2. 1.1 281. l 1.1 I. 0
J,O

843.9 3.7 3.6 3.5 3.4 843.3 3.2 3.1 3.0 2.8 842. 7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.3 842.2 2. I 1.9 1.8 1.7
841.6

6 7
8 9
10

5 6

7
8
9

2.5 3. 7
ir.o

t::l
Ul

4.8 . 4.7 4.5 1124. 4 4.2 4.1 4.0 3.8 1123.6 3.5 3.4 3.2 3.0 1122. 9 2.8 2.6 2.4 2.3 1122.1 2. 0 1.8 1. 7 1.5

6.0 5.9 s. 7 1405.5 5.3 5. I 4.9 4.7 1404. 6 4.4 4.2 4.0 3.8 1403. 6 3.4 3. 2 3,0 2.9 1402.7 2.5 2.3 2. l
1. 9

и

6.5 8.3 10.2 22.!J 40. 7 63. 7 91. 7 124. 8 163.0 2116.3 254. 7 308.2 366.7 499.2 652.0 8Z5.2 1018. 7 1232.7 1467.0

43

41 42 44

45

196.8 6.7 6. 7 6.7 6.7 196. 6 6.6 6и6 6.6 и6.5
196.5

253.0 3.0 2.9 2. 9
2.9
252.8

0.9 280.9 0.9 0.8 0,8 0.8 280.7 o. 7 0.6' 0.6 U.6 280.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4

2.0 2.0 1. 9
561.8 J. 7

1686.59 6.36 6. 14 5.92 5.69 1885. 47 5.24 5.02 4.79 4.57
1~4.34

20 40 50 1' 00 2
3 4

3U

10 15 20
25

.o .o
.1
.1

i-3 l>-i-3 t.-1
Ul

c
0
11>lf).

30 40 45 50
55
35

~
~

46 47 49
50 48

2.8 2.8 2.7 2. 7 252.7 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.5 252.5 2.4 2.4 2~ 4 2.3

1. 7 1.6 1.5 561. 4 1. 4 1. 3
1. 2
I. I

5 6
7

.2 .3 .4 и.5 .7 ]. l
}. 6

c:1 l:d
~

trj
и~

...

JO 00

.

-~

51 52 53
M 55

6.5 6.5 6.4 6. 4 196. 4 6.3 6.3 6.3 6.3

4.12 3. 89
3.66 3. 44

8 9
10

1 10 l 20 l 30
I 40

0 I'd

2.2
3. I

....

11

12

1 50 2 00

4.1 5,3

Ct ""

~

56
67
58

59 60

561.1 1. 0 0.9 08 0.8

1.5 1. 4 J. 3 1.2

16 3.21 2.99 2.76 2.53 2. 31

~

~

*

~

TABLE VI.-Projectian Tables-Continued.
L.!.r1rvo:1: 250 00'.

lo-I lo-I ~

*

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arCJ par.)

Co-Qrdlnl\tes of curvature.

Min.
7''
8"
9''

10"

20"

30"

40''

5011

60''

6

---- ---- ---- , _
196.3 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 6. l
196.1 6.1 6.1 6.0 6.0 196.0 5.9 5.9 224.3 4.3 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.2
224.1

.

Meridional a.roe.

Mlvutea of . x. longitude. Arc par .
]'

Y.
~ии

O' .1 2 3 4 5

252.3 2. 3 2.3
2.2

2.2 2.2 252.1 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 252.0 1.9 1.9 1. 9
1.8

280.4 o.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 280.2 0.1 0.1 0.0

560.8 o. 7 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 560.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.0 559.9 9.9 H.8 . 9. 7 9.6 559.5 9.5 9.4 9.3
9.2

841.2 I. 0 o. 9 0.8 0. 7 0.6 840.5 0.4 0.2 0.1

1121. 5 1. 4 l.2 .
1.1

1401.9 I. 7
}, 5 I. 4

1682.31 2.08 1.85 ]. 39 1.17 1680.94 0.71 0.48 0,26 0.03 1679,80 9,57 9.34 9.11 8.88 1678.65 8.42 8.20 7.97 7. 74 1677,51 7,28 7.05 6.81 6. 59 1676.36
' 6, 12

1" и.

2и
3 4

1.. 62

0.9 0.8 1120.6 0.5 0.3 0.2

1. 2 I. 0 1400. 8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 <1399. 8 9.6 9.5 9.a 9.1 1398.9 8.7 8.5 8.3 8.1 1397.9 7.7 7.5 7.3 7.2 1397.0 6,8 6.6 6,4 6.2

30.8 61. 5 92.3 123.1 153.8 18!.6. 215.4 246. l 276.9 307.7 615.3 923,0 1230.7 1538.4 1846. 0 3602. l 5538.1 733!. l 9230.1 11076. 2

-,0

2
3

4
5 6 7

5 6
7

7
8 9

10
'11 12

4.1 4.1 4.0 4.0 224.0 3.9 3.9 3.9 3,9 223.8 3,ll 3,8 3,7 3.7 223.7 3.6 3,6

8
9
IO

8
g

.o .o .o .o .o .. o .o
.o

.1 и. 4 .9 I.6

tr.i
"d

0

~

2.6 3.7 5.1 6.6 8.4 10. 3 23.3 41.4 64.6
93.l 11!6.7
25~,5

r-:3
0 l'!l
~

J:t1
l".I
Ol ~

o.o

o.o

o.o

13

14

15

5.9

5.9

..

280.0 9.9 '9.9 9.9 9.8 279.8 9.7 9.7 9.7 9.6 279.6 9.5 9.5
9.5 9.4

839. 9 9.8 9.7 9,5 9.4 839.3 9,2 9.1 9.0 8.9 838. 8
8.6

1119. g
9.7

20 30 40
50

IO
15

..

9.6 .9.4 9.3 1119.1 9.0 8.8 8.6 8.5 1118. 3 8.2 8.0 7. 9 7.7 lll7.6 7.4 7.3 7.1 6.9

20 25 30
35 40 45 50 55

.o .o .o и .0
.1
,l

l".I "'
~

~

1-1

16 17 18
19

и 195.8 5.8 5.8 и 5.8

1' 00 2 4 5
6 3

20
21
21!
23

5. 7
195. 7
fj,7

251.8 1.8 w 1. 7 1. 7
l. 7

.2 ,3 .4 ,5 .7
], 1

165.5 20!1. 4 312.8 372.3 506,7 661.8
837.~

r-:3

z.
t:I
l'>j

trJ

251. 6
l, 6

tu
if)

5.7
5,6 5.6

3.6
3.5 223,5

1,6 1.5 251.5
1и.4 1.4 1. 3 l. 3

00
27

28 29

so

195,6 5.5 6.5 5.5 5.5

и

l.5

559.2 9.1 9.0 8.9 8.9 558.8 8.7
8.6

7 8 9

8.5 8.4 8.3 838.2
8, l

I

10 11 12

10. 00 129;!2. 2 10 I 14768.2 1 20 ] 16614, 2 30 18460, 3. 1 40 .20306. 3 'l 50 . 22152.3 ,, 2 .ooи

!iii "i

1,6 2,3 3.2 5,5
4.~

1034. 1

125U
1489,l
<

3,'5 3.5 3.4 3.4

279.4 9.4 9.3 9.3
9,2

.I

8.& 8.5
I

7.9 7,8 7,7

5.89 ;!i,66 5,43
J

TABLE

VI.~Projcction
I .

Tables......:.Continued.

IaTITUDE

21>░ 30',

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

I
Meridional arcs.
60" 60" 1396, 2 6.0 5.8 5.6. 5.4 5, 2 1395.0 4. 8 4. o
4. 4

CCH)rdbJf!,tes of curvature ..
0
Minutesof X. Iotig\tude.и Arcpar.
l' -. 0

Min.
7" и

8''

9''

10''

20"

30"

40"

Y.

~

---и30' 31

-22.3. 4 3.4 3.3 3.3 3.3 3. 2 223.2 3. 2 251. 3 1.3 1.2 J.2 1.2 J, I 251.1. 1. 1 1. o I. o 1. 0 250. 9 0,9 o. 9 0.8 0. 8 250. 8 0.7 o. 7 0. 7 o. 6 279. 2 9.2 9.2 9.1 9.1 9. 0 и279.0 9. 0 . 558. 5 8,4 8,3 8.2 8.2 8. 1 558.0 7. f}

32
33 34 35

195, 5 5.4 5.4 5.4 5.4 5, 3 195,3 5. 3 5. 2 5. 2

" 837. 7
7,6 7,5 7.4' 7.3 7.1 837.0 6. 9

1116, 9 6.8 6.6 6.5 6.3 6, 2 lll6.и0 fj, 9 6, 1 5. 6 5, 4 1115. 3 5.1 4. 9 4.8 4. 6

.1675. 43 -и-----и-30. 8
l'

'"3
1:1:1
t;l

--~ ---~-

5.20 4.97 4.74 4.51 4. 27 1674.04 3, 81

2 3 4 5 6 7 8

61.5 92.3 123.1 153. 8 184. 6 215.4 246. 2

2 3 4 5 6 7 8

36
37

38

IJ9

5. a

a.1 .
3. t 3.1 223.1 3.0 3. 0 3.0 2. 9 222. 9 2.9 2. 8 2. 8 2. s

s. 9
8. 9 8. 8 278. 8 8.8 8. 7 8.7 8. 7
218. 6

7. 9

10

7. s 7. 7 557. 6 7.5 7. 5 7.4 1и 3 557. 2 7,2 7. 1 7. 0 s. 9

6. s
6. 1 6. 6 836, 4 6,3 6. 2 6.] 6. 0 835. 9 . 5.7 . 5. 6 5. 5 5. 4

a. 34

a. 58

I

.o .o .o и0 и0 .o

.1 .4 .9 1.7 2. 6 3. 8 511 6. 7

z ....
'"3
ti:l t:;I
172

C'.1

и0

9
IO 20 30 40 50

276. 9
307. 7 615. 4 '9'2:3. 1 1230,8 153tl. 5 1846. 2 3692. 3 5538. s . 7384.6 9230. 8 11076. 9 12923. I и 1476!). 2 16615. 4 I 8461. 6 20307. 7 22153. 9

9
10 15 20 25 30 3fi 40 45 50и 55

иo

s. 5
10. 5 23.6 42.1) 65.6 94. 4

>-3 11-'"3 ti:l
tl2

4. 3
1394. 1 3.9 3. 7 3.5 3, 3 . 1393, 1 2.9 2. 7 2. 5 si. a

3.11 1672. 88 2.65 2. 41 2.18 1. 95 1611. 11 1.48 1. 2;) J. 01 o. 78

41

195. 2
5.1 5. 1 5.1 5.1 195. o 5,0 5. o 5. 0 4. 9

44 46

42. 43

и0 .1 и1 . '1 и2 .и a
.4.

.o

,0

a
0
!loo

rn

1-3
. (Tl

47

46 48 41J

w

8.6и 8. 5 8. 5 s. 5

m4. 5

11 00 2

4.3 4. 2 4. 0 a. 9

a

4

5 6 7

I
1c 1

I

и5
J. I 1. 1 2. 4 3. 3 4. 4 5. 7 '

128. 5 168. 0 212. 4 262.3 317. 3

q
~

<l l"J
"!l 0
?;l

o<.

s1
fi2 fi3 64 55

194. 9
4. 9 4. 8 4. 8 4. 8 194. s 4. 7 4. 7 4. 7 1. 6

m. 1

200. 6
0. 6 O. 5 O. 5 0. 4 250. 4 o. 4 0. 3 o. 3 o. 3

21s. 4
8. 4 8, 3 t'l. 3 8. 3 218. 2 8. 2 8. 1 s. 1 8. 1

556. a
6, 8 6. 7 6. 6 6. 5 556. 5 6. 4 6, 3 6. 2 6. 1

s35. a
5, 2 5, 0 4. 9 4. 8

rn:i. 1
3, 5 3. 4 3. 2 3. 1 1112. o 2. 8 2. 6 2. 5 2. 3

1392. 1
J, 9 1, 7 J, 6 1. 4

167.Jl. 55
~ 32

s
9 10 11 12

2. 7 2. 7 2. 6 2. ll

70, 08 69, 84 69, 61 1669. 37 9. 14 8. 90 . 8. 67 8. 43

10 i 20 1 30 l 40 1 и f>O 2 00

oo

.7

m. 1 514. 0 611. 4 849. 7 1049. l 1269, 4 1510. 6

....
00

I."

Ф>

w
67 58

oo

60

222. 6 2. 6 2. 5 2. 5 2. 5

s34. 1
4. 6 4. 5 4. 3 4. 2

1391. 2 I. 0 o. 8 o. 6 o. 4

I
II

,
......
QI

I
l

I-"

*

TABLE VI.-Projecticm Tables-Continued.
WTITUDIC 260

~

.... .....
*

00' и

..
Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.) Co-ordinates of cun'ature.

Min.
7"
8''
9"
v
~

10''

20"

30"
''.

40"

50"

60''

Meridional 11rcs.

-256.1 6.1 6.0 5.9 6.8 5.7 555.7 5.6 5.5 5.4 5.4 555.3 5.2 5.1
5.-0

CY

t 3

l

194.6
4.6 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.5

222.5

.. 5
& "I 8 9

2.4 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.3

250.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 250.1

278.1 8.0 8.0 8.0 7.9 7.9 277.8 7.8 7.8 7. 7
7.7

834.2
4.1

. 4.0
3. 9 3. 7

3.6 633. 5
3. 4
3. 3

ll12. 3 2.1 2.0 1. 8 1. 7 1.5 llll. 3 J.2 1.0 0.9 0. 7 1110.6 . 0.4 .i.2 0.1 1109. 9

.
и'

1390.4 0.2 0.0 1389.8 9.6 9.4 1369.2 9.0 8.8
8.6
8. 4

1668.43 8.20 7.96 7.72 7.49 7.25 ; 1667. 02 6.78
6.54

и

.
. l"'

Minutes of longitude. Arc par.

. x.

Y.
.1 'p: t-i
1. 7 2.7
3.8

2 3. 4 5
6

. ..

30.8 61.;; 92.3 123.1 153. 8 J84. 6 215.4 246.2 276.9 307.7 615. 4
9'~3.1

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15
. 20

1'

...... oи

.o
-0

.\)

t. a

.4

"d 0 . t:i:l

.o

...,
0
~

194.5

10
11

4.5 4.4 4.4 4.4

222: 3
2.2 2.2 2.2 2.1

249.9 9.9 249.9 9.8 9.8 9.8 .. 9.7 249.7 9.7 .9.6 9.6. 9,5 249.5 9.5 9.4 9.4 9.4 249.3 9.3 9.3 9.2 9.2

o.o o.o

3.2
3. 0

6.07 . 1665.83 5.60 5.36
5.12

6.31

7 8 9
JO

.o

.0

.0 и0

5.2 6.8 8.6

1-'3

J:rl
t'l
f12

12 13 14 15 16

.194.3 4.3 4.3 4.3

4.2

222.1. 2.1 2.0 2.0

2.0

277.6 7.6 7.6 . 7.5 7.5 277.4 7.4 7.4 7.3

5.0

832.9 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.4 832.3 2.2 . 2.1 2.0

1368.2 8.0 7.8 7.6 7.4 1387.2 7.11 . 6.8 6.6 6.4 1386.2 6.0 5.8 5.6 5;4 1365.2 5.0 4.8
4.6

20 30 40
50

1230.9 1538.6 3 3692.6
18~6.

25
30

.'o .o .o
.1
.I

J0.6 23.9 42.6 66.5 95.7 130.3 170.2 215.4 265.9
~1:s

c::

"d

M l:tl

4.88 1664.65 4.41 4.17
3.93 3.69

17

18 19
21

194.2 4.2

222.0

4.2

w

4. 1 . 4.1

1.9 1.9 J.9 1.8 221.8 ]. 8 1. 'l' 1.7 I. 7

.
'

'

7.3

. 4. 7 . 4.6 4.6 554.5 4.4 4.3 4;2 . 4.2
554.1

554.9 4.8

22 23 24 2G
96 2"I !8 99 00

194.1 . 4.0 4.0 4.0
4.0
193.9 3.9 3.9 3.9 8.8

. 277.2 7.2 7.2 7.1 7.1 277.0 7.0 7.0
6.9 6.9.

..

1109.8 9.6 '9,4 9.3 9.1 1.8 .. и~ .1109. 0 831.7 8.8 1.6 . ]. 5 8.6 8.5 l.4 1.2 8.3 831. 1 .
I. 0

l' 00 2 3 4
5 6

5538.8

35 40 45
50

7385.l 9231.4
11077.7

55

.1 .2 ;3 .4 .6

z

....

1-'3

z
z

l':l

l:j

I.'!!
~

. 1663. 46 3.22 2.98 2.74 2.50 1662.26 . 2.0-2 и 1. 78 1.55 1. 31 .

7 8 9 10

12

11

129'24.0 14770.2 10016.5 18462. 8 20309.1 22155.4

i

JO 00
10

.7
1. 2 . I. 7

и 1 !O

383.0 521. 2 . 680.8 1063.7 1287. l 1531. 8
:

1 и1 l .2

и30 40 50 00

2.5

,861.6

3.4 4.5 : 5.9

221.6 J. 6 1.6 1.5
1.5

4.0 3.9 3.8 3.8

0.9 0.8 . o. 7.

1108.2 8.0 7.9 7.7 . 7.5

4.4

TABLE VI._,,f'rrdeetion Tables-Continued.
L.lTlTlJDJ:

26░ 30'.

"

Length iD metroa Qf arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)
7'' 8'' 9'' 10''

Min.
20"
30"

.
6011
60"
1384.4 4.2 4.0 Ii61. 31 1. 07 0.83 0.59 0.35 0.11 1659.87 9.63 9.38 9.14. 8.90 ' 1658. 66 8.42 8.18 7.94 7.70 1657.45 7.21

Co-ordinates of curvature.
"и

Meridional arcs.
'

0

40"

Mimitea of иX, longitude. ~cpar'.

Y.

-301 31
32

193.8
3.8

30.8 61.5 92.3 123.1 153.9 184.6 215.4 2!6.2 277.0

.
.1

t':j

:=
tr:f

~

221.5

33 34 35 и
36

3,8 3. 7 3. 7 3. 7

]. 3
221. 3
1. 3 1.3

1.5 J. 4 1. 4 ], 4. '

249.2 9.2 9.1 9.1

'276.9' и.

68

9. 1
9.0 249.0 8.9 8.9 8.9

..

6.8 6.S 6.7 S.7 276.6 6.6 6.5 6.5 276.4 6.4 6.4 6.3 6. 3 276.2 6.2 6.2 6.1 6.1 276.0 6.0 6.0

..

553.8 3. 7 3.6

.3.5
3.4 3.4 553.3 3.2 . 3.1 3.0 3.0 552.9 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.6 '552.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.2 552.1 2.0 1.9 1.8 I. 8 551. 7 1.6 1.5 1.4 I. 3

830.7 0.5 0.4 9. 3,

mn. 5

0.2'
0.1и 829.9 9.8 9.7 9.6 9.5 829.3 9.2 9.1 9.0 8.8 828.7 8.6 8.5 8.4 . 8.2

...

7.4 7.2 7.1 6.9 6. 7

3.8
3.6 3.4 . 1383.2 3.0

l" 2 3 4
5

I' 2 3 4
5 6 7 il . 9

-.0 .0 .0

.4
]. 0 I. 7 2.7 3.9 5.3 6.9 8.7
JO. 8 24. 3 43.1 67.4 97.0

c::: z
~

....
tr:! t::1
al
~

.0

3
7

193. 7
3.6 3.6 3.6 3.5
11}3.5 3.5

40
41 42

'SI 38 S9

1106. 6 6.4

6.6

6.3

2.8
2.6 2.4 1382.2 2.0 1.8 1.6 I. 4 1331. 2 ]. 0 0.8 0.6 0.4 1380.2 0.0 1379.8 9.6 9.4 1379.2 9.0

8 9 10 20 30 40 50 l' 00 2 3
4,

.o .o .o .0. .o
.o .o
иI .1

1.2
1. 2

8.8
248.8 8.8

6.1 5.9 1105. 8 5.6 5.5 5.3 5.1 1105. 0 4.8

2'21.2

Ф

t3
45
46
47 48 49
51

1.1
1. 1 1.1 ]. 0
2'~1.

3.5
3.4 3.4 193.4 3.3

8.7
8.7

397.7 615.!'l 923.2 1230. 9 1538. 7 1846.4

10 15 20 25
30

.0

и

> ;.,:i
tr:f
l:JJ
Q

> l:JJ
~

0

8.7
248.6 8.6

3692.8
5539. 2 7385. 6 . 9232.0 и 11078. 4
}O
I

3.3
~.3

6o

0 1.0 0.9 0.9

8.5
8.5 8.5 248.4 8.4 8. 4 8.3 ll.3

4. 6
4. 5 4. 3 1104. 2 4. 0

6.97
6.73 6.49 1656.21 6;00 5.76 5.51 5, !'7
'

5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12

35 -40 45 50 55 1 1 1 ] 1 2 00 10 20 30 40 50 00

.2
.2 .3 .и и4

132.1

In.5
218.;J 269.5

c::
~

l:JJ

<I
tr:f
Ml

.'6
.8 1. 2 l. 8
~.5

326.1
528.3 690.'0 873.3

3.2
193.2 3.2

0.9
220.8 0.8

ass: 1

....,
0

12924. 8
14771. 3

828.]
' . 8.0 и 7.9 7.7 7.6 827.5 7.4 7.3 7.2 7.0

1>2

63
M
55

3.2
3.1 3.1
193.1 3.1 3.0 3. 0 3. 0

66
67 58

.

0.8 0.7 0.7 220.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.5

3.8
3. 7 3.5 1103. 4 3.2 3.0 2.9 2. 7

5.9
5.9 и 275.8 5,8 "

Hi617. 7 18464.1 20310.5 22156. 9

...
00
(.>

~

3.5
4.6 6.0

1076. 1

ti\

1304. 6 1552.5

.

248.3
8.2

1655.03 4.78

8.2
8.1 8.1

5.8
5. 7 5.7

B.8

69
60

8.6. 8.4 .

4.M 4. 30

4.05

I

* ....... """' ..;r

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

....... ......
00

270 00'.

*

"
Hin.
7"

.
8'' 9''

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc pnr.)

10"

20''

il(l"

404

50"

60''

Meridional arcs.

I

Co-ordinates of curvature.

IMinutes of

longitud.e. и Arc par .

.

x.

Y.

O' 1
l)

3
4 5

193.0 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.8 192.8 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.7 192.7 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.5
192.5

220.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 220.3 0.3 0.3

248. 1 B.1 8.0 8.0 8.0 7.9 247.9 7.9 7.8 7.8 7.7 247.7 7.7 7.6 7.6. 7.6 247.5 7.5 7.4 7.4 7. 4 247.3 7.3 7.3 7.2 7.2 247.1 7.1 7.1 7.0 7.0

275.7 5.6 5.6 5.6 5.5 5.5 275.4 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3 275.2 5.2
. 5.1

551. 3 1.3
I. 2

1.1

I. 0 09
. 550.9

827.0 6.9 6.8 6.7 U.5 6.4 826.3 6.2 . 6.0 5. 9 5.8 8%.7 5.6 5.4 5.3 5.2 825.1 4.9 4.8 4.7 4.6 824.5 4.3 4.2 4.1
и4.0

1102. 7 2.5 2.4 2.2
2.1 I. 9

1378.4 8.2 8. 0 7.8 7.6 7. и1 1377.2 7.0 6.7 6.5 6.3 1376.1 5.9 5.7 5.5 5.3 1375.1 4.9 4.7

1654.05 3.81 3.57 3.32 3.08 2.83 1652.59 2.34 2.10 1.86
1.61

1"'

.. 2 3
4

30. 8 61.5 92.3 123.1
153.9 184.7 215.4 246.2 277.0

l'
2

3 4
5

-.0 .0 .0 .o

.o

.1 .4 I. 0 1.7 2.7 3. 9 5.4 7.0 8.8
10,9 24.6 43. 7 68.3 98.3

[:lj trj

"d 0

P:J
>-3 0
'>:l
~

6 7 8
9

10
1l 12 13
H 15

o.!l

0.2

0.8 o. 7 . 0.6 o. 5 550.5 0.4 !'. 3 0.2 0.1 550. 0. 0.0 .; 549. 9 9.8 9.7 649.6 9.5 9.5 9.4 9.3 649.2 9.1 9.1 9.0 8.9

1101. 7 1.6 I. 4
1.2

5 6 7
B

'

9

6 7 8 9
10

1. I 9 .. .1100. 0,8 0.6 . 0,4' 0.3 ' ии 1100.1 1099.9 9.8 9.6 9.4 1099.3 9.1 8.9 . 8.8 8.6 1098.4 8.3 8.1 6.0 7.8

10
20 30 40 60. 1' 00
2

220.2 0.1 o. 1

o. 1
0.1

5.1
6.1

..

1651.36 1.12 0.87 0.63 0.38 1650. 13 49.89
49. 64

307,8 615.5 923. 3 12a1. o 1538. 8 1846. 5 3693, 1 55;l9. 6 7386.2 . 9232.7 11079. 2 12925.8 14772. 3 16618. 8 18165. 4 20311. 9 22158. 4

15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 10 00 1 10 1 . 20 1 30 1 40 I 50 2 00

.o .o .o .o .o .o .o
.1.
,I

1-3

trj

и

al ~

"d
trj

lG
19
20
17 18

2.5 2.5
2.4

2.4
192.4

220.0. o.o 0.0 219.9 9.9 219.9 9.8
9.8 9.8

275.0 5.0 4.9 4.9 4.9 274.8 4.8 4.7 4.7 4.7 274.6 4.6 4.5

4.5

4. 3

49.39 49.15 1648. 90 8.65 8.41 8.16 7. !:11 1647. 67 7.42 7.17 6.92 . 6.68

3 4 5 6
7

.2 .2 .3 .5 .6

1!13. 8 174.7 221. 2 273.0 330.4 393.2 535.2 699.0 884.6 1092.0 13.21. 5 157:2. 8

z
z

?:! ....
>'3

tsJ

t::1
tr.l

21 22 23 24
25

2.3 2.3
2.3

2.3
192.2

9. 7 219. 7и 9.7 9.6 9.6 9.6

1374 ии1 3.9 3. 7 3.5 3. 3 1373.1 2.B 2.6 2.4 t.2ии

8 9
10

. 3.6

.8 1. 2 1. 8 2.6 4.8

!2l >-1

11

12
.:

6.2

26 t?' lil8

it
31)

2.2 2.2 2.1 ll.1

4.5
4.4

'

823.S 3. 7 . 3.6 3.5 3.3

I

I

I

TABLE VIи ..:_Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

270 30'.

1-g<h ID mи-и..C

и-of tlo puollи, (ore P"-)

,

lfln. i--7,-,-- \
--1 I

8"

(

9"'

I

10''

j
I

2fY'

I

30"

\

40"

\

50"

I

-1---------и60"
1''
2
30. 8

-i . Co-ordinates of cur:vature.
0

Meridional arcs.

\ Minutes of X. \ I longitude. Arc par.

Y.

>tj

"3

l---1
2l!l. 6

1-----"I--

1---161. 6
9~.3

::rl
t:i

30и

:n

32
35

19'.2. 1 2. 1 2.1

9.5 9.5

33 -34

2.0

,1;0

2. 0

9.4
9.4
219.4

9.5

247.0 7.0 6.9 6.9 6.9
6.8

274.4 4.4 ,,

548.9 8.8

4.4 4.3
4. 3

8. 7

8.6
. 8.6'8,5
548. 4 8.3

823.3 3.2 3.1 3.0
2.8 2.7
822.6

1097. 8
7.6 '7.5

1372.2
2.0 l.8 1.6 1. 4 1.2
1371. 0

1646.68 6.43
6.18

11 и2

3
4

3

-.0 .0

.1

0

,,o

.4
1.0 1.8
2.8 4.0 5.4 7.1

z ....
"3
t;; и

7.3
7.1 6.9
1096.8 66

4.2 274.2
4.2
4.1 4.1

5.93 5.68 6.43
1645. 18

123. 1
153. 9 184.7
215. 4 240.2 277. 0

4
5
6

.o
.o
.0
.0

5
6

I:! m

36'
37

, JIH.9 '"l,9

246.8
6.7

ll9

38

1.9
J. 9 1. 8

40
42 4'8
45

9.3 9.3 9.3 9.2
219.2 9.2 9. J
9.1 9.1

2.5
2.3

0.8

6.7 6.7 6.6

8.2
8.I

2.2

4.0 274.0
3. 9

8.1
548.0 7.9

2.1 8'22. 0 1.8
1. 7

6.5 6.3 6.1

0.6 0.4 0.2

4.44

4.94 4.69

7 8
9

8
9
10
15

7

.o .o .o .o
.'I
иI

;.-

"3

9.0
11. 1

4.19

IO
20
30 40

307.8
615.5
923. 3 mat. 1

m
24.9
44.2
6fl. l 99.5

8 t:::l

.0

a
0

41

191.8 1. 8
1. 7 I. 7 I. 7

246.6 6.6 6.5
6. 5

3.9
3.9 3.8

44

6.4

7.8 7.7 7.6

J.6
J,5

1096. 0 5.8 5.6 5.5 5.3 1095. 1
5.0

1370.0 69.7 9.5
9.3 9.1

1643.94 3.69
3. 44

50
1' 00 2
3 4 5 6

1538.9
1846. 7

20 25 30

;."3

00. 00.

3.19

2.U4 1642.69 2.44
2. 19
J. 94

.

3~

.2
.2 .3 .5 .6
.8 1. 3 l.!l 2. 7
3. 7 4. 9

3693.3
5540. 0

46 47
48

191. 6
I. 6

219.0
9. 0

49
60

1.6
1. 5 191. 5

1. 6

9.0
8.9 8.9

246.4 6.4
6.3 6.3 6.3

273.8 3, 7.

647.6
7.5

3. 7 3. 7 3.6

7.4
7.3

821. 3 I. 2 1. 1
], 0 Q.8

1368.9

s. 7

7386.7

4.8 4.6
4.5

7.2
547.1 7.1

8.5 8.3 8. l

9\!3:3. 3
11081). 0

40 45 50 55
1░ l l 1 00 10 20 30

135.5 17!i.9 223.9

d l:O

276.5
334. 5

-<l
t;j
~

J. ()9

398.1
541.9 707.8 895.8 1105. 9 133:-l. 1
1592. 5

~

M
li2 63

218. 9

1. 5
l. 4

8.B
8. il
8.R

64

65
56 57 68

1. 4 l. 4

8. 7

246.2 6.2 6.1 6.1 6.1

273.6
3.5

820.7

1094. 3
4.1

13G7.9

3.4 3.4
27:1.4

3.6

7.0 6.9
6.8
5411. 7 6.6

.0.6 0.5 0.3
0.2
820. I 8'20. 0

7.6
7.4

mt 44 I
J. 18
I

7 8
9 10 11

12026.7 1477:1. 3 16H!0,0
18!66. 7
'2031'..J, 3

0
~

....
00 Cl1

4.0
3.8 3.6

7.2

0. ()3 0.68

7.0
1366. 8 6.6

o. 43
!'

1 40 1 50

....

12

22160.0

2 00

6.4

191.4
1. 3 1. 3

218. 7
8. 7

246.0
11.0

1093. 5
3.3

59
60

], 3

1.2

8.6 8.6 8.6

6.0 6.9 6.9

3.3 3.3
3.2

3.2

6.6 6.5 6.4

srn.8

3. 1
3. 0 2.8

819. 7 819.6

6.4 6.2 6.0

1640, 18 3!l. 93 39.68 39.42, 39.17

I

I
I

~ ~

*

~__;_~~~.2.--~~-'---~~---1~~~--'-~~----'-~~~~'~~~-'-~-~--'-~~~---"-'

и-~~-

"░

TABLE VI.-Pr<iection Tables-Continued.
L.t.TlT1lDI

.....
0

~

28" 00'.

*

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

Co-ordinate1 of curvature.

Hin.
1~

8"

9"

. 10"

20"

WO''
,..-

40'' :

50''

Meridion11l 11rcs.
60"
IMinuteEof

longitude. Arcp11r.

x.

Y.

---- - O'
1

2 3

4 5

191.2 1.2 1.2 1.1
1.1

1.1
191.1 1.0
l.O

218.6 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.4 8.4 218.4 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.2 218.2 8.2 8.1 8.1 8.0 218.0 8.0 7.9 7.9 7.9 217.8 7.6 7.8 7.7 7.7 217.7 7.6 7.6 7.6 7.5

245.9 5.8 5.8 5.8 5.7 5.7 245.6 5.6 5.6 5.5 5.5 245.5 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3 245.3 5.2 li.2 5.2 5.1 245. J 6.0 5.0 5.0 4.9 244.9 4.8 4.8
4.8 4.7

273.2 3. 2. 3. l 3.1 3.0 3.0 .. 272.9 2.9 2.9 2.8 2. B 272.7 2. 7
,fl.6 2.6

546.4 6.3 6.2 6.1 6. J 6.0 545.9 5.8 5.7 5.6 5.5 ии 545.5 5.4 l>.3 5.2 5.1

81\).6 9.5 9.3 9.2 9.1 9,0 818. 8 . 8,7 8.6 8.5 8.3 818.2
8. l

1092.8 2.6 2.5 2.3 2.1 1.9 1091. 8
1.6 l.4

1366. 0 5.8 5.6 5.3 5, 1 4.9 1364. 7 4.5 4.3 4.1 3.9 1363,7 3.4 3.2 3.0 2.8 1362.6 2;4
2.2 2.0

1639.17 8.92 8.67 8.41 8.16 7.91 1637.65 7.40 7.15 6.90
6.64

I"
2

30.8
61. 6

l'

3
~

9-J.3 123.1

2
3

-.0

4
5

.o .o .o .o ,.o
.0 .0 .1 .2 .2 .3 , .5 .6 ,8 J. 3 2.0 2.8 3.8 5.1 6.6 .0

.o

иJ . 1. (
~

~

M
"'d 0
~и

1. E

6 7 8
9

10
11 12

J.0 0.9

1. 3 1.1

5 6 7 8 9

153.9 184.7 215.5 246.2 277.0

6 .. 7 8 . 9

2.E 4.C 5.li
7.~

"'
0
t2j

13
14

.

. 190.9 0.9 0.9
0.8

Io

o.s

2.6 272.5
2.5 .

..

7.9 7.8 7.7 817.6. 7.4 7.3 7.2 7.0 816.9 6.8 6.7 6.6 6.4

1090.9 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 1090.1 89.9 . 9.7 9.6 9.4 1089.2 9.1 8.9 8.7 8.6 1088.4 8.2

1636.39 6.13 5.88 5.63 5.37 1635.12 4.86 4.61 4.35 4.10 1633.84 3.59
3.33 3.08

..

10 20 30 40 50

I

307.8 615. 6 923.4
1231. 2

10 15 20

.. o .o
и1

9.J
I.~ 25.~

"3
M

::i:

l

1539.0 1846.8 3693. 6 5540, 4 7387. 2
9234.0

иao
35

'25

44.E 70.C 100.?
137.] 179. J 21!6.C

c:

m
M

"'d

и 19
20 21 22 23

16 17 18

190.8 0. 7 0.7 0.7 0,6 190.6 IJ.6 Oi6 0.5 0.5 190.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0,3

2.3

2.4 ' .. 2.4

и 545.0 5.0 и 4. 9 4.B 4.7 544.6 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3 544.2 4. 1 4.0 3.9 3.8

l' 00 2
3

z

.....

l;Q

1.7 1361. 5
1. 3

4 5 6

40 45 50
55

>-3 M

11080.8

279.E 338. 6 402.S 548.4
7l6.~

и~
z
M
..;i

24

16

.272,3 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.1 272.1 2.0 2.0 2.0 I. 9

7
8

~

=
30

26 11

и
',

1.1 0.9 0.7 1360.5 0. 3 1359.8 9.6

9
10 11

2.82 1632.57 2. 31 . 2.06 1.80 . 1.54

I?

1░ 00 ] 10 12927.6 14774. 4 1 20 16621. 2 I 30 18468. 0. . l 40 20314.8 1 50 22161.6 2 00

906.fl

1U9.3
1354.~

1611. 7

816. 3 6.2 6.0
. &9

s.o

7.9

o.o

.

.. 5.8

7.7

и

TABLE VI.~Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

28░ 30'.

I
Min.
7"
8"
9"

Length in metreB of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)
-

I
I

Co-ordi

tes of curи~ture.

-

r-.-----ии-и

10"

20"

30"

40"

50"

60"

Meridional arcs.

---~Iinute~ ol ' longitttde.

.....

-30'

A,;;=1
.0 и0

Y.

0
>Tj

---~-----

Ol

и 31 32

33 34
36

190.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 . 0.2 0.2 190.2
0.1 0.1 Q, 1

217.6 7.5
7.5

244.7 4.7 4.7
4.6

7.4 7.4 7.4 217.3 7.3 7.3 7.2 7.2 217.2 7.1 7. 1 7.1 7.0 217.0 7.0 6.9
Ii. 9

271.9 1. 9 ]. 8 1. 8
I. 7

543.8 3.8
3. 7

815.8

4.6 4.5 244.5 4.5 4. 4 4.4 4.4
244. 3

]. 7

3.6 3. 5 3. 4
54~.3

5.5 5.4

r>. 6

1087. 7 7.5 7.4
'i'.2
7.0

13f>9. 6 9. 4
!J. 2.

16~1.

54

]. 29 J.03
II. 77

l'' 2 3

61. 6
9~.3
1~2:J.

30. s I
1

]'

~1--

.1

t:i

:::
~

1-3

9.0
8.8

4 5
6

2 3

5.3 5. l

0.52

4
5

.o
.0

.5 ]. 0 I. 8

d

z ....

6.8 . 1086. 7
ft. 5 6. 3 6.2 6.0

8.6

0,26
1630. 00

36 37 :J8

271. 7
J. 6 I. 6 1. 5

40
41
42

39

3. 3 3.2

815.0 4.9 4.7
и 4. 6

1358.3 7.9 7. 7
7.5

153.9 184. 7
277. 0
307.8

t<:1

e. 1

:w. 75
!J. 4(}
!<.97

7 8
9
10

215. 5 24ft. 3 .

I

6 7
8

.o
.0
.0 .0

2.8
4. l

\'j

5.5
7.2 9.2
11. 3 2:l.5 4;,_ 3

1J2

o. 0

]. 5
271. 5 ]. 4

3.1

3.0

!l.23

9
JO
15

;:... ,..;
trj 1J2
Q

1-3

4.5

190.0
0.0

44 45
46

43

0.0 189. 9 9.9 189.9
9. 8 9.8

4.3 4.2 4.2 4.2 244. 1
4.1

1. 4
]. 3 I. 3
271.2 J. 2

542, 9 2.8 2.7
2.6

814.4
4.2 4. I

2.6

4.0 3.8
813, 7

1085. 8 5.G 5.5 5.3
5. 1 1085. 0

1357. 3
7.0

1628. 71

8.46
20 7. !14 7.6d
~-

20 39
40 Gil

615. fi
92:J.5 1231. 3 . 15:J!J. 1
31j9:J. [) &f>40. 8

20
~~l

6.H tl.G 6.4 13W.2 6.0 5.8
5.
f)

. () .0 .]

.0

0

70.8
]OJ.

~

30

.1

9

1J2
...,i Ul

47 48

4.0
4. 0

49 liO
51
5~

9.8
9.7
189. 7

J. 1 J. I
]. l

542.5 2.4 2.3
2.2 2.1

l' 00 2
3

1846. [)

I
I
I

35
40

10\!i. 42
7. 16 6. !JI 6. ti5 6. :m 1626. 13
5.~7

.2 .3
и4
.5 .7

1:i~. 7 181. 2

d

p;

6.9

4.0
243.9

3.6 3.5 3.3 3.2
BI:l. l

4.8 4.6 4.4
4.:3
1084. 1

4 5 6

7:m.7 [1-2:14. 1 IIOt!l.6 12028. 6 14ii:1. 5 }(''6~2. ,.
H3~fifl.4

45 511 55
]O 00 1 10 1 20 1 30 1 40 1 f>I) 2 00

2<!9.3
28:.J. l

-"1
t<:1 "'1

342.5
407.6
Gf1,t. 8

fi.:l 13iiri. l 4.9

216.13
~.8

271.0
]. 0

542.0
2. 0 J. 9 1.tl

7
8
9

I I
f

.R
] . :i

"::! ::d

0

9. 7
9.7
9.6 9.6

63 54
55 ti&

6. 7 6.7 6.7
216.6
6.6
fl.6

3.9 3, 8 3.8 3.8

0.9 0.9 0.8
270. 8 0,8 11. 7

]. 7

2.9 2.8 2.7
2.5

2.

(I

3.9

3.8

4. 7
4.;;

3.G
3. 4

4.2 1354.0

'.ti] 5. ;~;) 5.09

JO
ll 12

I

2.H
:l.!J
f), 2

724.7
!l!i. l
Jl:Jи!. 3 J:l70.0

.....

2'll6:J. 2

20:lHi. 3

i
11

"' :-"

en

G.8

Hi31l. 5

180.6

t7
{)8

!1.5

243.7
3.?
3.fi 3. (j

541. 6 I. 5

li9
6~

9.5 9.5 9.4

1.4
1. 4 ], 3

6.5
6, 5

3.6

0.7 0.6

812. 4 2.3 2.2
2.0 ]. 9

108:!. 2
3. 0

:1. s
:1.6 3. 4

JG24. l'l:l
4. :n
4. !\7

2.9 2.7 2.5

I
I
I I

4.05
:J.79

3.1

...... *
I:,,:)

""""

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
Lu1TUI>E

......
t-.:1
t~

290 00".

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (are par.) Min.

t
711

I
8"

I
9"
I

I
10''

I

11--- -- -- 50'и

20"

30' 1

40"

6W'

-/

-1-1

*

Co-ordin~~=~~-c~~=---- и-------

llferidional areg.

-----Y.

---I

---------

Ii. ---------,
1082. 5 2.4 2.2 2.0
1. 8
1. 7

I

I

--c- -------

t
1

[Minutes of X. 1 ,j longitude. Arc par.

1---1'
2

0' 1 2 4 5

3

189. 4 9.4 9.4 9.4 9. :~ 9.3

216. 5

6.5 6. 4
6. 4

243.6 3.5
3.5

270.6 0.6

541. :J

n.5

1. 2
1. I 1. 0

6.4
6. 3

3.5
3. 4 3. 4

0.5 0.5 0.4

Bl I. 9 Ul I.6и I. 5
J.4 I. 2

0.9 0.8 540.7

1353.l 2.9 2.7 2.5 2.3 2.1
1351. 9
J, 6

1623. 79

3.53 3. 27
3. 01 .

l'' .2и 3 4

3n.s I
61.tl 92.4

2.75 2.48 1622.22 1.96
I. 70 1. 44 I. 18

123. 1

I
I

i

-.0

.o

3 4

.o
.0

.1 .5
l. ()
1. 8

~
t:rj

>'d 0
p:j ~

t> 6
7

153.9
21~.

6
7

8 9 10 11

189. 3 9. 2 9.2 9.2 9.1
189.1

216. 3 6.3 6.2 6.2 6.2
216. l 6. l 6.1

243.3 3. 3
3. 3

270.4 0.3
0.2
0.2

o. 3

3.2 3.2

0.6 0.5 0.4

o. 7

811.1
I. 0 0.8 o. 7 0.6

1081. 5 ]. 3

184.7

J. 1
I. 0

1. 4
1. 2 I. 0

8 9
10 20
3f> 4(1

5

i
1и

I

I

5 6
7 8 9

и0

2.9
4. 1 5.6 7 ..3
!J.3

.0
и0 .0

0
"j
~

277.1

246. 3

.0
и0

~

0.8 1080.6 0.4
0.3 o. l 1079.9

307. 8 I

243.1
3.1

270.2

12 13

9.1
9,0

14 15
16 17

9,0 9.0
189. 0 8. 9

6.0
6. 0

3.1 3.0 3.0
~42.9

0.1

o. 1

.540. 3 0.2 0. 1

8lo.5
0.3 0.2

1350. 8
0,5

1620, 92

0.0

o. 0

0.0
() 0

0.1 809. 9
809.8 9. 7

0.3
0. l

0.65 0.39
0,
l~
1и1

50
l' 00 2 3

1539. 2
1847.1 :J(i94. l
5541. 2

1~~r ~

01s. 1

I
'11

10 15 20
.25

t".1

.o

1I.4

25.8
45. 8
71. 6

rt>

,()

I
1'

.l
.l

30

d >'d t".1
::>:I

IO:l. 0
14(), 3
183. 2

.....

49.9
13..19. 7 9.4 9.2

1619. 87

:er;
40

I

18 19 20
21
22

8.9 i.9 8.8
181". 8
8.8

215.9 5.9. 5.9 5.8 6.8

269.9
9.9

2.9 2.9

2.8
2.8'

9.8 9. 8
9.8

5:l9.9 9.8 9.7
!J. 6

1079. 7

9.6
9.4 9.2

9.5
9.4

1619. 60 9.34 9.08
fl.82

9.5

9.3
809.l 9. 0 8. 9 8. 7

9.1 1078. 9
8.7

9.0 8.8 1348.6 8.4
8. l

4 5 6

7388.3
9235.3 11082. 4

45

.2 .3 .4
.5 .7
.9 l.4

z

231. 9

I
I /!
11 11

50

286.2
346. 4

z

'"3 t".1

55

t::l
t".1

8.55
7

10 ()()
8
9 IO

╗t

23

26
26

8. 7 a. 1 8. 7 188. 6
8. 6

215.8 5.7 5. 7 5.7 5.6
215.6

242.7 2.7 2.7 2.6 ., 2,6

269.7
fl. 7

539.4 9.3
9.3 9.2

9.6 9.6
!J.5

8.5
8,3

7.9
7.7

9.1
539.0 8.9 8,8
B. 7

8.6 808,5 8.4
. ,и ~.2 . 8.1
. 8. 0

8.2
1078, 0

16lt'. 29 8.03 7.76 7.50 7.23
1616. 97
Ci, 71 6.44 6. 18 5.91

12929.5 14776. ti
lfi470. 7

412.2
561. 0 1:i2.s

21
>-:!

rn62a. 1

1 10 1 20 1 30
1 40

2.1

11 12

2o:m. 8 \!
22164.9

1 50 2 00

2.9 4.0 5.4 7.0

927.4
1145. 0
13~5. 4 1648.8

t11

242.5
2.5 2.5 2.4 . 2.4

'9

ts
30

8.6

8.6
8.5

5.6 5.5 5.5 5.5

269.5 9.5
9.4 9.4

9.3

B.6

7.8 7.6 7.5
7.3

1347.5 7.3 7.0

!l

6.8
6,6

TABLE VI.-Prqjectian Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

200 30'.

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)
I
I

ии-,,-----и-------1-1и---и--и--------Meridiunul 11rcs.

-

'

-9"
10"
~

--и

----------~----~+~

l

7"

8''

0''

30"

40"

50"

60"

II - и
1 1
i Mirmtcs

!

Cu-ordinates of cunnturo.

I
X.

и

1и

0

longit~1cle. IArc par.
l' 2

of'

Y.

~

----- ---188.5 8.5 B.5 8.4 8.4 B.4 188.3 8.3 8.3 8.2 8.2 188.2 8.2
iU

!

~хи'
t'l

I'

- - - - ----3
4

213. 5 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3 5.3 215.2 5.2 5.2 5. l 5.1 215. 1
r;,O

242.4 2.3 2.3

2.a
2.2 2.2

269.3 9.3 9.2 9.2 9.1
9.1

538.6 8.6
Cl.5

801'1. 0 7.8
7.7

1077.3
7.1

1346. 6 6.4
ti.1 Ii. 9

8.4 8.3 8.2 538.1 8.0 7.9 7.8 7.8
537. 7

7.6 7.4 7.3 807.2 7.0 6.9 6.8 6.G 806.5 6.4 6.2 6.1 6.0 805.8 5.7
5.(i

6.9 6.8 6.6 6.4 1076.2 6.0 5.9
5. 7

16Hi.fll 5. r,:, 5. :is

]''

2 3

30. 8 61. 6
12~l.

11

5. 7 5.5

5.12 4.85
4. 59 lli14. 32 4.0(i 3,7!) 3. &:J

4
5 6 7 8 9

92. 4

2

11

I

и
')Ir: r: .J и ._)
,~

Ii
11

184.7

M.9

5
(l

-.o .o .o .o .o
.o .o
.0 .0

.l .5
]. I) ]. !)

d

z ......
>".!

2.9 5.7
4. 2' 7. 4. 9. 4
11. 6
2fi. (}

t:rJ .t:J
l1l
.~

242.1 2.1 2.1 2. 0 2. 0 241. 9 и l. 9
], 9

269.1 9.0 9.0 8.9 8.9 268.8 8.8 8.7 8.7 8.7 268.6 8.6 8.5 8.5

1345.3 5. 0 4.8

I

4.G
4.4

I

24(). :3

277. 1

I
'

7
8

Ii>
>".!

9

t:rJ
[fl

5.5 107!i.3 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.6 1074.4 4.3
4.1

3.26
1612. fl!) 2.72

10 I ! 20

307.9

10
1ri

1344.2
3. 9
3. 7

7.6
7,5

:m
40 50

(l][J. 7 :1 и>и и '' !J:...l.h

.o
.0
и1

.0

c:i

I

8.1
t:l.l

5.0 5.0 4.9 214.9 4.!J 4.il 4.8 4.7 214.7 4.7 4.6 4.6 4.6 214.5 4.5

]. 8
]. 8

7.4 7.3 I
537.2

3.5 3. :J

2. 4!i 2. I!)
]. !J;J

12:11. 5 ' 15:l!l. 3 I 1847. 2
30[)4, 4

20
2rl

1G. '.l
72. :l

0
~
[fl

30
~l5

и1

104. l

l' 00

t

188.0 8.0 8.0

241. 7 и 1. 7
], 7 1. 6

134:J. l
2. B

JG! l. 66
]. 3!)

7.1
7.0 7. 0

7.9
7.9

], 6

8.4

6.9
53fi.8

5.4 5.3 805. 2
&.O 4.!J 4. 8

3.9 3.7 1073.5
3. 4

2.6 2.4 2.2
1341. 9 ]. 7
]. 5

]. 12 0.8(] 0.59

2 3 1> 4
11

I

i

>".!
l1l

.2

i!

5 6

!h!:m.o " fl
llOH:l. 3
]!2():10. 5

f):J41. G 7:lt:~. B 1!

:i

40

i'

4;; r,o 55
]'J (l()

"' .4
.5 .7
и !J

Hl.8 lf3(\. 2 2'.H. иI 2H9. :l 351'. l

d
~ ~

t:rJ

><
~

4111.

(l

I

187. 9 7.8 7.8 7.8

241. 5 1. 5
1. 5 1. 4 1. 4

7.7

261".4 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.2

Han. :1-l
10, lifi

i

6. 7

6.6

6.5 6.4
:.J36. 3

4.6 804.5 4.4 4.2

3.2 3.0 2.8
1072. 7

I. 3 1. 1

O!l. i!J O!l. (;2 O!J. 26

!!
11

Ii II

7 8
9 10

1/

1 IO

1.4
2. 1

I~

II 12

J4Ti7. 7 ' 1Gli24. !) II 11:'47:!, 1 11 :.?O;ll!l. 3 I
~:WiG.::i
1

1 20
1 30 J 40

:i.o
4. I
;J.
~J

1 50 2 00

'i.2

007. I 7W. 7 0:17,.i llfJi. ll 1411(1. 3 lliGfi. 4

0
?;!
00

""

░''

1157. 7 7.7

241. 3 ]. 3
1. 3

268.2
8. J 8. l 8.0 8.0

7.7

---~-и-----------ии

I

7.6 7.6

4.5
4.4 4.4

6.2 6.1
6. 1

1. 2 1. 2

6.0

I I

4. 1

4. 0

2.5 2.3 2.1 1. 9

1340.8 0.6

o. 4
0. 1

1608. !)!) t<. 72
8.45 8, 18

II

11

1339.9

1607.91

'I

.I

11

"'"' w
t.::>

*

TABLE VI.-Prfiection' Jhblcs-Coutinued.
LATITUDE

I-'

300 00',

If>.

1::..::1

*

Length in metres of ares of the parallel, (arc par.)

11
l,

I

'----------

MID.

.,,.
187:6 1.6
7.5 7.5 7.5 7.4

i
I

8"

9"

10"

20"

30"

40"

50"

:Mori<lional arcs.

.. I--- Co-ordinates of curvaturn ---ии----

60"
.

i
I

Minutes of

x.

-

----214.4

longitude. Arc par_

Y.

--и-----!----.
l"
~

(Y

2

1
3 l 5-

4.4

4.2 4.2
214.2

4.3 4.3

241.2 l. 1 J. I 1. 1

268.0

536.0

7.9
7.9 7. 9 7.8 7.8 267. 7
'I. 7

5.9
5.8 5.7 5.6 5.5

804.0

1071. 9
I. 8

i.o

1. 0

3.8 3.1 3.6 3.4 3.3
803.1 3. 0

1339. 9

9. 7

1.6 J. 4 1. 2 1. 0 1070, 9 o. 7
0.5 o. :J

9.5 9.3
9.0 8.8 1338. 6 A.4 8.1 7.9 7.7

1607. 91 7.65 7. :-IB .
7.11

30. 8
61.6

3

6.84
6,[i7

4
5 6
7

92.4 123.2
153. 9 184. 7 215.5 246.3 2i7. 1

l' 'l 3

-.0

4
5 6 7 8 9
JO 15 2(J
25

.o .o
и0

.1 .5
1.]

!;d
ttj

"d

1.9

0
!;d

.o
.o .u .o .o .o
иO
.]

6
7 -8

187.4
7.4

9
JI)
)l

7.3 7.3
7.3

4.1
4.1

4-1 4.0 214.0
3.9

240.9 0,9 0.9 0.8 0.8

535.4
5.3 5.2 5. l

5.3

1606. 30
6. 03

.0

7.6
7.6
7.5

2.9

2.7 2.6
802.5 2.3 . 2.2

5, 76 5,49
5.~u

8
[)

2.9 4.2 Ii. 7 7.5 9.5
11. 7 26.3

'"3

и-o
"ii '"3

\l:t
t".l

0.1 1070. 0
JO(i9. 8

JO

307.9
61fi.8 92a.7
12:3]. 5 15:3!l.4

:ti 13 i:t 15
)6

Iat.2 1.2
1.:.t

4.o

1.1 7.1

3. 9

3.8
213.8 3.8 3..7 3. 7 3.7
213.6

240.7 0.7 o. 7 0.6 0.6
240.5 fl.5 0.5 0.4

267.5 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.3 267.3 7.2 7.2 7. I 7.1 267.0 7.0
7.t> 6.9 6.9

535.0

4.8 4.7 4.6

4.9

2.1
1.9 801.8 1. 7 1.6 1.4 1.3
801.1 1. 0

9.6 9.4

1337. 5 7.2 7.0

20
l6n4.95

9.2
1069. l 8.9 8.7 8.5

6.8
G.6

4.68 4.41 4.14 3.87
1603. GO

30 40 50

46.8
n.1

c:::
"d

l'.fJ

30
f

.1

105.2
14:3. 2
187. 1

l:':l
!;d

.....

11 00
2

1847. 3

3r.

18'1'.1

18 19

11'

il

"░
~

1. l 7.0 7.0 7.0
fi.9 6.9 6. 8 6.8

534.5
4. 4 4.4 4.3 4.2

o. 4

~~

1336. 3 6.1 5.9 5.6

3H94.7

.2
и3

z

8.3
8.0 7. 8

5.4
1335. 2 5.0
"и 7

3. 32 3.05 2. 78 2. 51 1602.24
l. 97

3 4 5 6

554~.o

40
45

7:189. 4

5()
55

.4

92!36. 7
11084.1

.5
.7

236.8 2!i2.3 3$3. 7
421.0 573.0 748. 4 947.1 1169. 3 1414.8

"" tel
z
ti
'"3

186. 9

240.3
0.3 0.3

:i3

'4 ii

3.6 3.6
3,5

3.5

0.2 0.2
240.1

534. l 4.0 3.9 3.8 3.7
533.6

1068. 2

7 J. 70
8 9 JO

12931. 5 1477R8
Wl~6.!l

JO 00 I 10 I 20
1 1 1

.9
I. 5 2. 2 3. l

to.! '2l

0.8 0.7 0.6

7.6

и и
#fl

и

'llI

186.8 6.7 6.7 6.7

и

7.4
1067. 3

4.5
4.3

1. 4:3

11'
12

1.15

1817;1_5 21}:\20.8 22168.2

30
40
50 00

4.2
11.6 7. 3

2

16t:l3.8

213.5
3.4 3.4 3.3

0.1
O, l

266.8 6.8
6.7 6.7 6.6

8011.4
0,3

3.5 3.4
3.4 3.3

1331, l
3,8

7. 1
6.9 6.7 6.5

1600,88
0,06 1599.79

6.6

11.0

3.3

o.o

o.o

0.2

3.6
3.4 3.2

o. 31

0,61

799.9

TABLE VI.-Proje41ion 1hbles-Coutinued.

.
Min.

L.LTtTUDJ: 300 30и .
-------

Length in metres of arcs of .the parallel, (arc par.)

Co-ordinates of curvature.

7''

8"

......_...
30'

I

9"

IO"

20"

3()1и

40"

_:J
1333.2
2.~

l!eriJional n.rcs.

60"
i
--~---

Minutes of x. I longitude. Arc par./
I

0

Y.

"'::!

8

J:Il
ttj

31
32

186.5 6. 6 fl.6

213.3
3. 3

240.0 239.9
9.9

26G. 6
6.fi

33 31
31)

6,5
6.5

3.2

3.2 3.2
3.1
213.1 3. l

6.5 186.4 6.4 6.4 6. 3 186.. 3
6.. 3 6.. !l

9.8 9.8 9.8 239.7 9.7

6.5 6.5
6.5

.

533. 3 3.2 3.1 3.0
2.9

799.9
9.8 9.6

1

6.4 266.4
6. 3 6.3

2.8 532.7
2.6

9.5 9.4 9.2 799. 1
. 8.9

1066.5 6.3 6.2 6.0 5.8 5.6
1065.4

2.5
2. 3

2.7

2.1

1599.79 9.52 9.25 8.97 8.70 8. 43
159~.

l"

2
3

30. B
61. 6
9~.4

l'

4 5
6

.

2 3
4

-.0 .0

.o
.0

].

~ ....

a

l:l3. 2

1.

36

:fr 38 39 40

1331. 8
]. 6

6.4

3.0 3.0 2.9

9.6

9.6
9.6

6.2 6.2
261l. I 6. l

2.5 2.4 2.4 532.3
2.2
2. 1 2.0 1. 9

8.8 8.7 8.5

5.3 5. 1 ,4.9 4. 7 1064.5

15 7.88
7.131

154. 0 184.1
21;,.5

5
6 .7

7
8
9

1. 3
], l

7.33
7.06

246.3 277.l 307.9
615.8
9~:J. 1~31.

8
9

0.9 1330. 6 0. 4
0.2

10
20

10

42
43

u

44
46
46

212.9 2.9 2.8
2.8

239.5 9.5 '9:4 239.3
9,.4

7J8.4
8.3
8. 1

9.4 '

6.2 6.2
186.1

6,0 6.0

4.3
4.0
4.1

1500.78
6. r,1

30

2.8
212.7 2.7
2.6

5.9 265.9

8.0
7.8

3.8

29. 7 1329.5
9.3

o.o

6.24
5.96

40 50 I' 00
2 3
4

7 7

JG3!f.6

15 20 25 30
35

.o .o .0 .o .o .o .0 .o
.1 .J

3.

I:':! ""' t:::!
Cl'J

.5. 'и
J 1.
26. 47.

4.

>

8

9.

8 t"1
rA

73.

106. JH.

c 0 > Cl'J
8

5.69
. lti95. 41 '
4.59

47

48 49
M

6.1
6.1
6.0

9.3
!J.2

u.9

w
{)S

2.6
2.6

6.0
186.0 5.9

9.2 9.1
239.1 9.1

5.8 5.8 5. 7

531.8 I. 7 1. 6 l. 5 J. 4
531. 3

797.7 7.6
7. 4 7.3

7.2 797. 0
6.9

1063. 6 3,4 3.2 3.1
2.!l

9.0
8.8 8.6

5.14 4.86 ,и

I

1847.5 3tl!l5.0 ии42и,, " I "'"
7a90.U

4.31
1594.04
3.76 3.48 3.21 2.93

5 6

11084. [l

9~3i'. и1

I
1
I

40 45 5()
55

.2 .3 и4 .5

11'.l!.1. 2:10.
295.
33~

c.:
~

Cl'J

-<l
t"1
~

.7
.9 ]. 5

'и

JO 00

52
64
65

212.5
2.5 2.5

265.7
5.&

106'/. 7
2.5

5.9 6.9
fi.8

2.4
2.4
212.4 2.3

9.0 9.0 8.9
238. 9' 8.8 8.8 8.8

и

5; 6

5.5

5.5

l. 3 ]. 2 I. I 1. 0

1328. 4
8. l

7 8.
9

129!3'2. 4
1477!1. 9
](j(jz7,
2il3~2.

IO
20

42:;. 7;;;,, 8
9:ifi. 5 11811. 9 142il. 9
Gi~~

"'!I
0

4

6. 7 6.6
6.5
796. 3 li.2

2.3 2.1 2.0
1061. 8 1. 6

7.9
7. 7

7.4 1327.2 7.0 6.8

I 12
11

10

1817 4. !)

1 I 2
1

4 2:1169. 9

30 40 50
IJO

2.2 3.2 4.4 5.8
7.5

...
00

~

'" i:.:l

171)0, 6

56
1)7

185.8
f>.8 5.7

265. 4

530. 9
0,6
I

59
60

l'>8

5.7
5.7

2.3
2.3

5.4 5.4
5.3 5.3

n.s o. 7
i

159?,66

2.2

I

8.7

0.5

6.0 5.9 o.8

]. 4

~;:::

G.5

~. 38 ' 2. IO 1. h3

6.3

1J>5

I-'
l~

*

<:.ll

TABLE VJ.-Prcyection-Table8-Continued.
LATITUDE

..... l-:l
C7.l

31░ 00'.
--...

*
--------------

----,-..,_-----и--и ------ -

---

..

--------- ------------------------------------

Lengt11 in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

i
I

Co-ordinat~s of curvature.
Y.

:Min.

1-------...,-------,------.--------c------.----.,------~---и-- 1

Meridional arcs.

- - - - ---и и и---и-и и и -- иии-

7"

8"

9"

, 10"

20"

30"

40"

50"

60"

--1и----1----11--- 0и I 2 3 4 5 185. 7 5. 6 5. 6 5. 6 5. 6 5. 5 185. 5 5.5 5. 4 5. 4 5.4
185. 3

-26!l. 3 5. 2 5. 2 5. 1 5. 1 . 5. 0
265. 0 4.9 4. 9 4. 8 4.8

1-----~----~:----

I

Minutes of X. longitude. Arc par.
1' 2 3 4 -. 0 иo ,0 .0

---1---.5
I. I I. g

I

212. 2 2. 2 2. 1 2. 1 2. 1 2. 0
212. 0 1.9 1. 9 1. 9 1.8 211. 8

238. 7 8. 7 ~- 6 8. 6 8. 6 8. 5
2~. 5

53(\ 5 0. 4 0. 3 O. 2 0. I 0. 1
5:10. () 5119.9 9. 8 9. 7 9.6

795. 8 5. ll 5. 5 5, 4 5. 2 5. l 794. 9 4.8 4. 7 4. 5 4.4

1061. 0 o. Fl 0. 7 0. 5 II. 3 1060.1 1059. 9 9.7 9. 6 9. 4 9.2 1059. 0 8.8 8. 6 8. 4 8.2
1058.1 7. 9 7. 7 7.5 7. 3

1326. 3 6. l 5. 8 5. 6 5. 4 5. 1
1324. 9 4.7 . 4. 4 4. 2 4.0

11191. 55 1, 27 1. 00 0. 72 o. 44 15!JO. JG
1589. 89 9.(il 9. :J:J 9. 05 B.78 1588. 50 8.22 7. !14 7. 6fi 7.38 1587.10 6. 82 6. 54 6.27 5. 99

1" 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
JO 20

30. 8 61. 6 9~. 4 123. 2 1S4. 0 18-i.8 215.f> 24G.:J 277. J
307.!J lil5. !J !Jj:3,tl rn:n.1 lu:J!.J. 7 1847.6 36БJ5. 3 5G42.!l 7:l9o. 5 92:.>''. 1 11085.8

и1

l:d
trj

"d

J
8 9 10 11

6

I

8.4 8. 4 8. 4 8.3 238. il

5 6 7 8 9
10
l~

.0 .0 .0 .O .0
.0 .0 . IJ .1 .I .2 . :1 .4 . r, .7
i. o ]. 5

3. O 4.3 G. 8 7.6 9. 7
11.9 26. 8 47. 7 74.5 107. 3

l:i:I ..,
0

0

...,
t.r:l
Ul

~

Ill

12
13 14

5.3
5. 3 5. 2 5.2 18.'\.2 5. 1 5. 1 . 5.1 5. o

l.8
l. 7 l. 7 1.7 211.6 J. 6 1. 5 1.5 1. 5

8.2
8. 2 8. I 8.1 238.l 8, o 8. 0 7.9 7. 9

15
16 17 18 19 20

264. 7 4.7 4. 7 4. 6 4.6 264.5 4. 5 4. 4 4.4 4. 3 264.3 4.2 4,2 4.1 4.1 264. 0 4.0 4.0 3.9 3.9

529. 5 9.4 9. 3 9. 2 9.1
529.0 8. 9 8. 8 8.8 s. 7

794. 2 4,1 . 4. 0 3. 8 3.7 793.5 3. 4 3. 3 3.1 3. o 792.9 2.7 2.6 2. 4 2.3 792. l 2.0 1.!1' 1.7 1.6

1323. 7 3.5 3. 3 3. 0 2.8 1322.6 2. 4 2. I 1.9 1. 7 1321.4 U!
1.0

30 40 5lJ
1' 00 2 3 ,, 5 6

20 25 30 и 35 40 4:> 50 55

c:::
"d

t:>:l

l:d

146.0 190. 8 241.4 2!J8. o 360. 6 429. 2 584. 2 7H:l.O 9G5.7
119~.2

z

..,
z
t.r:l

H

tl

21 22 23 24 , 25 26 27 20 29 30

185.0 5.0 4.9 4. 9 4.9 184. 8 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.7

211.4 1.4 1,4 ]. 3 l.3 211. 2 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1

237.9 7.8 7.8 7. 7 7.7 237. 6 7.6 7.G 7.5 7.5

528.6 8.5 8.4 8. 3 s.2 528. 1 8.0 7.9 7.8 7.7

1057. l 7.0 6;8 (', G 6.4 1056. 2 6.0 5.8 r,.6 5.5

0. 7 o.5 1320. 3и 0.0 1319.8 9.6 9.3

1585.71 5.43 5.15_ 4. H7 4.us 1584. 30 4.0'.! 3.74 3.46 3.18

7 8 9 10
Jl

12

1203'1. 4 14i8l. l IGG2d.7 l847G.3 . 2032t. 0 22171.6

1░ 1 1 1 1 I 2

on
JO

z

ti:j

>-3

20 3() 40
W

oo

2.:J 3.3 4.5 ti. 9 1.1

144\!. 5 1716.7

I I

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

31░ 30'.

Length in metms of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

Co-ordinates of curvature.

Min. - - - - 7"

-8"
9" 10"
20"

30"

40"

50"

-- ---30'
31
32

211.l 1. l I. 0 I. 0 (l,9 0.9 210.9 0.8 ll.8 0. 8. o. 7 210.7 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.5 210.5

I

60"

--1
I
18

Meridional ar cs.

~~;~:t~sorl-;-r-;-1ongitude. , Arc par.
l' 2 3

0
l-<j
>---3

----

-

-30. 8 GI. 6 92. 4

:::::

33
34

35
36 37 38 39 40 41 42 4:! 44 45 46 47 48 49

184. 7 4.7 4.6 4.6 4.6 4.5 184.5 4.5

237.5
7.4 7.4 7.4 7.3 7. 3 237.2 7.2 7. 1 7. 1 7.1 237. 0 7.0

263.9
3. 8 3. 8 3. 7 3. 7 3.6
263.6 3,5 3.5

527. 7 7. 6 7.5 7. 4 7. и1 7.3 527.2 7.1 7. IJ 6. !J

791.6 l. 5 I. 3 ). 2 I. 0 0.9 790. 7 . O. G 0.5 o. :i 0.2
7[)1),

10fi5.5

5.3 5.1
4. 9 4.7 4.5 1054.3 4.1 4.0 3.8

1319. 3 9. l 8. 9 8.6 8.4

158:~.

l"

:1,90

2.fi2 2.:H
2. OG J, iS

a

2

1-.0
.0 .0

ttj

.1
.5
1. l

q

.....
>---3

z

e.1

I
(/

4
5
G

I 23.2 l r.4. 0
~

4

.0

I. 9

ttj

4.4 4.4 4.4
184. :i 4.3 4. 3 4.2 4.2 184.2

:u a. 4

6.8
526. 7 tl,6 6.5
0. 4

a. o

1317.9 7. 7 7.4 7" 7.0 1316. 7 (i. 5 6.3 6, I) 5.8 1315. 6 5.3 5. l 4. fl

W'll.50 1. 21 0. !I:!
0. i;;, 0,37

~

7
8

1'34. 8 If>. (i ~ Hl. 4

.,
8 9

5 G

. ()
. ()

.0 .O
.II

3.0
f>.

lj
00 >---3

4. 3 g

7.7
!),

>>---3

9
10
21)

~ i7.2

7

:: 08. 0
~

15. !l

6.9 6.9
6.8 236. 8 6.8 6. 7 6.7

263.3 3. 3 3.2 3.2

0

1053. 4

15Sfl. 09
if). i'lO H. ;,,~ !). 24

:m
41)

!. ~:1. !)

10 15 20

7tl9. g 9. fl
!l.O

:J.2
3. 0
2. il

h ll. 8

50
1' 00

IC

m.s

25 30
~
~

и0 и0 . (J .l .l

12.0
27. l 48. l
71). иt

t,rj 00.

c
;,..
rtl >---3 rtl

0

rno. 4
H7.'1

3.2
263. 1 3. I 3.0 3. 0 2.9 262.9

6.a 520.2 6.1
{i.

9.5
789.3 9 0 9. I 8.9
.~

2.6
101i2. 5
2.3 2.1 l. f) 1. 7

8. !Jo
1:-iiil. (j7
ti. ;\9

2
3

4.1
4.1 4. I

o.5

4

50 51 52
53

4.0
184.0

0.4 0.4 0.3 210. 3 I (I, 3 i 0. 2 0.2 i 0.1 I
I

u

6.6
236.6 6.!i 6.5 6и'-' ~ 6.4 236. 4 6. :J 6.:l 6.2

5.9 5.8
52'5.8 5.7
5.6

tUJ 7. d:.l

r,

3l J;). r, fl[ t:!.:l 7;, )I. l [h lc'.!l

IE 47.8

.2
.3
.4

W2.l>

c::
p;)

4;,

00
~

.6 .8 J.0 1. (j 2. :1 :1. :1 4. G
6. l i. ()

aoo.8

21:1. 6

-<i
t,rj

3G4.0
43:1. 1
f).~!J. f) 7711. 0 D7-t. !J 1211;!, l i4;;rи. 8 17:l2,5

><:
>tj

(j

llt tlG.7

8.8
7'38.6

4. (j
1314.4
4. I
:~. !)

7. 54
1577. 26
fi_ !)7
(i,(i!J

10:;]. 5

7 8
!I
]()

4.0
3.9
3.9 3.!l

54 55

!

2.8 2.8
2. 7

8.5 8.3
8.2
8. I

2.7
262.6 :t.6

5.5 5.4
!;2G. 3
5.~

o. fl

1. :l l. l

rnr ll. 4 Ui ."\2. 2 lfi( lll. 0 181 77. 8
211~ ;l;j,f,

JOOO 1 JO I 20 1 30 1 40
l
[>I)

0
p;)

.....
00
~

'-"'

O. B
]QGO,(j

:u

3. 7

(i. 4 l

6, 12
l!J7fl. Hl
d. ''"

11 l:l

221 73.3

2

()()

56
57 58 59 60

183.8
3.8 3.8 3. 7 3. 7

210.1 0.1

o. 0 o. u

I o. o I
!

787.9
7.
(j

7.,,
1.a

0 ..1

2.5
2.5 2.4

I

'

!i,J fl.0

0.2

1313. 2 :i. 0 2. 7

"

cи

r,. '.!7

I

o. 0

6.2

4. ll

7.3

IOиl!J. 8

I

2.G
2.2

4.!Jd

i

4. 70

,I
---------~--

...... * ,,.,,
-1

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LA nT11DE

.......
t-.:1

32░ ooи.

00

-------- и - - и Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)
Coиordiuutes of cul'rnture.

*

,----....-------Min. !---и---------------.. . .
7"
g. '/

I

ion

I

20'' 20''.. _ .. _

~~~:I 30'/
787.3 7.2

40//

50'/

(JON

Merillional nrc.

I! :Minute~ ofll
l' 2 3

X.

I

Y.

--1 IY
l

I
11!!!. 7 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.6 и3.5
183. 5

1----1----1 210.0 262.4 236.2
209.9 9.9 9.8 9.8 9.8
209. 7

1-----1
524. 9. 4. 8
1049. 8 9.6
!),

и--.---------,
1312.2 2.0
I. 8 I. 5 I. 3 1. l
1:\74. 70

111,.ngitude. Arc par. ---1---

6.2

и
5

2 3

6. 1
6. 1
6. 0

2.3 2.3
2.2 262.2 2. i 2.1
2.0

2.a

2.4

4.7 4.6
4.5

7.1
6.9

4 9.2

4. 41 4. 13 :J. 84

6.0

4.4
524.3 4.2 4.1
4.0

6.8 6.6

9.0 8.9
1048. 7 8.5 8.3
8. l
7. !)

l" 2 3 4

30. 8 61. 6

i

-,0

9:.!.-1 In.2

3.56 3.27

4
5
6

5
6

154, 0

10
11
12

6 7 8 9

3.5

3.4
3.4 3. 4

9. 7 9.7
9.6

235. !J. 5.9
t;,!)

786.5
6. 3 6. 2 6. I 5. 9

131(1и 8
0.6

1572.98
\!. 70

184.S
l!IG. 6

7
8
!)

0.3
(l,

24H. 4

5.!l

I

9.6
209. 5.

2.41 2. 13
I. 84 157 l. 55 1. 27

277.2
30fl. 0 616.0 924.0
1'231.9

7 8 9
10

.o .o .o .0 .o .o

.0

.1 ..5
]. 1 1. 9

t:::1 tzJ
"d

0
~ ...,

3.0
4. :J
5.9 i. 8 9. 8

0
>:rj

.o .o
.o
.0

...,

::i::
tzj

5.8

2.0
261. 9 I. 9 1. 8 1. 8 1. 7 261. 7 1. 6 I. 6 I. 5

3.9
523.9
3.8 3. 7

1309. 9 1309.6
!l.4 9. l

10

183.3 3.3
3. 3

13 14
15
16

3.2 3.2
183. 2 3. l 3. I

9.5 9.5 9.4 9.4
209.3 9.3

235.7 5.7 5.6 5.6 5.6
235.G 5.5 5.4
5.4 5.4

785.8 5.6
5.5 5. 3

20

1047.7
7.5
7.3

:10

.

40

21) 2:;

15

12. l
27. :J
4~.5

3.6 3.5

5.2
785.1

7.1 6.9
1046. 7 6.5

8.9 8.7
1308.4 8.2
8.0 7.7

0. 98 : o. 10 I
0. 41 '\

50
l' 00 2 3 4

1539.9
1847. 0

iO

.1 и1

7~.9

"" Cl "d
tzJ
~

109. 2

17
18

19
00
21 22

3.1
3.0 183.0 3. 0 2.9

9.3 9.2 9.2

523.4 3.3 3.2
3. l

1570. 12
fi!J. 83

1.5
261. 4 I. 4 1. 4

3.0 522.9 2.8
2.7 2.6

4.9 4. 8 4.6 4.6
784.3 4.2
4.1

6.4
6. 2

6.0 1045.8 5.6 5.4 5.2
5.0 1044. 8

7.5
1307.2 7.0 6.8 6.5 6.3
1306.0

9.55 9.26 8. 97
1568. 68
t<..40

u

36!15. 8 504'.l, 8 7391. 7

35 40

.2

4:; 50
55 io 00 i ro 1 ~ l ~ I W l ~
2 00

.3 .1 .6
.8
). 0 ]. 6

148.7 19~. 2
2~:.. 8

z

.....

tzJ

9239.6
11087. 5

:J03. 4 3li7. l
4'.lfi. 9 {j~J4. 7

"" z
t::I
l:'j

6

z

209.2 9. l

235.3
5.3

7 8
9,

12930,, 4 147i-'3. 4
10631. 3

r-3

23 24 25
26
<;ff

9.1

5.2

2.9 2.9
182. 8

9.0 9.0
209.0

5.2
5.1

8. 11

JO

1.3
1.3

3.9
3. 8

J84i9.2
211327.1

2.4 3.4
4. 7

7i6.7
95:3.0

2.5
52~.4

7.1'<3
7. 54
I

11
12

22175.0

6.2 8.1

7 1468.5 1747.6
1~13.

2.8

28 29 30

2.8 2.7 2.7

8.9 8. 9
8.8 8.8

235. 1 5.0 5.0 5.0 4, 9

261.2 1. 2
1и

783.6

2.3
2.~

3.5
3. 3

1.1 l i 1. 0

2. 1

2.0

:1. 2 3.0

4.6 4.4 4.3 4.1

5.8 5.6
5. :1

1567, 25
6. \)6

i

5.1

6.67 6.38
6.09

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE 320

30'.

--иии

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)
и---~

!
Meridional arcs. 50"

---Co-ordinates of curvature . Minutes of X.

....
~

и

Min. 7" 8" 9" 10" 20" 30" 40"

30' 31 32 33 34 35
36 WT 38 39

""' 2.7 2.6 2.6 2. 6 2. 5
182. 5 2.5 2.t 2. 4

208. 8 8.8 8.7

e.1
8. 7 8. 6 208. 6 8.5 8.5 8. 5

.... 9 4.9 4.8 4.8 4. 7 4. 7
234. 6 4.6 4.6 4. 5

261. 0 1.0 0.9 o.9 O. 8 0. 8
260. 7 0.7 o.6 0. 6

'"" 0 1.9 1.8 i.1 1. 6 1. 5
521. 5 1.4 1.3 1. ~ 1.1 521. 0 o. 9 0.8 0.1 o. 6 520. 5 o. 4 o. 3 0. 2 o. l 520. 0 519. 9 9. 8 9,7 9.6

783. 0 2.9 2.8 2.6 2. 5 2. 3
782. 2 2.0 1.9 J. 7 1.6 781. 5
1. a

104< I 3.9 3.7 3.5 3. 3 3. 1
1042. 9 2.7 2.5 2. 3 2.1 1041. 9 1. 8 1.6 i.4 i. 2
и

1305. I 4.8 4.6 4.4 4. 1 3. 9
J 303. 6

~I
5.80 5.51 5.23 4. 94 4. 65 1564. 36 I 4.07 I 3.78 I 3. 49 3.20 1562. 91 2. 62 2.33 2.04 1. 75
111

60''

2и 3

'"

longitude. Arc par.I
I' 2
3

!

Y.

~
~

------:

l:.>i

4
5 6 7 8 9
10 20 30 40 50 l' 2 3 4 5 6 8 9
JO

30, и 61.6 92.4 123.2
154. 0 184. 8 215. 6 246.4 211.2 308.0 616. 0 924. 0 1232. 1 1540.1 1848. 1 3696, I 5544. 2 7392. 3 9240. 3 11088..1 12936.5 H784. 5 166:12. 6 18480. 7 20328.7 2:!176.8
11

-.o I
.0 I

.0 I
.o

.1 .5
1.1

!z:
,_.

~
~

4

I

2.0

40
41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55

2.4
182. 3 2. s 2.3 2.2 2. 2 11!2. 2 2. t 2. 1 2. 1 2. 0

8.4
208. 4 и 8. 4 t!.3 s.a e. 2 208. 2 8. 2 8. 1 B. l 8. 0 208. 0 8. 0 7. 9 7.9 7.8
201. s 7.8 7.7 1. 1 7.6

4.5
234. 4 4. 4 4.3 4.a 4. s 234. 2 4. 2 4. 1 4. I 4. 0 234. 0 4. 0 3. 9 3.9 3.8

0.5
260. 5 o. 4 0.4 o.a o. 3 260. 2 o. 2 0. l 0. 1 o. 0 260. 0 0. O 259. 9 9.fl 9.8

3.4 3.1 2. 9 2. 7 1302. 4 2. 2 1.9
i.1

5 6 7 8
9

.o .o .o
.0

.0

3.1 4.4 6.0 7.8
9.9

t:l

rn
flo<1.2

~

I
1 1

~

1.2

o. 9

1.0

i. 5

I I
1
1'1

10 15 20 25 30

.o
. () .0 .1 .l

12.2 27.5 49.0 76.5
110.1

c

0 ~
~

oo

780. 7 o. 6 o. 4 0. 3 o. 2 780. O 779. 9 9. 7 9.6 9.4

1041. 0 o. 8 o. 6 O. 4 o. 2 1040. O 39. 8 9. 6 9.4 9.2

1301. 2 1. o 0. 7 0. 5 o. 3 1300 0 1299. 8 9. !) 9.3 9.0

1561. 46 !1 i. 17 I o. f37 i 0. 58 , o. 29
и1

35 40 45
50

.2 .3 .4
.6

55
JO l 1 1 1 1

.8 f.0 1. 6 2. 4 3. [i 4. 8 fl. 4

149.9 195.8 247.8 306.0 370.2 440.6
[i!J!J. 7 783. 3 991. 3 1223. 9 1480. 9

~
~

""1 t:.l
w:l
~
~

182. O 2. 0
I. 9

l.9 1.9 Ull. s l.8
1.8 1. 1 1.7

1560. 00 59. 71 9. 41 9.12 8.83

7

1

I
и1

I

ll 12

00 10 20 30 40 50

.... ~
~

I

56
5~

233. s 3.7
3.7

259. s 9.7
9.7

519. 5 9.4
9.:3

779. s 9.1
9.0

10:m. o 8.8
8.6 s. 4 8.3

1298. 8 8.5
8.3

1558. 54 ll.25
7.95 1. w ! 7.37 11

2 00

" '

""".

.

58

59 60

a. 6

3.6

9. o 9. 2 9.6 и - - 9.1

e. s
8.7

e. o
7.8

i

\

Iи и - - -

c',.i;>

~

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

~

...

0

330 00'.

.
:Min.

*

-------- ------и---

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

!
50''

I
Meridional arcs.

Co-ordinates of curvature.

--11 7"

8"

9''

10"

I

20"

30"

40"

60"

I

Minutes X. longitude. Arc par.

ofl

Y.
---.-1
!:ll l"J
"d

-;l 2 3 4

181. 7 -1-207-.-6--+-2-33-.-6-i--25--9-,6--i 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.6 J,5 181. 5 1. 5 1.4 J.4 1. 3 181. 3 1. 3 1.2 1. 2 1.2 181. 1 l. l 1.1и 1. o 1.0 181. 0 0.9 o. 9 o.9 0. 8 7.6 7.6 7.S 7.5 7.5 207. 4 7. 4 7.3 r.3 7. 3 207. 2 7. 2 7.1 7.1 7.1 207, 0 7. 0 6,9 6. 9 .6.9 206. 8 6.8 6. 7 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.4 9.5 9.5 9.4 9.4 9,3 259. 3 9. 2 9.2 9,1 9. l 259. 0 9. O 8,9 8. 9 8.8 258. 8 8. 7 8,7 8. 6 8.6 258. 5 8.5 8. 4 8.4 8. 3

5~--778.?
9.0 B.9 8.8 8. 7 8.6 518. 5 8. 4 8.3 8.2 8. 1 518. 0 7. 9 7.8 7. 7 7.7 517. 6 7. 5 7.4 7. 3 7.2 517. 1 7.0 6. 9 6.8 6. 7 8.a A.4 8.2 8.1 8.0 777. 8 7. 7 7.5 7.4 7. 2 777. I 6. 9 6.8 6. 6 6.5 776. 3 6. 2 6,0 5. 9 5.7 775. 6 5.4 5. 3 5.1 5. 0 774. 9 4. 7 4. 5' 4. 4

I

10~ ~97. 8 ~7. 37 1--~,
8.1 7.9 7.7 7.5 и7.3 1037. l 6. 9 6.7 6.r. 6. 3 1036. 1 5. 9 5.7 5. 5 5.3 103S. I 4. 9 4,7 4. 5 4.3 103!. I 3.9 3. 7 a.5 3. 3 1033. l 2. 9 2. 7 2. 5 7.6 7.3 7.1 6. 8 6.6 1296. 3 6. 1 5.8 5.6 5. 4 1295. 1 4. 9 4.6 4. 4 4.1 1293. 9 3. 6 3.4 3. 1 2.9 1292. 7 2.4 2. 2 1.9 l. 7 1291. 4 1. 2 o. 9 0. 7 7,08 6.78 6.49 6.19 5.90 Jr'55. 61 5. 31 5.02 4.72 4. 43 1554. 14 3. 84 3.55 3. 25 2.96 1552. 66 2. 37 2.07 J. 78 1.48 1551. 19 0.89 o. 60 o.3o 0. 01 2 3 4 6 7 8 9 JO 20 30 40 50

30.-.8----"l---1,-I 61,6 92,4 123.2 154.0 184. 8 215, 6 246. 4 277.2 308. 0 616.l 924. 1 1232. 1 1540.2 1848.2 3696. 4 5544. 6 7392. 8 9241.0 ll089. 3 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 2G 30 35 40 45 50 55 1░00 1 IO 1 20 I 30 1 40 1 50 2 00

-. 0

.o
.0 .0 .0 и0 .0

.0 .O

.5 1.1 2.0 3. L 4. 4 6. 0 7. 9 10.0 12. 3 27.8 49. 3 77. 1 111.0

0 !:ll
;.'J

5

'3,4

n

0

6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1$ 19

233. 3 3. 3 3.3 3.2 3. 2 233. 1 3. 1 3.0 3. 0 2.9 232. 9 2. 8 2.8 2. 8 2.7 232. 7 2.6 2. 6 2.5 2. 5

..,
::Il
t;:l
00

╗j

.o

-

.o

.0 .1 .1 .2 .3 и4 .6 ,8

"O

c::

l".l
~

to

2 3 4 5 6

l ' 00

I

.21 ~ 23 24 25
26 fl7 ~ W

6.1
6. 7

7 8 9 10 11 12

12937. 5 14785. 7 166:33.9 18482. 1 - 20330,3 22178. 6

I

1. 7 2. 5 3.6 4. 9 6.5 8. 5

1.1

I

151. 1 197.4 249.8 308.4 373.2

z

......

1-3
t;:l

!2l

t1

444.1 604.5
789. 5

z ..,

l".l

999.3
1233. 7 1492.8 1776. 4

ao

0.1l o. 8 o. 7 O. 7

o. ,

206. 6 6. 6 6. 5 &. 5 6. s

232. 5 2. 4 2. 4 2. 3 2. a

258. 3 8. 2 8. 2 B. l s. i

516. 6 6. 5 6. 4 6. 3 6. 2

и

4. 3

2. 3

o. 4

1549. 71 9. 41 9. 12 8. 82 8. 52

I

~--'---~--'-~----'-~~--'--~-_.'.---~~'-~--~-'---~-_:_-~~---'--~~~-~-~~~..'..-~~---'-'-~-~-~~.,.--~---.---

TABLE YI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LAиnru11E 330 30'',

----------Min.

~~-----

---ии---и - - - - и----r---иj
50''

-----~--

Length in metres Qf arcs Qf the parallel, (arc par.)
--

7"

8"

!Y'

10"

-:JO' 31 32 33 31

I

20"

30//

40"

I

()()"

I
1

J' "и"''"'"" ,, """""
MФidIDMI '"''

I Minutes of
[

0

X.

I

Y.

longitude. Arc par.

...,
~

>.oj

180.7 0,6 0,6 0.6 0.5 0.5 180.5 0.4 0.4 206.5 6.4 6.4 6.4 6.3 6.3 206.2 6.2
6.1 6.1

I'-------- ---- 1290. 4 o. 2 89, 9 9.7 9. 5 9. 2 1289. 0 8. 7 8. 5 8. 2 a o 1287. 7 7.5 1. 2 7.0 6. 7 1286. 5 6.2 6. o 5.7 5.5 1285. 2 5.0 4.7 4.5 4.2 1284. 0 3.7
3.5

l:z:l

232.3 2.2 2.2 2.1 2.1

258. l

.35
36
37 38
39

2.1
232.0 2.0 1.9 1. 9 ]. 8 231. 8 I. 7 ], 7 I. 7 1.6 231. 6 1. 5 ]. 5 I. 4 ). 4 231. 3 J. 3 1. 3 1. 2 1. 2 231. l
I. l

8.0 8.0 7.9 7.9 7.8 257.8 7.7 7.7 7.6 7.6 257.5 7.5 7.4 7.4 7.3 257.3 7.2 7.2 7.1 7.1 257.0 7.0 6.9 6.9 6.8 256.8 6. 7 6.7 6.ll 6.6

516. 2 6. I 6.0 5.9 5,8 5.7 515.6 5.5

774.3 4. I 4.0 3.8 3. 7 3.5 773.4 3. 2

1032.3 2. l 2.0 1. 8 1. 6 1. 4
1031. 2 1. 0 0.8 0.6 0.4

154Fl. 52 i[ 8. 22 lj 7. 93 I 7.63 i 7. 34 .
1. u4

l'"
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 0 10 20 31)
4ll

30.8 l\ s1. 6 , 92, 4 1 123.2 i1
ii
I

1' 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 ao 35 40 4a 50 55 JO 00 1 JO J . 20 1 30 I 40 1 50 2 00

-. 0 .o ,0 .0 иo .o . () . () . () иo .0 .0 .1 .1 и2 . :l и5
.fi

.1 и5 l, l 2.0 3. 1 4.5 6. 1 8. 0 10. 1 12. 4 28. 0 49. 7 77. 7 111. 9 152. 3 191". 0 251. 5 310.7 37(i. o 447,5 609. l 795. 6 10Ctl. 0 1243. I 1504. 1 1790. [)

c::и z ...... ...,
t."l

I

6.2

0.3

5.4 5.3
5.3 515. l 5.0

3. 1
2.9

40 41
(2

0.3

2.8
772.6 2.5 2.3 2.2 2.0 771. 9 J. 7
I. 6 I. 4

1546. 74 1[ 6. 44 11 6. 15 II 5. 85 I 5. 55 'и 1545. 25 4.% 4. 66 4.36 4. 06 l:i43. 76 3.46 3. 16 2.86 2.56 1542. 26
l. 96 'i I. 06 !1 J. :JG I

I'

154. o [; 184.8 21~. 6 i. 24h. 4 [i 27i. 3 I 308. 1 ()16. I 924. 2 l'l:l'J.2 u40, a 1848. 4
3ti96. 7

t:::I
00

>-J

..., "' "
l'i
{f.l

180.3
0.2 и0.2 0.2 0.1 180. l 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 179.9 9.9 9.!f

43
44

45

206.0 6.0 6.0 5.9 5.9 205.8 5.8 5.8 5.7 5.7 205.6 5.6 5.6 5.5 5.5 205. 4 5.4 5.4 5.3 5. 3

4.9
4.8
4. 7

1030.2 30.0 29,8 9.6
9.4

I'

I :I

I'

(:l

I
:

!

50 l' 00 2 '.J 4 5 6 7 8
9 10

ii I'

0 I>-

...,
{f.l {f.l

47

46

48
49

50
51

514. 6 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.2 514.1 4.0
3. 9

1029. 2 9.0 8.8

I:
I

). 3
771. 1 1. ()

A.6 8.4

I
I

и

52
53 M
55
56

9.8 9.8
179.8 9.7 9.7

3.8 3.7 51:1,6 3.5 3.4 3.3 3. 2

0.8 0.7 0.5
77fl.4

1W8.2 8.0 7.8 7.6 7.4 1027. 2 7.0 6.8
6.(l

11 1.0() II 1:!

5545. I 7393.5 I; 9241. s )1()90.2 ., ' 12938. 5 14786. 9 1663G. 3 I 1841'.i:l. 6 ! 20:332, o !и 22180.4 I

I~

I\

c::

-<
t'l
>-< >.;

~

.s l. J 1. 7 2. (i 3. (j
f>. 0

I

0
~

....
00

6.6 8.6

C-и

""'

1540.76

57

58
59

9.6
9.6

I. 0 1. 0
0.9

611

o. 2 o. l 769.9 9.8

0.46
0.16

6.4

3.2 3.0

1539. 56

39. t!G

I',l

I

--

-------~~----

I

11

I

I

I-'

..

......

~

TABLE Vl.-Pr<dection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDБ 340

1-1
~ ~

ooи.

Length in metres of Mee of the parallel, (arc par.)

--------и--------------. ------и------11.:- -I i Co-ord inates of curvature.
-и------------ - - - - - I

*

Min.
7"
8''

-

-- - - - - - - - - - - - - и - - и - - - - -

------~--------- ..

I
i

9''

10"

20"

.

30"

и

-

_.
230.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 230.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 230.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0,3 230.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 230.0 29.9 9.9 9.8 9.8
229.S

и

____ - - - - - - - 1026, 4

40"

50"

60"

Meridional arcs.

, 1

Miuutes ofl

x.
-

-

и-

-- --

-----

-- -

~ --

I longitude Arc par.
I

Y.

ll'

~

1
3

179.6 9.6 9.5 9.5
9.5 9.4

205.3 5.2 5.2 5.2
5.1

"
5
6 7 8
9

256.6 6.5 6.5 6.4
6.4 6. 3

5.1 205.0 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.9 2114.8 4. B 4. 8 4.7 4.7 204.6 4.6 4.6 4.5 4.5 204.4 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.3

513.2 3.1 3.0 2.9 2.8 2.7 512.6 2.5 2.4
2.3

769.8 9.6 9.5 9.3 9.2 9.0 768.9 8. 7 8.6 8. 4 8.3 0'68.1 8.0 7.8 7.7 7.5 767.4 7.2 7.1 6.9 6.8 766.6 6.5
6.3 6,2 6.0

и6.2 6.0 5.8 5.6 5.4 1025.2 5.0 4.8 4.6 4.4 1024. 2 4.0 3.8 3.6 3.4 1023. 2 3.0 2.8 . 2.6 2.3 1022. l 1. 9 ]. 7 1.5 1. 3 1021. l 0.9 0.7 0.5
0.3

1283. 0 2.7 2.5 2.2 2.0 ]. 7 1281. 5 ' 1. 2 1. 0 0.7 0.5 1280.2 0.0 79.7 9.5 9.2 1279.0 8.7 8. 4

1539.56 9.26 8.00 8.66 8.36 8.06 1537.76 7. 45 7. 15 6. 85 6.55 1536, 25 5. 95 5.64 5.34 5. 04 1534. 74 4.43 4.13
:i. 83

l"

30.8

2
3 4

6J.6 92.4 123. 2 154.0 184.9 2lf1. 7 ! 246.5 277. 3 3U8. 1
fil6. 2

1'

-.0

.I

I;:!
l'.'j

2
3 4

.o
.0 .0 .0

.0

.5
I. I

2.0
3.1

>.; 0
~
>-:)

10

179.4 9.4 9.3 9.3 9.3 179.2 9.2 9.2 9.1 9.1 179.1 9.0 9.0 8.9
8.9

256.3 6.2 6.2 6.1 6.1

I Ii
11 11

5 6 7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 1' 00 2
3

5 6 7 8
9
10

.o

.o
.0

4.5 6~ 1
8. 0

0
>tj
>-:)

10. 1 12. 5 28.2 50. l 71'!. 3 112. 7 153.4 200.4 253.5 313. 0 378. B 450.B 613.6 801. 4 1014. 2 1252.2 1515.1 1803. l

II:
lrj

2.2 512. 1 2.0 1. 9 ], 8 1. 7 511.6 I. 5 l. 4 l. 3 ). 2 611.1 1. 0 0.9 0.8" 0.7 510.6 0.5 0.4 0.2

I

12 13
14 t5 16

11

256.0 6.0 5.9 5.9 5.8 255.8 5.7 5.7 5.6 6.6 255.5
5.5

'I'

I

924.3 123'2. 3 1540. 4 1848.5 3697.0 5545.5 7394. 0 9242.6 11091.1 1░ 12939.6 1 14788.1 1 16636.6 1 18485. I 1 . 2033:l.Q I l 22182,l I 2

15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 00 IO 20 30 40 50 00

.o
.1
и1

.0

.o

c:

00

>.;
l'.'j

~ ....

.2
.3

z

~

17 18 19 20
21 22
23
24

e.2

7.9

4 5 6 7
8

.5 .6 .8
I. 1 1. 7

l'.'j

li!j

t:1

3.53 1533.22 2.92 2.61 2.31 S.00 1531.70 1. 40 1.09 o. 79
IJ.48 !

z

J:<j
~

178.9
8.8 8.8 8. 7
178. 7

6.8

25
26

5.4 5.4 5.3 255.3 5.2 5.2 5.1 5.1

I

1277.7 7.4 7.2 6.9 6.7 1266.4 6.2 5.9 5.Q 5.4

9
Ill

11

12

e.s

2.6 3. 7 5.1 6.8

ti'
28 29

8.7 8.6
8.6 8.6

30

.

и

204.2 4.2 4.1 4. 1 4. l

9.7

9.7
9.6
9.6

o.3

765. 8 I 5.7 I 5. 5 I 5.4 5.:.1
I

I I I

I

I

I

TABLE VI.-Prcrjectian Tables-Continued.
L.UITCDS

34░ 30'. Co-ordinates of curvature.
0 Minutes of X. longitude. Arc par. Y.
~

Length in metre& of arc~-o~ the parallel,~~rc p a r . ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - r - - ---------и-'

Miu.
7"
--r--1

8"

9''

I0

11

20"

30"
----

40"

GO"

60"

I
i

Meridional arcs.

--l" 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9

IJ:j l'J

'""
'"3

30' :n
~ 8~

178. 6 8.5

e. s
8. 4 8. 4 8. 4

34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 4:3 44 45 46 47 48 49 50
51 52 53 54 55

204.1 4.0 4. o 3. 9 3. 9 3. 9 203. 8 ~ 3. 8 3. 7 3.7 3. 7 203. 6 3. 6 3. 5 3. 5 3. 5 203. 4 3. 4 3. 3 3.3 3. 3 203. 2 3. 2 3.1 3.l 3. o 203. o 3. 0 2.9 2. 9 2.8

229. 6 9.5 9, 5 9. 4 9. 4 9. 3 229. 3 9, 3 9. 2 9.2 9. I 229. 1 9. 0 9. U 8. 9 8. 9 228. 8 8. 8 8. 7 s.1 8. 7 228. 6 B. 6 8.5 8.5 s. 4 и 228. 4 8. 3 A.3 8. 2 B.2

255. 1 5.o 5. o 4. 9 и 4. 9 4. 8 254. 8 4. 7 4. 7 4.6 4. 6 2!i4. 5 4. 5 4. 4 4. 4 4. 3 254. 3 4. 2 4. 2 4.1 4. l

510. 2 0.1

509. 9 9. 8 9, 7 509. 5 9. 4 9. 3 9.2 9. I

o. u

765. 2 li.1 4. 9 4. 8 4. 6 4. 5 764. 3 4. 2 4. 0 3.9 иf' 7 763. 6 3. 4 3. 3 3. I 2. 9 762. 8 2. 6 2. 5 2.3 2. 2 76'2. 0 1. 9 1.7 1.G i. 4 7fll. 3 l. 1 O.!J o. 8 0.6

1020. 3 0.1 19. g 9. 7 9. 5 9. 3 1010. 1 8. 9 8. 7 8.5 8. 3 1018. 1 7. 9 7. 7 7. 5 7. 3
1017. l 6. 9 6. 7 6.5 6. 3

1275. 4 &.1 4. 9 4. 6 4. 4 4. 1 1273. 9 3. 6 3. 4 3.1 2. \l 1272. 6 2. 4 2. 1 1. 8 1. 6 1271. 3 J. I 0. 8 o.6 o. 3
1270. () 69, 8 !l.5 9.3 9. o

1530. 48 0.18 29. 87 9. 57 9. 26 8. 96 1528. 65 8. :35 8. 04 7.74 7. 43 1527. 13 6. 82 6. 51 6. 21 5. 90 1525. 59 5. 29 4. 98 4.01 4. 37
1524. 06 3. 75 :i.44 3.14 2. s3

30. 8 61.6 92. 4 123. 2
154. 1 184. 9 215. 7 246. 5 277. 3
11

l' 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9

-. 0 .o .o и0
.0 .0 .0 .0 .0

1-4

z

~

ti:l ti

178. 3 8. 3 8. 3 8.2 8. 2 178. 2 8. 1 8. l 8. l 8. 0
,178. 0 8. 0 7. 9 7.9 7. 8 177. 8 7. 8 7.7 7.7 1.

..,s
1-3
ti:l
[fl

O'J

~

509. 0 8. 9 8. 8 8. 7 8. 6 508. 5 8. 4 8. 3 8.2 8. 1
508. () 7. 9 7.8 i.7 1. 6

10 20 30 40 50 l' 00 2 :J 4 !i 6
7

308. 1 61&2 924. 3 12:~2. 4 и 1540. 6 1848. 7 3(i!J7. :J 5546. 0 7:194. ti 924:1.3 11092.0
12940. 6 1478!J. 3 l 00313. 0 18486.6 203:l5.3 22183.

I

10 15 20 25 30
35 40 45 50 55 1░ 1 l 1 l I 2 00 10 20 30 40 50 oo

и0 .0 и0 .I .1
.2 . :J и5 .7 .9
I. 1 I. 8 2. 7 3. 8 !di 6.9 9. o

0 ?om 1-3
~

c

c1
3 2
9 8 9
l;Q

I

r

254. 0 4. 0 3.9 3.9 3. s

1016. 0 5. 8 5.6 5.4 и 5. 2 1015. o 4. 8 4.6 4. 4 4.2

I I I )()8 9

<I ti:l ...-:
~

I

0
l;Q

I
I

11 12

v
:

2 8 6 5

..,

....
00

<:->

56 57 08 59 60

177. 6 7. 6 7.6 7. 5 7.5

253. s 3. 7 3.6 3. 6 3.5

607. 5 7. 4 7.3 7. 2 7.1

1268. 8 E'. 5 8.3 8. () 7.7

1522. 52 2. 21 1.90 I. 60 1.29

I
I

........

w

*

~

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Confnued.
LATITIJDll: 350
~

00'.
-----------"-----~-

~ ~
. il
:1
-~и----

- - - и------

и'

--

Length in metres of ares of the parallel, (arc par.)

Min..
7v

.

----------Y.

-~~и-I

8//

Meridional arcs.

I I

Co-ordinates of currature.

{Y/

11Y1

00''

3fY1

40"

50"

61Y'
--~

- - - - ---O'
l

Iи
JI/

,-Minutes of X. longitude. Arc par.

2 3
4

5

177. 5 7.4 7.4 7.4 7.3 7.3
177.3

20-2.8 2.8 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.6 202.6 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.4 202.4 2.3 '/) 2:3 2.3 2.2 202.2
2. 1 IU

228.2

8. 1 8.1 8. 1 8.0 8.0 227.9 7.9 7.8 7.8 7.7 227.7 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.5 'Ц27.5
7.4

253.5 3.5
3.4

507.1 7.0
6.9

760.6 0.5 0.3 Cl.0 59. 9 759. 7 9.6
9.4

1014. 2
4.0

3.4 3.3 3.3 253.2 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.0 253.0 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.8

6 7
8

'.

..

6.8 6.7 6.6

o. 2

3.8 3.6 3.4 . 3.2 1013. 0 2.8 2.5 2. 3 2.1 1011. 9 ]. 7 I. 5
I. 3 1.1

1267.7 7.5 7.2 7. 0 6. 7 6. 4 1266.2 5.9 5.7 5. 4
5.2

1521.29 0.98 0.67 0.36 0.05 19. 74 1510. 43
9. 13
8.8~

30.8
61.6

1'
2 3 4

-.0

2 3

4 5
6

92.4 123.2 154.1 184.9 215.7 246.5 277.3
308.1

.o .o
.0

.1

i;rj

.5 I. 1 :l.0
3.2 4.6 6.2 8. 1 10. 3 12.7 28.6 50.8 79.3 114. 2 155.5 2lf.l.o 2!i7.0 317.3
383.9

M
"d

0
i;rj

5
6

9

10

7.2 7.2 7.2 7.1 177.1 7.1 7.0 7.0 6.9 176.9 6. 9

f?06.5' ' и 6.4
6.3

7
8

6.2
6.1

9. 3
и~. l

8.51
8.W

9
10

7 8 9

.o .o .o

.o .o

1-3

0 ...,
1-3
~

M
O'l

IO
15 20 25
30
35

11
12 13 14 15

19
~o

16 17 18

.

506.0 5.9 5.8 5.6 5.5 505.4 5.3 5.2 5.1 5.0 '504. 9 " 4.8 и:и 'и4.,7 4,5
504.4

758. 9 8.8 8.6 8.5

1264.9
4. 6

e.a

4.4 4. I 3. 9 1263.6 3.4
3.1

1517.89 7.58 7.27 6.96 6.(ii 1516. 34 6.03 5.71 5.40 5.09 lf114. 78 4.47
4. r6' 3.54

20 30
4fl

616.2
!l'!4. 4

.o

.0
.o .1 .1

~

"d

123'2. 5
Hi40.6

50
I' Ofl

t'1 ::ti

A.8

6.8 6.8

2.1 2.0 202.0
1, 9

7.4 7.3 7.3 227.2 7.2 i '1. 1
7.1

252.7 2.,7 2.6 2.6

758. 2 8.0
7. 9

1010. 9 o. 7 0.5
0. :1

2 3
4

2.5 .

7.7 7.5 757.4 7.2 7.1 6.9 6.8 756.6 6.5 6.3 6.1 6.0

0.1 1009.9
9.6

2.8 2.6 1262. 3 2.1 I. 8 l. 5 1. 3 1261. 0
'(I.fl

5 6
7.

1848.8 3697.6 5546.4 7395.2 . 9244. 0
ll092. 9

40 45
55

I
I

.2 и3
.5

z
z z

.....

J-3 ti:!

50 I

.7 .9
1. 8 2.7

t:i
t'1

21. 2:.l

176. 7

23
'24

6.7
6.7 6.6 6.6

252.5
'!t. 4 '

. 1.9
1. 8.

2.4

и9
10

8

12941. 7 14790.5
JG639.3

JO 00
I IO I 20 1 30

I. I

456.9
6~1.

r:l

9

812.2
1-028. 0

'и11.4

3. 9

2.:tи
2.3

4,6
''

25

I. 8
201. s

1.0
'
227.0

9.2 9.U 1008. 8 8.6 8.4 8.2 8.0

3.85 .

11 12

.18488.2 203.17. 0 221Bf1, 8

1 40 I 50 2 00

5.3

7. u

1269. I 1535.6
1B27. G

9.1

!16 117 18
29 30

1~.5

6.5
1'1.5

I. 7 ]. 7

6.4 6.4

1.6
1.6

6.9 6.9 6.8 6.8

252.2 2.2 2.1 2.0 2'. 0

4.3
4.2
4.1

0.5 0.2

4.0

o.o

1513.22 2.91 2.60 2.29
], 98
i

I

TA;BLE yI.-Projectfon Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

350 3<Y.
и11 """ - - - - - - - и
11 и и - - y - -

-------------------------

Length in metres of ares of the parallel, (arc par.)

Min.
711

81/

IV'

'10''

20/f

I

30N

I

40"

I

.
51Y'
J

Co-ordinateg of curvature. Meridional arcs.

I

6on

/

1

-1

I
176. 4 6. 4 6.3 6. 3 6. s 6. 2 176. 2 201. 6 I. 6 1.5 1. 5 I. 4 I. 4 201. 3

I
226. 8 6. 7 6.7 6. 7 6. fl 6. 6 226. 5 6. 5 6.4 6. 4 6.3

I
2S2. 0 J. 9 1.9 l. 8 l. 8 I. 7 25 l. 7 1. 6 1.6 1.5 1.5 251. 4 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.2
251. 2
иJ. f

I
504. 0 . 39 3.8 3. 7 3. 6 3. 5 503. 4

1~--1--1-----1
756,0 5.8
5.5 1008.0 1260.0 1511. 98
1.66
]. 35

и
1/1
3

of X. I longitude. Arc par.

i Minute$

I

Y.
и
.1

0 otj

'"3

1-----,----j
I
'

Ill
--I -.0 l' .o 2 .o 3 .o 4 5
6 7 B
t'j

30'
31 32 33
Iи

5.7
5.4 5.2

7.8 7.6
7.4

34 36

7.2 6.9
1006. 7 6.5 6.3 ' 6.1 I 6.9
1005. 7 5.5

59,7 9.5 9.2 8.9 8. 7 1258. 4 8.2
7. 9

2
4
5
6 7

o. 41

1. 04 0. 73

61.6 92.4 123.3 154.1
184. 9

30. B

j'

.5
1. 1

I

i

z ....

~

2.0
3.2

I

ii
l;1
I'll

.
38 39

:rt

36

6. 1 6.1 6.1 6.0
l76. 0 6.0 5.9 5.9 5.8
175. 8 G. 8 5.7 5. '1 5. 7 175. 6 5. 6 5. 6

1. 3
l.3

1.2 1.2
201.1 J.1 1.1 1.0 J.O
200. 9 o. 9 0.8 O. l:l O. 8 200. 7 0. 7 0. 6 0.6 0,6
200. 5 0,5 0. 4 0.4 o. 3

3. 3 3.2 3..0 2.9
502. 8 2..7 2.6
2.5

755.0 4. 9

4.7

4.6 4.4
754.3 4. 1 4.0 3. 8 3.6

7.6 7.4
1257.1

1510. 10 1509.79 9.47 9. 16 8.85

8 9 10
I

215.7 246.5

I
11
fi

.o .o
.0 .0
и1

.0

4.6
6.3 8.2
JO. 3

'"3

277.3 3118.2
616. 3
9~4.5

9
10

IP' '"3
tlj

20

15

.o .o
.o
.I

12.8 28.7
51. 1 79.8 114. 9
H>6.4

17.l

c
0 l>17.l

u
u

иll

226. 3
6.2 6.2
6.1

6.9
6. 6 6. 3 6.1 1255.8

150R. 53 I 8. 2'J I
7. 91 i 7.59 ' 1.28 I
I

30 "0 -

40

ии 4i
46
.t7

6.1
226. 0 6. 0 ' 5.9 5. 9 5, 9 225. 8 5. 8 5. 7

2.4
502. 3 2. 2 2.1 2. 0 I. 9 501. 8 I. 7 1. 6 1.5 1.4
501. a J,2 I. I 1.0 o. 8

5. 3 5.1 4.8
1004.6
4.4

1232. G lM0.8 1849. 0 3(i97. 9

20 2S 30
35 40

.1

'"3
17.l

753.5
3.3

5.5
5. 3 5.0
4. 8

1506.96 6.65
6.33
6.02

2 3
4 5 6

}' :o

I

5546.9
7395. 9 9244.8

45
50 55

.2 .3 .5 .7

204,3 258.6
319.2

Cl

<
t>.l
~

~

48
49 50
51

1.1
1. 0 1. 0
250. 9 o. 8 o. 8 0.7 0.7
250. o 0,6 0. 5 0.5 0. 4

3.2
~

4.2
4. ()

.9
1. 2 1. 8

386.3
459. 7

><.

3.0

11093. B
12942.8 147!JJ. 7 l6Ci40. 7

2.9 752.7
2.5

3.8 1003.6 3.4 3.2
3. 0

5.71
1505.39 5.08
4. 7ll

1254.5
4.2

7 8

JO 00 1 10
I 20

625. 7
817.3
1034. 4

52
63

54 55
56 57 58 59 1IO
'~--и

5.5 5.5

5.7 5.6
225. 6 5.5 5. 6 fd 5. 4

2.4 2.2
2.1

4.0
3. 7

4.44
4.13

II 1~

1848H. 7
211338. 6 2:?187.6

1 30 1 40

2.8 3.9

0 ilO
~

r,_4

1277.0
1545. 2

2.8
1002. 5 2.3 2. I 1.9 1. 7

3.4

11 12

1 50 2 00

'i.2

(,,)

~'

9.3

H:l3B.8

mu
5.4 6. 4 6.3 5. 3

751. 9 1.7 1. 6 l.4 1. 3

I I
I

1253. 2 _ 2,9 2. Ci 2.4 2. 1
-и-

1503. 81 3.50 3. 18 2.86 2. 55

...... *
~

Cl

-----ии------------~-

-------~-----.

TABLE VI.-Prrgection Tables-Continued.
LATll'UDE 360

)o...l

<:>:>
0)

00 1 и

*
Co-ordinates of curvature. Meridional ares.
-и-и-----

-

Length in metres of area of the pamllel, (arc par.)

Min.
7N
8"

9"'

1011

2011

30''

4011

60"'

601 1

Minutes of

x.

Y.

O'
1 2 3 4
5

-

longitude. Arc par.

1'5.3 5.3 5.2
5.~

5.1
5.1

200.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 200. 1 11.0 199.9

225.4 5.3 5.3
5.2

5.2 5.1 225.1 5.1 6.0 6.0 4.9
224.9 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.7

250.4 0.4 0. 3 o. 3 0.2 0.2 250. l

500.8 o. 7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 500.2 0.1 499.9 9.8 499.7 9.6 9.5 9.4 9.3 499.2 9.1 8.9 8.8 8.7' 498.6 8.5 8.4 8.3 8.2 498.1 8.0 7.9 7.8 7.7

751. 3 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.6
Q.5

1001. 7 I. 5
1. 3

I. I

o.a

0.8

1252.1 1. 9 1. 6 1. 3 I. l
0.8

1502.55 2.23
J. !l'i I. 60

]"

2
3

1.28 0.97 1500. 65 0.33 0.02 1499. 70 9.38 1499.06 8.75 8.43
8.11

4

30.8 61. 6 92.5 123. 3 154. 1 IE4. 9 215. 7 246.5 277.3 308.2 616. 4 9:.l4. 6 l\!3~. 7 1540. 9 1849.1 3698.2 5547.4 7396.5 9'l45. 6 11094. 7 12943.8
14792. 9

1'
2
3

4

-.0 .0 .0 .0 .0 .0 .0
и0

.1

.5
1. 2

t:d
t'.l
"ti

2.1 3.2 4.6 6.3 8.2 10.4 12.8 28.9 51.4 80.3 )15. 6 157.4 205.5 2611. 1
321.l

0 td

6 7 8
g

10
11 12 13
M

175, 1 5.0 5.0 6.0 4.9

o.o o.o

0.0 249.9 9.9
~9.B

o. 1

o.o

I

750.3 0.2 0.0 49.B 9. 7 749.5 9.4 9.2 9.1 8.9 748.7 8.6 R4 8.3 8.1 747.9 7.8 7.6 7.5 7.3 747.1 7.0 6.8 6.7 6.5

1000. 4 0.2 ' 0.0 999.8 9.6 999.4 9.2 9.0 8.7 8.5 998.3 8.1 7.9 7. 7 7.5 997.3 7.0
6.8
6.6

1250.5 0.3 0.0 49.B 9.5 1249.2 9.0 8. 7 8.4 8.1 1247.9 7.6 7.4
7. l

5 6 7
8

5 6 7
8

1-3 0
":l

9
IO

9
IO

.o .o

...;

:'Ii
t'.l

20
30

174.9
4.9 4.8 4.8 4.7

15
16 1'1 13
19

199. 9 9.8 9.8 9. 7 9.7

15 20
2.5

.0 .0 .1 .1

q

00

9.8 и- 9.7 9. 7 9.6

40 50
l' 0(1

"'O
ttj

30 35 40 45 50 55

7.79 1497.47 7.16 6.84 6.52 6.20 1495. 88 5.56 5.24 4.92 4.61 1494. 29 3.97
3.65

20
21
22
23

174.7 4.7 4.6 4.6 4.6

199. 7 9.6 9.6 9.5 9.5
199.5 9.4 9.4 9,3 9.3
199.2

224.6 4.6 4.6 4.5 4.4 224.4 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2

.

249.6 9.5 9.5 9.4 9.4

2 3 4 5
6

.2 .4 .5 .7 .9 ]. 2 1. 9 2.8 4.0
5.5 7.3 9.5

z

.....
t'.l

~

1-3

~

388.6 462.4 629.4 822.1 1040.4 1284. 5 1554.3 1849. 7

!:;I

6.9 1246. 6 6.3 6.0 5.8 5.5 1245. 2 5.0 4.7 4.4 4.2

11'
25

и174.5 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.4
174.3

249.3 9.3 9.2
9.2

7 8
9

10
11
12

9.1 249.0 9.0 8.9 8.9 8.8

6. 4 996.2 6.0 5.8 5.5 5.3

16li42. 0 18491. 2 20340.3 22189.4

lO 00 1 10 1 20 1 30 1 40 1 50 2 00

z

t'.l

1-3

26
'Jf'l

t8 119

30

4.3 и 4.3 4.2 4.2

9.1 9.1

9.2

9.2

2'24. l 4.1 4.0 4.0 4.0

..
'

I

3.33 3.01

TABLE VI.-Pr<dection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

36░ 30'.

.
Min.
7"

---Length in metres of arc~ of the parallel, (arc par.) 10''
1

I
ии1

l
_I

8"
IJ

9"

20"

Meridional arcs.

30''

4lY'

50''

60''

'~ ""'

301
31

32 33 34
35

174.2 4.1 4.1 4. 1 4.0 4.0 174.0 3.9 3.9 3.9 3. 8 173.8 3.7 3.7 3.7 3.G 173.6 3.6 3.5 3:5 3.4 173.4
3.4

I I

2U.O 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.8 3.7 223.7 3.G
3.G

и
248.8 8.8 8.7 .8. 7
8. 6

---995. 3 5.0 4.9 4. 7 4.5 4.3 994. 1 3.8 3.6
3.4
1244. 2
1493.

_I _.
]'и

1-!Minutes of X. Y. 1 longitnde. Arc par., _ _ __
I'

I C~-ordinates o~r~a=0
kj

t-3

l:Q
t.".2

199.1

9.0 9.0 8.9 8.9 8.9 198.8
. 8.8

8.fi 24<>.5 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.3 248.2 8.2 8.1 8.1 8.0 . 241<. 0 7.9 7.9 7.8 7.8 247.7 7.7 7.6 7.5 7.5 247.4 7.4 7.3 7. :3 7.2

497.7 7.6 7.5 7.3 7.2 7.1 497.0 6.9 6.8 6.7
6.6

746.5 6.3 6.2. 6.0 5.9 5.7 745.5 5.4 5.2 5.1
'1. 9

30. 8
61.G

3.9 3.6 3.4
3.1

2.
2.

-.0

.1
.5 1. 2

d

2.
].

!

2 3 4

92. 5

123.3 154.1
184. !J
21$.7

2 3
4
5
6

. ()

.0

z

>-f

и0

2.1
3.2 4. 6
li.:J

~

2.8 1242.fi 2.3 2.0 1. 8 1. 5 1241. 2 0.4 0.2
1. ()

1. 1491.
0.

I
I

5
6 7

36 37 38

39

40

8.7 8.7 8.6 198.6 8.6
8.5

!t5 3.5

o.

i

7
8

.o .o
.o
,()

tr.l t;!
00

8 0
10

246. 5 277. 3
308. 2 616. 4
!hl4.tl
123~.

!J
10
15 20

и0
и0
.0

8.3 10.5

Ii.

t-3 I> t-3 t.".2
r/2

3.2
!J93. 0 2.8 2.6 2.3 2.1
9!Jl. !) J. 7 1. 5

89. 1489. 9.
8. 8. 8.

I
1,
]I

41
4~

43

44 45 .
46
47 48 49

8. 5' 8.4
198.4 8.3

223.4 3.4 3. :J 3.3 3.2 223.2 3.1
:3.0
~-1

496.5 6.4 6.3 6.2
6. l

744. 7 4. G 4.4 4.3 4.1 743.9
3.8

20
30

12.9
\!!l. l 51. 7 811. 7

c
0

o. 7

40

!J

50
00

15"11. l

:m
35 40 4ii

2:;

.o

.1

I>
1'/:l

.2
.2 .-i

116.2

'"3
O'l

1849.3
3G!I~. (j

50

8.3 8.3 8.2 198'. 2 8.1 8.1
13. ()

3.0 222.9 2.9 2.8 2.8 2.7
22-2. 1

496.0 u.8 5.7 5.6 5.5 495.4 5.3 5.2 5.1 5.0 494. !J 4.8 4.7 4.6 4.5

3.6 3.5 3.3 743. l
:-i.

1. 3 1. 1
990. 8 O. G o. 4

1239.9 9.(J 9.4 9.1 8.8 1238.fi 8.::1 8.0 7. 7 7.5 1237.G
7.ll

I

2
U8i,

1r;e. 2 20G. 7
2GI. 5

d
P;l
l_rj
~

7. 7.
6. 6.

11
I

3
4

[lG47. D

7:m;. I
!.lHG.4 110!!5. G
12!lH. H
1-ti!J!.2

51/
55

.5 .7
.9

I

:1

5

6

:m.9 3ll\l. 7
4G5. n fi:J:!.9
KиJli. 7

-<

51 52 M
54

u

55
56 57
5i3 59 60

3.3 3.3 3.3 173.2 3.2 3.1

8 0
198. ()

2.8 2.6 2.5
742.3 2.2 2. ()
]. 8

(). 2 0.0
ll. 5

14Ro. 5. 5. G. 4.
Wl4. 4.

'

7
8
!)

1Gti4:l. 5
184\12. i3

II
11 11

1u 1 1 1

00
IO 20 30

1. 2
]. !l 2.!l

"':.l
0
P;l

10

11 12

2o:H2. o 221\Jl. 3 !1
:1

1 40 1 50
2 00

:I
I

4. l 5.G 7.5 9.7

1041i. 2 lWl. 6

....
00
~

15G2. 8 1860. 0

c.:

989.8

:u

3.1

7. !J 7. (l 7.9 7.8

2.0 2.6 2.6 2.5
и----

!J. 3
9. 1

6.7 6.4
6.1

-

4. 3.

l. 7

8.9

3.

:1
____ ti _ ,---------

1'-' i;;.-;>

*

----

-.r

TABLE VI.-Prqjection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

1-1
~

370 00.1.
--- ----и----

CD

*

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc pit.r.)

Co-ordinates of curvature.

Kin.

7"

8''и

9u

10"

и 20'1

30''

40''

5011

6011

Meridional arcs.

!I longitude.
I

Mimttesofl
1

X.
Arc par.

I

Y.
V.l
t;:j
'"!)

-Cl'

l 2
3
4

173.1 3.0
3.0

Ii

3.0 2.9 2.0 172.'8 2.8 2.8 2.7 2.7 172.6 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.5
172. 5

197.8 7.7 7.7 7.7 7.6 7.6 197.5
7. 5

222.5 2.5 2.4 . 2.4 2.3
1!.3

247.2 7.2 7.1 7.1 7.0 7.0 246.9 6.8
6.8

-

494.5 4.3 4.2 4.1 4.0 3.9 493.8 3. 7 3.6 3.5 3.4 493.3 3.2 3.0 2.9 2.8 492.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.3 492.2 2. 1 2.0 1.8'
1. 7

741. 7 1. 5
l. 3

988.9 8. 7 8.5
8.3 8.0

123H.1 5.9
!i. 6

1483. 3:-i

1.2 1. 0 0.0

5.3

7.8 987.6 7.4 7.2 7.0 6.7 986,5 6.3 6. l 5.9 5.7 985.4 5.2 5.0 4.8 4.6 984.4 4.1 3.9 3.7 3.5 983.3 3.0 2.8 2.6 2.4

5.0 4.8

3.03 2.70 2.38 2.05
1. 73

1" 2 3 4 5
6 7

30.8 61. 6
92.5

)1

12.1. 3 154.1 184,9 215. 7 . 246. 5 I 277. 3 . 308.2 616.4 924.7 123\?. 9 1541. 2
1849. 4

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30
35

-.0
.0 .0 .0

.1

.5 1.2 2. 1 3.2 4.7 6.4 8.3 10.5 13.0 29.2 51. 9
81. l 116. 8
159, 1

0
p;j .;_i

6 7 8
9

10
1l

7.4 7.4 7.3 197.3 7. 3.
7.2

222.2 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.0 222.0 1. 9 1. 9
1. 8 1. 8

6. 7 6.7

740. 7 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 739.9 9.7 9.6 9.4 9.2 739.] 8.9 8. 7
8.6~

123'1. 5 4.2 4.0 3.7 3.4 1233.2 2.9 2.6 2.3 2.1 1231.8 1. 5
1. 2

1481. 41
l. OB

.o
.0

и0

0.76 0.43
0.11

8 9 10 20 30 40 50 1' 00
2

.o

0
>!j

и0
и0

>-3
~
t;:j rJl

и0

12 13 14
15

7.2 7. 1 197.] 7.0 7.0 6.9
6.9
1961;9

246.6 6.6 6.5 6.5 6.4 216. 4 6.3 6.2 6.2 6.1 246.1 6.0

1479.78 9.4U 9. 13 8.81 8.48
1478. 15

.0 и1 .2 .2 и4
.5

q

Mj t;j

z

t:d .... "-3
t.>J

1&

17 18 19. 00

2.4
2.,4
2.~

221. 7 1. 7
l. 6 1. 6 I. 5

3

3693. 8 5548.2
7397.~

2.3 172.3

8.4 738.3 8.1 и 7.9 7,A 7,6
7:17.4

1. 0 o. 7 1230.4 0.2 29.9 9.6 9.4 1229.1 8.8 8.5 8.3 8.0

7.83 7.50 7.18
6.s;;

4 5 6

40 45 50
55

9247.1 11096. 6 12946.0 147ll5.4 16644.8 18494.3 20343. 7 '22193. 2

.7 .9 1. 2 1. 9 2.9
4. I

207.7 262.9 324.6 39'Z. 8 467.4
6;~6.

z

21 '
22

7
1476.52 6.2U 5.87
8
9

2.2

2.'J
24

2.2

!5

2.1 2.1 ~ 172.1 2.0 2.0 2.0
171.9

6.8 6.8 6.7

6.7

221.5. 1. 4 1. 4 l. 3 1. 3
221.2

6.o

5.9 5.9 245.8 5.8 5.7 5.7 5.6

5.54

10
11 12

I

5.22

lO 1 1 1 l 1 2

00 10 20 30 40 50 00

z ..,

t:::l h'1

2

5. 7 7.6 9.B

831. 0 1051. 8 1298.4 1571. 0 1869,7

!6
28

,,.
29

196.7 . 6.6 6.6
6.5

'1.2
1.1
1.1

00

6.5

1.0

491.6 1.5 1.4' 1.3 1. 2

1474. 89
4.56 4.2<1

7.3 7.1 7.0 6.8

3.91 3.58

.

.

TABLE VI-Projection Tables-Continued.
LlTITUD11: 370 30' и

и

--и---

и
Co-ordinates of cunnture.
0

Length in metres of 11rcs of the plll'allel, (arc par.)

llln.
7" 8"

Meridional area.

9"

10''

20и'

30"

40''

50"

60''

J\Iinutoe of

x.

~

Y.

longitude. Arc par.

-30'
31 32

171.9
1. 9 1.8 1.8

и
245.6 5.5 6.6 5, 4 5.4 6.3 245.3 5.2 6.2 5.1 5.0 245. 0 4.9 4.9 4.8 4.8 244.7 4.7 491.2 1.1 l.O 0.9 o. 8 0.6 490.5 0.4 o. 3 0.2 0.1 490.0 89.9 . 9.8 9.7 9.5 489.4 9.3 9.2 9.1 9.0 736. 8 6.6

.
.1

~

~

196,5 6.4

221.0 1. 0

6.4

..

33
34

6.3
6.3

0.9 0.9
0.8 0.8 220. 7 o. 7 0.6 0.6

6.5
6.3 6. l 6.0 735.8

982.4 2.2 2.0
1. 7 1.5 1.3 981.1 0.9 0.6 0.4 0.2 !l80.0 79.8 9.5 9.3 9.1 978.9 8.7 8.4 8,! 8.0 971.8 7.6 7.3 7.1 6.9 976.7 6.5 6.2 6.0. 6. 8

и' 35
36
37

1. 8
1.7

6.3
196.2

1228.0 7;7 7.4 7.2 6.9 6.6 1226. 3

14(3. 58 3. 25 2.93 2.60 2.27 1. 94 1471. 61

l"

2 3

92.5

m. 7

-1 30.8 I

b:S 1' -.0

I

2
3 4

4
5 6
7

123.3

.o .0 .o
.o
.0

.5
1. 2

~ ~

.....

2. l

иi::i
Ui
~

1-'3 t:l

154. 1
J85.0 215.8 24fl. 6 277.4 308. :i 616.5 92и1. 8 1233. l

5
6
7

и

3.3
4.7 6.4 8.4. 10.6 13.0 29.4 52.2 81.5 117.4

38 39

40
41

l'TJ, 7 . 1. 6 1.6 1.6 1.5
-171.6 l.5

.0
и0 и0

6.2 6.1
6.1 6.0
196.0 6.0 6.9 5.9

5.6
5.5 5.3

6.1 5.8
5.5 5.3 1225. 0 4.7 4.4

1.29 0.96
0.63

8 9

8
9

~ ~

t"1
Ui

0.5
220.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3
220.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1

.

5.1
735.0 4.8 4.6

0.30
1469. 97 9. 64 9. 31 8.98 8. 65 1468. 32
8. 00

10 20
30 40 50
00

lO 15 20

.0
и0 и0

0 0
~ Ui

44

4t 43
40

]. 4 1,4 1. 3 171.3 1. 3
1. 2
l.~

4.5
4.3 734.2 4.0 3.8 3.7 3.5 733.3 3.2 и 3. 0

..4.2
3.9 1223.6 3.3 3.1 2.8 2.5 1222.2 2.0 1. 7 1.4 1.1
1220. 9 0.6 0.3 0.0 1219. 7

1541.3
1849. 6 3699.2 55-18.8 73!J8. 4 9247. 9 110!J7.5 12947. l 14791l.7 l664ll. 3

25 30

.l

.2
.2

>i

m
~ ~ ~ ):lj
~

5.8
195.8 5.7

46
47

2 3 4

30 40
45

159.8
208.8 264.2
:l~6.2

.4

48
49

60

1.2 171.1 1.1 1.0
1.0 1.0

5.7 5.6 5.6
195.6

4.6
4.6 4.5

7.67 7.3i 7.01 14.66. 68 6. 34 6. 01
5.35

5
6

50 5G

.7

.5

]. 0

394.7 469.8 C:J0.3 835.0 1057.2 J;J04. 7
1578.7

~

JO 00
I I 1 1 1 2
10 20 30 40 50 00

1. 2

7

51 62 53

220.0
0.0 219.9 9.9 . 9.8 219.8 9. 7 9. 7 9.6 9.6

244.4
4.4 4.3 4.3 4.2

488.9
8.8 8.7 8.6 8.5 48S.3 8.2

g

2.0
3.0

0 P:l

....
~

5.5

9

4.2
5.8 7.7 10.0

OJ
~

64
56

I

5.5' 5.4 5.4 195.3 5.3 5.2

2.8
2.7 732.5 2.3 2.2

:;.Gs

l0 l1 J2

184!J0.!.l
20345.;; 22195.0

1878. 8

56
57 68

170.9
0.9 0.8 0,8 0.8

244.2
4.1 4. 1

8.1
8.0 7.9

69 60

5.2
5,2

4.0
4.0

2.0
1. 8

H65.02 4.69 4. 36 4.03 3. 70

I

I

,_. *
~

<t:>

TABLE VL-Prqjection Tablea-Contlnued.
L.tTITUDJI 330

001и

Length in metres of area of the pa.rallel, (arc par.)

_T ___
Meridional aros.

0

>l'--

......

*

I -Co-ordh~и~atme.
Ilongitude. , Arc pn.r.
____ _...! ______

Min. 7''
8'' . 9''

10"

20"

-()'

I SI 3 4 6
6 '1 8 9

170.8 0.7 0.7 0. 7 0.6 0.6 170,5 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 170.3 0.3 0.3 (),2

195.2 5.1
5.1

5.0 5.0 4.9

!19.6 9.5 9.5 . 9.4 9.4 9.3 219.3и 9.2 9.2 9.1 9.1 219.0 9,0 8.9 8.9 8.8 218.8 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.6 218.5 8.5 8.4 8.4
8.3

244. 0 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.7 3.7 243.6 3.6 3.5 3.5' 3.4 243.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.1 243.1 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.8 242.8 2.7 ll.6 2.6 242.5 2.5
2.4

487. 9 1.8 7. 7 7.6 7.5 7.3 .487.2
7.1

I

I

I I I I

,,
30''

401 '

50"
и~----

60"

----1463. 70

.
--~.~---

l;I-in-ut-es-of X.

I

Y.

731.8 J. 7 I. 5 1. 3
]. 2

975.8 5.6 5.4
5.]

1219. 7 9.5 8;9 8.6 8.4 '121s.1 7.8 7.5 7. 3 7.0 1216. 7 6.4 6.2 5.9 5.6 1215. 3 5.0 4.8 4.5 4.2 1213. 9 3.6 3.4 3.1 2.8
Ill

3. :l7
3. 04

I"

!J.2

2
3 4
5

3( ti]
!)~

~I
7

1. 0
730.9

4.9 4. 7 974.5 4.3 4.0 3.8 3.6 973.4
3.1

2. 70 2.37 2.04 1461. 71
1. 38

rn~

5 3

I
.

I' -1
2

:i 4
!j {;

I I

и-:-;1и--.1
.o .o .o
.5 1.2

l;:::l
t-j

"d

2.1 3. 3 4.7 6.4 8.4.

0
l;:::l

154 2
]8~

10

194. 9 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.7 194.7 4.6 4.6 4.5 4.5 194.5 4.4 4.4 4.3
4.3

7.0 6.9 6.8 486.7 6.6 6.5 6. 3 6.2 486.l 6.0 5.9 5.8 5. 7

0.7 0.5 0.4 0.2

1.04

6 7 8
9

!m .8
24t .() 277 .4

.o

.o
.o
и0

>'3
0
'rj

13

19

11

730.0
29.9

.

0.71

7 8 9

,0 и0

16. 6

1-3
t".l
l'll ~

0.38

10
20

14 15
16

0.2
I

9.7 9.5 9.4 729.2 9.0 8.9 8.7 8.5 728.4 8.2 8. 0 7.9. 7.7 727.5 7.4 7.2 7.0 6,9

2.9 2.7 2.5 972.3 2.0 I. 8 1.6 1.4 97'1.1 0.9
0.7 0.5

14fi0.05 59.71 9.38 9.05 8.72

30 40
50

30E .3 61C .6
1541 .4

10
]()

924 .!J l2:J2 .2

20 25 30
313 40 4fи
50

.o .o .o
.1

29.5

13.1

~

.2 .3 .4 .5
.7
l. ()

52.4 81. 9 111:'.0

'"ti

trJ

17

10 !l !2

111 '

is

o.o и o.o
170.0 169.9 9.9 9;8 9.8 169.8 9.7 9.7 9.6 9.6

110.1 0.1 0.1

1458.38 8.05 7.72 7.38 7.05 1456.71 6.38 6.05 u. 71 G.38 1455.04 4.71 4.37 4.04
3. 71

l' 00 2 4
5

3

369Б ;.5 554Б .2
1109E .5
1294E .2 14797 .9 Hl647 .6 18497 .4 .20347 .2

184Б и 7

и

.....

l;:::l

JllO. 6

z

739S .0 924E .7

6 7
8

55
10 00 1 10

2119.7 205.4 327. 7
391i.5

>-3
tzj

z

t;:l

24 2G

23

194.2 4и.2 4.1 4.1 4.1 194.0
4.0

и

1. 3

2.1

485.6 5.5 5.4 5.2 5.1 485.0
4.!> 4.8

9
JO 11

1 20 1 3f)
1 40 1 50

0,2
97().0

12

2219C .9

2 00

2.0 3.0 4.3 5.9 7.8 10.1

471.8 642.2 838.8
1001. 6 1310. 7

z ...,

t".l

1585.9 1887.4

.18

tr

il6
2Q,

so

3.9 3.9 3.8

218.3 8.2 8.2 8.1 8.1

2.3
2.3

4.7 4.6

69.8 9.6 9.4 9.1

1212.L 2.3 2.0 1.7 1.4

и

I

TABLE VL-Pr<fection Table.t-Continued.
LATITUDE 380

30'.

Length in metres of a.res of the parallel, (arc par.)

I
50"
GO"

..

Min.
7"

8"

9"

10"

20"

30"

40"

I

!

Co-ordinates -0f curvature.
---------~-----.

Meridional arcs.

1--иии--

I
I

rMinutes of

x.

Y.

0 "1

longitude. Arc par. 1

'i
i:q

t.-1

30' 31

3'J
33

34
30

169.6 9.6 9.5 9.5 9.4 9.4
169.4

193.8 3.8

218.1 8.0

.242. 3

2.2
2.2 2.1 2.1 2.0 241.9
].9

3.7
3.7 3.6 3.6 193.6 3.6 3.5 3.4 3.4 193.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2

8.0
7.9

7.9
7.8 217.8 7.7 7.7 7.6 7.6 2l'lt6 7.5 7.4 7.4 7.3 217.2 7.2 7.1 7.1 7.0 217.0 6.9 6.9 6.8и 6.8
216.7 6.7 6.6 6.6 6.5

484.6 4.5 4.3 4.2 4.1 4. 0 483.9 3.8 3, 7 3.6 3.5 483.3 3.2 3.1 3.0 2.9 48'2. 8 2. 7 2.5 2.4 2.3 482.2 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.8 481. 7

726.9 6.7 6.5 6.3 6.2 6.0 725.8 5.7 6.5 5.3

969.1 8.9 8.7 8.5 8.2

1211. 4 . 1.1 o. 9 0.6 0.3

8.0
967.8 7.6 7.3 7.1 6.0 !l66.7 6.5 6.2 6.lJ 5.8 965.6 5.3

o.o

1453.71 3. 37 3.03 2. 70 2.36 2.03 1451. 69 1. 31) 1.02 0.68 0. 35 1450.01 49. 68 9. 34 9. 00 8.67 1448. 33 7.99 7.66 7. 32 6.98 1446. 6! G. 31 5,97 5. 63 5.29 1444. H5 4. 02 4.28 3. 94 a. 60

1,,1 2 3 4
5

30. 8 61. 7 92.5 123.3 154.2 185. 0. 215.8 24G.G 277.4 308. 3 GHl. G 924. 9 t23a. 2 1.:;41. 5 1849. 9
313\l\l. 8

j

l'

-.0

I

2 3 4
5 6 7

:r;
38
39

36

9,3
и 9, 3

9.2

40
41 и

9.2
169.2 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.0 169.0

]. 8 1.8 1.7 241.7 ]. 6 J.6 J.5 1.4 241.4 J.3 ]. 3 J.2 \.2 241.1

1209. 7 9.5 8. [) 8.6

9.2

6 7 8

.o .oи .o .o
.0

и0

.1 .5 l. 2 2.1
3.3 4.7 6.4 8.4 10. 7 13.2 29.G 52.8 82.3 1J8. 5 161. 2 210. 6

c:::

~

.....
>-i

t>1 t:;
t╗

"-i
>-i

9

8 9
JO 15 20 2r. an
3G 40

.o
.o

.0

~и

t.-1
(1l

5.2

43
44 45
46

42

725.0 4.8 4.7 4.5 4.3 724.2 4.0 3.8 3.7 3.5 723.3 3.2

1208.3 8.1 7.8 7.5 7.2 1206. 9 6. 7 G.4 6.1 5.8 1205.5

I I

10 20 3lJ 40 50
1' 01) 2 3 4 5 6

.0 .0 ,.1

Q

0
11-00

.2
.3

""3
00

193.1
3.1 3,0 3.0 2.9 192.9 2,8 2.8 2.7 192. 7

47
48
49

8.9 8.9
8.8 8.8

5. 1
4.9 4.6

554\l.7 7399. (] fl240. (j
11099. 4

45
[1()

55 1░ 00 1 Ill 1 21) I 30 1 40 1 50 2 lJO

.4 .5 .7 t. 0 ]. 3

d
l'Q

266.5
329.0 398.1 47a.8 644. 9 842.4 106tl. l 1316.2 159'l. 6 1895.3

<l
ti:!
~

50
51 02

'>:l
0
i;!:l

53 64 55
fi6

168.8 8.7 8,7 8.7 8.6
168.6 8.5 8.5 8.5

2.8

1.1 1. 0 0.9 0.9 240.8

3.0
2.8 2.6 722.5 2.3 2.1 2.0 1. 8

.

964.4 4.2 4.0 3.8 3.5 963.3 3.1 2.9 2.6 2.4

5.3
5,0 4.7 4.4 12Q4.1 3.8 3.6 3. 3 3.0

I
I
I

7 8
9

10
11 12

1294!), 3 147\HJ. 2 HlG49. 1 18W9.0 20341'.l. 9 22l!JS. 8

2.0 3. ci 4.a
6.lJ 7.9 10.3

.

....
[))

C'1

I

w

68,
59
61)

67

2.6
2.6 2.5 2.5

0.8
o. 7 o. 7 0.6

. 1;5
1.4 1. 3

8.4

1. 2

I I

I

I

"'

'

* ..... I-'
I-'

TABLE VI.-Projecti.on Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE

~

11'--

I>.?

390 00".

*
I
Meridional arCJJ.

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

Min.

7"

1311

!Jtи

10"

20"

30"

.

Co-ordin11tea of curvature.

40 11

50''

60"

I lttfomtes of
I

x.
-.0

.

Y.
~

longitude. Arc par.

и~и~ии-иии-~~ ..... _.!

l 2

O'

168.4
8.4 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.2
и 168.2

J~.5

3 4 5
6

2.4 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.3

216.5 6.5 6.4 6.4 6.3 6.3 216.2 6.2

240. 6 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 240,3 0.2 0.1

481. 2 '1. 1 l. 0 0.9 0.7 0.6 480, 5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 480.0 479.8 9.7 9.6 9.5 479.4 9.3 9.2 9.0 8.9 478.8 8.7 8.6 8.5 8.4 478.2 8.1 8.0 7.9

721. 8 I. 6 1.5 1. 3 l, 1 1. 0

.

962.4 2.2 2.0 1. 7 1. 5
1. 3

1203. 0 2.7 2.4 2.1 1. 9 1. 6 1201. 3
1. 0

1443. 60 3.26 2. 92 2.58 2.24
1.!11

1" 2 I 3 4

I

30.8 6]. 7 92.5 123.3 154. 2 185. 0 215.8 246. 7

l' 2 3 4

.1

7
9

s.

8.1 B. l 8.1
8.0

192.2 2.2

2.1 2.1
2.0

641
6.1 6.0
216.0 5.9 5.9 5.8 5.8 215.7

0.1

10

o. 0

720.8 0.6 0. 4 0.3 0.1 719.9 9.8 9.6 9.4 9.3
719.1

961.1 0.8 0.6 o. 4 0.1

0. 7
0.5 0.2 1199. 9 9.6 9.3 9. 0 8.8 1198.5 8.2 7.9 7.6 7.3 1197. 0 6.8 6.5 6 ')

1441. 57 1. 23 0.89 o. 55

5 6 7
8

5 6 7
8 9
10 If>

9

277.5
308. 3 616.7 925. 0 1233. 4 1541. 7 1850. 1 3700. 1

o. 21

12
13 J4
16 17
Jj)

11

168.o
7.9 7.9 7.9 7.8 167.8 7.7 7S

192. 0
1. 9 1. 9 1.8 I. 8 191. 8 l. 7 1.7

240.0 239. 9 9.9 9.8 9.8 239. 7 9.6 9.6

959.9 9.7 9,5 9.2 9.0 958.8 8.5 8.3 8.1 7,9 957.6 7.4 7.2 7.0 6.7 956.5 6.3 6.1

1439. 87 9.53 9. l!J 8.85 8. 51
14:~8.17

I

10
20
30 40

50 1' 00 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12

20 25 30 35 40

.o .o .o .o ~o .o .o .o .o .o
.1 .2

и0

.5
1. 2 2.1 3.3 4.8

M
"d 0
~ ~

0
t'lj
~

'6.;:> " 8.5
10. 7 13. 2 29. 7 . 52.9 e2.6 118. 9 161.9
211. 4

t:I1
l"l
U1 ~

"d
trj

.....

i:i;j

.3
.4

z

1-i

5550.2
740(1,2 9250.3 11100. 4 12950.4 14800.5 . 18500. () 2()350.7 22200. 7

5.7
5.6 5.6 5.5 215.5 5,4 6.4

18 19
20 .

"l.7 7.6
167.6

1.6
1.6 191. 5 1. 6 1.4

9.5
9.5

8.9 8.7 8.6

8.4
718.2 8.1 7.9 7.7 7.5
717. 4 7.2 7.0 6.9

7.82 7.48 7.14 6.8Q 1436. 41l 6. 12 ,5. 78 5.44' 5.10 1434 75 4.41 4.07 3. 73 3.38

45 50
. 55 1░ 1 1 1 1 1 2 00 10 20 30 40 50 00

.6 . .8 1.0
}.3 2.1 3. 1 4.4 6.1 8.1 10.4

26i.6
3:JO. 3 399. 7 475. 7 647.5 845. 6 1070.3
. 1321. 3 150$. g

Cl l"l

z

tr.I

1-i

z

21 112
23
j4

7.5
7.5

239.4
9.3 9.3 9.2 9.2

mmo. 5

25

7.5 7.4
167.4 7.3

1.4 1.3

5.3
5.3

5.9
1195.6 5.3 6.1 4.8

!16 111
28 SKI

и 7.3

191. 3 1. 3
1.2 1.2 1.1

215.2

239.1
9.1 9.0 9.0.

.

1902. 7

7.3

30

7.2

5.1

5.2 5.1 5.0

.
I

5.8
5.6

8.9

7.8

6.7

.4.5

I

.

TABLE VI-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUD1'

39░ 30и.
Co-ordinates of curvature.

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (a.re par.)

Mlo.1
7"
8"

~--------

-

-- - - - - и

9"

и 10"

20"

3011

40"

50''

60"'

-:iO'
31 32

I I

Meridional arcs.

I
J

Minutes of longitude. Arc par.

x.

Y.

0 ~
~

.
.I
.5

...,
t>:l

33

M 35
36 :fl 38 39 49
41

167.2 7.2 7.1 7.1 7.1 7.0 167.0 6.9
6.9

191.1 1. I 1. 0 l.O

0.9 0.9 190.8 0.8 0.8 0. 7 0.7 190.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 190.4 0.3 II. 3 0.2 0.2 190,2 0.1 0. l 0.1 0.0 189.9 9.9 9.8 9.8 9.7

215.0 5.0 4.9 4.9 4.8 4.8 214.7 4'.6 4.6

238.9 8.9 8.8 8.7 8.7 8.6 238.G 8.5
8.4

477.8 7. 7 7.6 7.5 7.3 7.2 477.1 7.0
6.9 6.8

716. 7 6. 5 6.3 6.2 6.0 5.8 715.7 5.5 5.3 5.0 714. 8 4,6 4.5 4. 3
4.1

955.6 5.4 5.1 4.9 4.7 ' 4.4 954.2. 4.0 3.8 3.5 3.3
9~3.

1194. 5 4.2 '3.9
i

3. (j

3.3 3.1 1192. 8 2.5 2.2 1. 9 1. 6 1191. 3
1. 1

1433.38 3.04 2. 70 2.36 2.00 1. 67 1431. 33 o. 99

1"

2
3

4

30.8 61. 7 9'2.5 I 123.3 154.2 185.0 2Hi.9 246.7 277.5 308.4 616.7 925.l 123:!.5 1541.8 1850.2
3700. 4 G5f'>0. 7

1' 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9

-.o

.0 .0

.u

1. 2 2.1 3.3 4.8 6.5 8.5 10.7 13.3 29.8 5:3.0
8'2:9

H

c:: z
>-:3

l":I

I
I
I
1j

5 6 7 8
9
10

.o .o

I:'
OJ

6.9 6.8 166.8 6.7 6. 7 6.7
6.6

4.5

4.5

8.4 8.3 238.3 8.2
8.2 8.1

6.6 476.5 6.4 6.3 6.2 6.1 476.11 5.8 и 5. 7 5.6
5.5

5. 1

0.30 20. 96 I 1429.61 !l. 27
B. !)2

o. f4

.0 .0 .0 .0
.0

...,

..,
l":I

I>'-

42 43 44
45

.

214.4
4~4

.

4.3 4. 3 4.2
214.2

l 2.9 2.6
2.4

8.0
238.0

2.2 951.9 1. 7 1. 5
1. 2

0.8 0.5 0.2
1180. 9
(),6 !J.3

8.58 8.24
1427.89
7. 55
I

20 30 40 50

10и 15 20 25 30
35 40

00

.. o
.1 .2

c
0
~

llU. 3
Hl2. 4

CIJ >-:3
CIJ

46 47
48

49
60

166.6 6.5 6.5
6.5

4.1 4.1 4.0
4.0

6.4 166.4 6.3 6.3 6.3 6.2

7.9 7.9 7.8 7.8 237.7 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.5 237.4 7.4
7.3

713.9
3.8

3.6 3.4
3.3

1. 0

9.0 8.8
1188. 5

7.20 6.86 6.51 1426. 17
5.82

1' 00 2 3 4
5 6

.3
и4

212.2
26t!.5

9251.] lllOI. 3

1400. P

I

45 50

.6

Cl I':!
<l l":I >-d >".!
0

.8
]. 0

I

55 1░ 00
1 10

3.ll. 5 401,1

1. 3

477.4
64fl. 8

7
8

61

1'>2 {>3 M 55
56 67 58 69. 60

213.9 3.9 3.8.
3.8

3.7 213.7 3.6 3.6 3.5
3.5

475.4 5.l 5.2 5.0 4.9 474.8
4. 7

713.1 2.9 2. 7 2.6 2.4 712.2
2.0 ]. 9

!)5(), 8 0. 6 0. 3 0. 1 949.9
940. 6

12!!51. 5 14801.7
lll6fi2. ()

8.2 7.9 7.6 .7.'3

9

5.Ml G. 13 4.79 1424.44 4. 10
::I. 75

10 11 12

l8502.2 20352.4 22202.6

1 20 I 30 1 40 1 50 2 00

2.1 3. 1 4.5 6.1 8.2 10. 6

1'48.7 1074. 2 1320. l
16f.14. 6

t:O.

....

.., "'

00

1909.6

и

166.2 6.1 6.1 6.1 6.0

m11.o
G.7 6.G 6.2 5.9

9.4
0.2

7.2 7.2
-

4.6 4.5 4. 4

]. 7 1.5

8.9

8.7

3.41

3. 06

I

i

~

"""

*

~

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued,

I-'

.
Min.
711

LATITUDE

40░ 00' .

~
Co-ordinates of curvature. Meridional arc!.

ff:>.

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

8"

.

911
~

10"

20"

30"

40"

60"

60 11

Minutes of

x.
-.0 .0 .0
и0

Y.

fl'

166.0 6.0 6.9 5.9 5.9 5.8 165.8 5.7 u. 7 5.7 5.6 16.5. 6 6.5 5.5 189. 7 9.7 9.6 9.6 9.6 9.5 213.5 3.4
3.4

longitude. Arc par.

-237.2 7.1
7.1

I

1

3 4
5

.

3.3 3.3 3.2 213.1 3. 1 3.0 ' 3.8 2.9 . 212. 9 2.8 2.8 и2.7 2.7 212.6 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.4 212.4 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.2
2111.1 2.1 2.0 ]. 9 1,9

7.0 6.9 6.9 236.8 6.8 6. 7 6. 7 6.6 236.5 6.5 6.4. 6.4 6.3 \ 236.2
6.2

474.4 4.2 .4.1 4. 0 3.9 3.8 473.7 3.5 3.4 3.3 3.2 473.1 3.0 2.8 2.7 2.6 472.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.0 471.9
1.8

711. 5
1. 4

1. 2 1. 0 0.8 o. 7 710. 5 0.3 '0.1 709.8 709.6 9.4 9.3
9. I

948.7 8.5 8.3 8.0 7.8 7,6 947.3
7.1

1185. 9 5.6 5.3 5.0 4.7 4.4

1423.06 2.71 2. 37
2.02

1"

]. 68 1. 33 1420. 98 o. 64 0.29 19.94 19.60 1419. 25 8.90 8.55 8.20 7.86 1417. 51 7. 16 6, 81,' u.46 6.12 1415.77 5.42 5.07 4.72 4.37 1414.02 3.67 3.32 2.98 2.'63

2 3 4 5 6
7 8

30.8 61. 7 92.5 123.4 154. 2 185. 0 215.9 246.7 ' 277.6

1' 2
3

.1

!;t!

.5
I. 2

l".l ...,

4 5
6

2. 1

0 0

~

6
7 8 9

10

189.5 9.4 9.4 9.3 9.3 189.2 9.2 9.1 9.1 9.0 189.0 9.0 8.9 8.9 8.8
188.8 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.6
188.5

o.o

6.9 6.6 6.4 946. 2 5.9 5.7 5.5 5.2

1184. 1 3.9 3.6 3.3 3..0 1182. 7 2.4 2.1 1.8 1.5 1181. 3 1. 0 0.7 0.4 0.1 1179. 8 9.5
9.2

7
8

9 10 20 30 40 50
1'

9
10

11
J4

l2. 13

.

15

5.4

5.5

308.4 616. 8 925.2 1233.6 1542.0
1850.4

15 20 и 25
30 35

.o .o .0 .o .o .o
и0

и0

3.3 4.8 6.5
8.5

8

I'll

10.8 13.3 29.9 53.2 83.2 119. 7 163.0 212.9 269.4 332.6 402.5 479,0 651. 9 '651. 5 1077. 7 1330.5 1609.8 1915.9

8

P:l
l".l

q

131
'lj

.1 .2 .3 .4 .6 .8 1.0 1. 3 2. l
3.2

l-j

8.9 708.8 8.6 8.4 8.2 8.1 707.9 7.7 7.5 7.4 7.2 707.0 6.8 6.. 7 6.5 6.3

11

lfi

18 19 20
21
22

165.4 5.3 5,3

.

. ,5.2

5.3

6.1

1\.1

6.0
236.0

945. 0 4.8 4.5 4.3 4.1 943.8 3.6
3.4 3.2 2.9

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11

.oo

.....

t:i:l
8

z

3700.8 5551.1 7401. 5 9251. 9 11102. 3 12952.6 14803. 0 16653.4 18G03.8 . 20354.1 22204.5
1

40 45 50 55
JO 00
IO

t;j

z
8

z

t1 l".l

165.2
1>.l.

23 24 25
26
!fl 28

5.1 5.1 5.0

5,9 5;8 5.8 5.7
235.7 5.6 5.6 5.5 5.4

1.7 }.6 I. 5 471.3 1.2
1.1 1.0 0.8

8.9 8.6

12

1 1 1 1 2

20 30 40 50 00

4.5 6.2 8.3 10.7

165.0
4.9 4.9

и
81)

4.8 4.8

9и.5 8.4 8.4 8.3

942.7 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.8

1178.4 8.1 7.8 7.5 7.2

TABLE VL-Prqjection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDJ!

40░ 30'.

I
Min.

.
Length In metre~ of arcs of the parallel, ( ar~ par.) i

Co-ordioate1 of currature.

7"

8"

9..

1011

2011

30"

40''

5011

60"

Meridional

uea.

--Minutes of x. longitude . .A.re par.

Y.

0
'>j

, '""

-

I
164. 8 4.B 4.7 4.7 4.6 4.6
188. 3

'"3

30' 31

8.3
8.3

33
34

32

211. 9 1. 8 1.8
1. 7

8.2
8.2

235.4 5.4 !>. 3 5.3
5.2

3i
36 37
38

8.1 188.] 8,0 8.0 7.9 7.9 187.8 7.8 7.7 7.7 7.6 187.6 7.6 7.5 7.5 7.4 187.4 7.3 7.3 7.2 7.2 187.1 7.1
"7. 0

J. 7 J.6
211.6

5.1

470.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 470.2 0.1 469.9 9,8 9.7 469.6 9.5 9.4 9.2 9. I 469. 0 8.9 8.8 8.7 8.5 468.4 8.3 8.2 8.1 8.0 467.B 7.7 7.6 7.5 7.4

700.3 6. 1 6.0 5.8 5.6 5.4 705.3
5.1

941.8 1.5 l. 3
1.1 0.8

11771'2

6.9 6.6 6.::1
6.0

1412.63 12.28 ll. 93 II. 58 11. 23
IO. 88

l'' 2

3 4 5 6 7 8 9
IO

30.8 61. 7 w. 5 123. 4 154.2
185. 1

l' 2 3
4 5

-.0

0.6 940.4
O. l

5.7 1175. 4
5.1

164.6
4.5 4.5 4.4. 4.4 164.4 4.3 ... 3 4.2 4.2 164.2

J.5 1. l>
1. 4

.

235.1

39 40
41 42
43

I. 4 211. 3 1. 3 1. 2 J.2
1.1

5.0 5.0 4.9 4.8 234.8 4.7 4.7 4.6 4.6 234.5 4.4 4.4 4.3 4.3 234.2 4.2 4.1 4.0 4.0 233.9 3.8 3.8 3.7 3. 7

4.9 4.7 4.6 704.4 4.2 4.0 3.9 3.7 703.5 3.3 3.2 3.0 2.8 702.6 2.5 2.3
2. 1

39. 9 9. 7 9.4 939.2 8.9 8. 7 8.5 8.2
938.0

4.9 4.6
4.3

1410.53 10. 18 09.83 09.48 09.12 1408. 77 8.42 8.07 7. 72 7.37 1407.02 6.67 6. 31 5.96 5.61
1405. 26

215.9 246. 7 277.6 308.4 616.8 925.3 1233.7 1542. J 1850.5 3701. 1 5551. 6 7402.1 9252.7 11103. 2 12953. 8 14804.3 16654.8 )8fJ()5. 4 20355. 9
22206.4

6 7
8

9
IO

.o .o .o .o .o .0 .o
.o

иI
.5 1. 2

l>;1 ~

~

2. 1

2: ....
'"3
~

?.. 3
4.8 6.5
8.5

t:;j

'"3

rn
p..

10.8

'"3 l.'l

20

15

1174. 0 3.7 3.4
3.1

30 40 50
11 00

20 25 30
35

.o .0 .o
.l

.2
.3 .4 .6 .8 1. 0

13.3 30.0 53.4 83.4 120.1 163.5 213.5 270.2 333.6 403.6 480.4
65:1.8

rn
C'.l

0 p..
00

44 45 -46 47
48

'"3
00 ~

2.8

4.1

49
60

4. 1
4.0

21I. l 1.0 0.9 0,. 9

4.0 163.9 и3.9 3. 9 3.8 3.8 163.7 3, 7
3.7

9.S

7.8 7.5 7.3 7.1 936.8 6.6 6.4 6.1 5.9 935. 7 5.4 5.2 5.0 4.7

1172.5 2.2 J. 9 1. 6
1. 3

2 3
4

40
45

5 6 7
8

50 55
}O 00

-< l.'l
><
~
'>j

l>.l

51
62

53
54

55
56

I

57
08

.

и

210.8 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 210.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3

1.9 701. 7
I. 6 J. 4

1171. 0 0.8 0.5 0.2 69.9 1169.6 9.3 9.0 8.7 8.4

4.91
4.55

9
10 11 12

4.20 3. 85 1403.56 3. 14 2.79 2.44 2.08

1 1 1 1 1 2

to 20 30 40 50 00

1. 3 2. 1 3.2 4.6 6.3 8.3 IO. 8

0

8'>4. 0 1080.8 1334. :~
1614.(\

..,

00 <:.l1

....

1921.5

69
6Q

3.6 3.6

7.0 6.9

1. 2 1. 0

l!>--

lo-<

1:;'1

"'

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATlTlll>lil 410

~

O')

"'""

00'.

:tи
.
/

*
Co-ordinates of curv11ture.

Length in metres ofares of the parallel, (arc par.)
&''

9"

10''

20"

30''

4()//

50"

60"

Meridionlll 11rce.

-

Ilongitude.
l" 2 3

Minutes of

Arc par .

x.

Y.

O' 1

I 163.6
3.5 3.6 3.5 3.4 3.4 163.3 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2 163.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 3.0 162.9 2.9 2.8 2.8
!U
l~.'I

2 3 4 5

186. 9 6.9 6.9 6.R 6.8 6. 7 186.7 6.6 6.6 6.5 6.5 186.4 6.4 6.3 6.3 6.2 186.2 6.1 6.0 6.0
186.0 5.9 5.9 5.8 5.8
6.1

210.3 fl.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.9 210.0 209.9 9.9 9.A 9.8 209.7 9. 7 9.6 9.6 9.5 209.5 9.4 9.4 9.3 9.2

233.7 3.6 3.6 3.5 3.4
3.4

467.4 7.2 7.1 7.0 6. 9 6.8 46t'i.7 6.5 6.4 6.3 6.2 466.1 5.9 5.8 5.7 5.6 465.5 5.4 5.2 5.1 6.0 464.9 4.8 4. 6 4.5 4.4 464.3 4.2 4.0 3. 9
3.8

701.0 09 0.7 0.5 0.3 0.2 700.0 699.8 9.6 9.4 9.3 699. l 8.9 8. 7 8.6 8.4 698.2 8,0 7.9 7.7 7.5 697.3 7.1 7.0 6.8 6.6 696.4 6.2 6.1 5,9 5.7

934. 7 4.5 4.3 4.0 3.8 3.5 933.3 3.1 2.8 2.6 2.4 932.2 1. 9 1. 7 1. 4 1.2 931. 0 o. 7 0.5 0.2 0.0 929.8 9.5 9.3
9.1

1168. 4 7.8 7.5 7.2 6.9
1166. 6 6. 3 6.0 5.8 5.5
8.1

1402.08 1.73 1.38
1. 02

0.67 0.32 1399. 96 9. 61 9.25 8.90 8.55 1398. 19 7.84 7.48 7. 13 6.77 1396. 42 6,06
5. 71 5,35

4

30.8 61.7 92.5 123.4 154.2 185.l 215.9 246.8 277.6 308. 4
616. 9

3 4 5 6 7
8
9

l' 2

-.0

.0

.o .o

.1 .5 1.2 2.1
3.3 4.8 6.6 8.6 10.8 13.4 30. l 53.5 83.6 120.4 163.9 214.1 270,9
334.5

~

l1J 'ti 0
~
~

6 7 9
10

8

233.3 3.3 3.2 3.1 3.1 233.0 3.0 2.9 2.8 2.8 232.7 2.7 2.6 и2.6 2.5 232.4 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.2 232.1 2.1 2.0 2,0 1.9

5 6 7 8 9 10
20

.o .o

10

11

12
Ia 14 15

1165. 2 4.9 4.6 4.3 4.0 1163. 7 3.4 3.1 2. B 2.5 1162.2 1. 9 1. 6 1. 3
l. 0

30

40 50
l' 00

925.3 1233. 8 1542.2 1850.7 3701.4 5552. I 7402.8 9253.5 11104.2 12954.9 14805.6 16656,3 18507.0 20357.7 22208.4

15 20 25 30
35

.o .o .o .o
.2

и0

0
l'Zj
~

t:lJ
C'll Cj

~

.1 .1

'ti
t.>.I
~
1-(

16 17 18.
19 20
21

2 3 4
5

40 45 50
55

.3 .4 .6 ,8
I. I

~
~

to:!
~

5.00 1394.64 4.29 3,93 3. 57 3.22 1392.56 .2. 50 ' и2.1rt 1. 79 1.43

6 7 8 9
10 11

404. 7 481.6 65f>.5 856.2 1083. 7
1337.9

t:i

009.2
9.1

2'J 23
~

2.'7

25 26

2.6 2.6 2.5

9.1 9.0 9.0 208.9 8.9

10 1 1 I

8.8 9'28. 6 8.3
8.1

12

162.5 2.4 2.4
~3

'rJ
28
29 3Q

2.a

185. 7 и 5. 7 5.6 5.6 5.5

. 8.8

8.8
8.7

1160. 7 0.4
0.1

.

00 10 20 30 I 40 1 50 2 00

l. 4 2.2 3. 3 4. 7 6.4 8.5
11. l

t:i;! ~ ":)

1618.8 1926.5

7.9 7.6

1159.8 9.5

TABLE YI.-Projectiun Tables-Continued.
LATITllDE 410

30'.

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

Co-ordinates. of curv!lture. Meridional arcs.

J&.

.

,

7"

9и

9'' и

10"

20''

30"

4{)"

50"

60''

Minutes of x. longitude. Arc par.

Y.

0 '<J

lll
t.-:1

8

33 M
35
36

30' 31 и 32

162.3 2.3
2. 3 2.2

185.5

2.2 2.1 162.1 2.0и 2.0 2.0 1. 9 161.9 I. 8 1. 8
I. 8

5.5 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3

208.7 8.7 8.6 8.6 8.4

8.5

231.9 J.8 1.8 1. 7
1. 7 1.6

463,8 3. 7 3.6 3.5 3.3 3.2 463.1 3.0 2.9 2.7 2.6 462.5 2.4 2.3 2.1 2.0 461. 9 l. 8
l. 7 1.5

695.7 5.5 5.4 5.2 5.0 4.8 694.6 4.5 4.3 4.1 3.9 693.7 3.6 3.4 3.2 3.0 692.9 2.7 2.5 2.3 2.1 692.0
1. 8

927.6
7.4

7.2 6.9 6.7 6.4 926.2 6.0
5. 7 5.5

1159.5 9.2 8.9 8.6 8.3 8.0 1157. 7 7.4 7.1 6.B 6.5 1156. 2 6.0 5.7 5.4
5.1

1391. 43 1.08 0.72
0.36

2 3 5
6

l"

89.65 1389.29 8.93 8.58 B.22 7.86 1387.50 7.15 6.79 6.43 6.07 1385. 71 5.35 4.99 4.64 4.28 1383. 92
3.56 3.20

o. 01

4

123.4

61. 7 9'2. 5

30.8

l'

2 3
4

-.0

.o .o

40
41 4:l 43
44

'Ц1 38 39

185.2 5.2 i.1 5.1 5.0 185.0 5.0 4.9 4.9 4.8 184.8 4.7 4.7 4.6 4.6 184.5 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3
184.. 3

208.4 8,3 8.3 8.2
8.:l

231.5
1. 5

l.4 1.4 1.3 231.2 1.2
1.1 1.1 1. 0

7 8
9

154.2 185.1 215.9 246.8 277.6
308.5

5

6
7

8 9 10 20 25
30
35

5.2 925.0 4.8 4.5 4.3 4.0 923.8 3.6 3.3
3.1

208.1 8.] 8.0
B.O

10 20 30 40 50 l' 00 2 3 4 5
6

617.0 925.4 123:?. !) 1542. 4 1850.9 3701. 7 5552.6 7403.4 9254.3
ll105. l

l&

.o .o .o .o .o .o .o .o
.1 .1 .2 .3 .4 .G .8
1.1

.1 и5 1. 2 2.1 3.4 4.8 6.6 8.6
10. 9

~

21 ,..,
8
l.rj

1:1
00

8 I>
~

t.-:1
CJ:I

13. 4 30.2 53.6 83.8
1~0.7

0

0
i:a """

8

tQ

45 46 47 48 49

1. 7 161. 7 I. 6 1. 6 1. 5 1. 5 161. 4 1. 4 1.3 1.3 161, 2 1. 2 1.2 1.1 1.1

7.9 207.9 7.8 7.7 7.7 7.6 207.6 7.5
7.5

w

231.0 230.9 0.8 0.8 o. 7 230.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 230.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1

1.4 461.3 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.8 460.7 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.2

2.9 9'22. 6 2.4 2.1 l. 9 1. 7 921. 4 0.9 0. 7 0.4
1.1 и

1154. 8 4.5 4.2 3.9 3.6 1153.3 3.0 2. 7 2.4 2.1 1151. 8 ].5
1.2

40 45 50 55 1░ 00 1 20 1 30 1 40
l 50

164.3 214.5 271.5 335.2 405.7 482.8 (157, l 858.2
1086. 2

~

I'd
~ l.rj

51 &2 63 54 65 56 57
58

7 8 9
10

]. 4

1. 6
J. 4

7.4 7.4 207.3 7.3 7.2 7.2
7.1

1. 2

2.84 2.48 138'.?. 12 1. 76 1. 40 I. 04 0,68

11 12

12956.0 14806. 9 16657. 7 18508.6 20359.4 22210. 3

l

10

1.4 2.2 3.3 4.7
6.5

><l '<J 0

....
C.:>

~

00

2 00

8.6 11.2

1:.l41. 0 162:!. 6
1931.1

~"

69
60

4.2 4.2 4. 1
4.1

691. 1 0.9 0.7 0.5 0.3

0.9 0.6

I

I

.......

tj::o. "";f

*

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
laTlTUDE

IP00

.....

420 0()1.

"'
Co-ordinti.tes of curvature.

I&.

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

7"

8"

9''

10''

20''

30"

4()''

Meridional are11.
60"

60''

Minutes of

longitude. Aro par.

x.

Y.

--и
O' l 2 3 4
6 161.1

1.0
0.9 0,9
160.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 160.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 160.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2

]; 0 1.0

184. l 4. 0 4.0 3.9

201:1
7.0 7.0 6.9 6.9 6.8 206.8 6.7 6.7 6.6 6.6

3.9 3. 9
183, 8 3.8 3.7 3. 7

230. l O. l 0.0 29.9 9.9 9.8 229. 7 9.7 9.6 9.6 9.5 229.5 9.4 9.3 9.3 9.2

460.2
0.1 o. 0 59.9 9.7 9.6 469.5 9.4 9. 3 9.1 9. 0 458.9

690.3 0.2 0.0 689.8 9.6 9.4 689. 3 9.1 8.9 8. 7 8.5 688.4 8.2 8.0 7.8 7.6 687.4 7.3 7.1 6.9 6. 7 686.5 6.4

920.4 0.2 0.0 919. 7 9.5 9.2 919. 0 8.8 8.5 8.3 8.0 917.8 7.6 7.3 7.1 6.8 916,6 6.4 6.1 5.9 5.6 915.4 5.1 4.9 4.7

1150.6

0.3

o.o
49.7 9.4 9.1

1380. 68 o. 3-l 79.96 9.60 9.24

1" 2 3 4

30.9 61. 7 92.6 123. 4 154. 3 185. l 216,0 246.8 277. 7 308.5 617.0 9'i5. 5 l:J34.0 1542.5 1851.0 37112. 0 5553. l 7404.1 92.55. l 11106. l 12957.1 14808.2 16650. 2 18510. 2 20361. 2 22212. 2
I

I' 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9
10 15 20 25 30

-.0

l:tl
tij

.o
1. 2.
3.
и0

.o .o .o .o .o .o
.0

и0

"O 0
~

8.88
1378.52 8.15 7.79 7.43 7.07 1376.71 6.35

5
6

'"3

6 7 8 9 10

1148. 8 8. 5

8.2
7.9 7.6 1147. 3 7.0 6.7 6.3 6.0 1145.7
5. 4

7 8 9
10 20 30 40 50
1 1 00 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 и12

4.
6. . 8. 10.
13.

0 '>:I
1-'3

ll1
t.:lj
11l ~

3.6
183.6 3.5 3.5 3.4 3.4 183. 3 3.3 3. 2 3.2 3.1 183.1 3.0 3.0 2.9 2. 9

11
12 13 14
16

206,5 6.5 6.4 6.3 6.3
206.2 6.2 6.1 6.1 6.0
206.f> 5.9 5.9 5. 8' 5.7

8.8 8.7 8. 5
8.4

.1
.1 .2

5.99
5.62 5.26 '1374. 90

30. 53. 84. 120. 164. 6 215. 0 272. 33.5. 9 406. 4 483. 7 658. 4 860. 0 1088. 3 1843. 7 1625. 8 1934. 9

"O

t-.l

.....

t:d

17
JS

J6

m.1

to
21 2'.l
24

19

9.1 9,0 9.0 8.9

458. 3 8.2 8.1 7.9 7.8 457.7 7.6 7.5 7.3 7.2 457.1 7. 0 6.8 6.7 6.6

4.54
4.17 3;131 3.45 1373,09 2.72 2.36 2.00 1.64 1371. 27 o. 91 0.55 0.18 1369.82

35 40 45

.3
.4 .6 .8 1.1 1. 4 2,2

z

'"3

50
05

z

t_tj

5.1 4.8 4.5 1144, 2 3.9 3.6 3.3 3.0

ti

l!d

1░ 00
10

>i

z

tJ

15
26 'J'I

160.t 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0
160.0 159.9

228.9 8.8 8.7 8.7 8.6

6.2
6.0 5.8

4.4
914.2 3.9 3. 7 3.5 3.2

1 1 1 l 2

20 3.3 30 4.8 40 6.5 50 8. 7 00 ~ 11. 3

182.8
2.8 2.7 2.7 2.6

28

9.9
9.9

29 30

9.8

205.7 5.6 6.6 6.5 5.5

228.5
8.5 8.4 8.4 8.3

685,6 5.5 5.3 5.1 4.9

1142.7 2.4 2.1 1.8 l. 5

TABLE VL-Prq;ection Tables-Oontinued.
J~TlTUUE 42б

30',

Length in llletres of area of the parallel, (arc par.)

Co-ordiJlates of curvature. Meridiona.l Mca.

Min.
7''
8''
9"

10"

W'

319"

40"

50''

60"

-

Minute1of longitude. Arc par.
l" 2 3 4 30.9 61.7 I, 2 3 4 5 6 'I 8 9 10 15 20
25

x.

Y.

0

~ ~

30'

31
32

33

34
36
~

35
38

159.8 9.8 9.7 9.7 9.6 9.6
159.6

182. 6

2.6
2.4 2.4

205.5

2.5
~.5

5.4 5.4 5.3
5.3 5.2

228.3 8.2 8.2 8. l 8. l
8.0 227.9 7.9 7.8

4(-.6. 6 6.5 6.4

6.2
6.1 6.Q 455. 9 5.8 5.6 5.5 5.4 455.3 Ii.I 5.0 4.9 4.8 454. 7 4.5 4.4
4. 3

684. 9 4.7 4.5 4.4 4.2 4.0 683.8 3.6 3.5 3. 3 3.1 682.9 2.7 2.5 2.4 2.2 682.0 1. 8 1. 6 1.4 1.3

913.2 3.0 2.7

2.6
2.2 2.0 911.8 1. 6
l. 0

1141. 5 J.ll 0.9 0.6 0.3

o.o
9.4

1369.82 9.45 11.09 8. 73 8.36 8.00 1367.63 7.27 6.90 6.54 6.17 1365.81 5.44 5.08 4.71 4.35 1363.98 3.62
3.25

-.0

92.6
123.4 164.3 H~5. l 216.0 246.8 277. 7 308.5 617.1 925.6 1234.1 1542.7 1851.2 3702.4 5553.5 7404.7
9255.9

9.5
9.5 9.4 9.4

39 40

182. 4 2.3 2.3 2.2

205.2
5.1 5.0 6.0 4.9 204.9 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.7 204.6 4.5 4.5 4.4 4.4 204.3 4.3

1139. 7

2.2
2.1
2.0 2.0 1. 9

7.B

t. a

9. 1
8.8 8.5 1138. 2 7.9 7.6 7.3 7.0 1136. 6 6.3 6.0 5.7 5.4
1135. l 4.8 4.5 4.2

5 6 'I 8

9
10

7.7 227.6 . 7. 6 7.5 7.5 7.4 227.3 7.3 7.2 7.1 7.1 227,0 7.0 6.9

0.8 910.5 0.3 0. 0 909.8 9.6 909.3
9,1

43 44

41 42
45

Hi9.3 9.3
9.3 9.2 9.2 159.1 9.1 9.0 9.0 9.0

182.1

i40
50

.l .l

.o .0 .o .o .o .o .o .o .o .o
.2

.1

=
l'::t

2.2
3.4 4.8 6.6 8.6 10.9 13. 5 30. 4 53.8 84. 1 121. 1 164.9 215. 4 272.5 336.5 407.l 484.6 659.5 861.4 1090. 2 1346. 0 1628.6 1938.2

,5 1.2

Cl

.... 8
~

l"Jl

~
l7J

~ 11>-

8 l'::t
!XI

c
0
8
~
Oil

30
35

46
4.7 48 49
50

181. 9 1. 8 1. 8 1. 7 1.7 181.6 1.6 1.5 l.5 1. 4

l' 00 2 3 4
5

и
10 1 1 J
l

4.2 454.0 3.9 3.8 3. 7 3.6 453.4 3. 3 3.2 3.1 3.0

8.8 8.6 8.3

40 45 50 55 00 10 20 30 40 50 00

.3 .4 .6 .8 I. l
1. 4 2.3 3. 4 4.8 6.6

m
c:j
~ ~

l'::t
~

2.88 2.52

6 7 8 9 10 11 12

11107. 1 12958.3 14809. 4 ]6660.6 18.'\ll. 8 20363.0 22214.2

"!I
0
pj

51
52

168.9
8.9 8.8

53

65 56 57
58 59 till

54

8.8
8.7 158. 7 8.7 8.6 8.6 8.5

4.2 4.2 4.1
204.0 4.0 3.9 3.9

6.8
6.8 226.7 6.7 6.6 6.5 6.5

681. l 0.9 o. 7 0.5

0.3
680.2

908.1 7,9 7.6 7.4 7.1
006.9 6.6 6.4 6.1 5.9

1362. 15
1. 79 1.42 1. 05

.....

9.9

0.69
1360. 32 59.95
~.59

1 2

8.8 ll. 4

s.o

c.,

00

181. 4 1.3 1. 3 l. 2 1.2

o.o

79.8 9.6

3.8

9.4

1133.6 3.3 3.0 2.7 lU

9.22 8.85

..... *
~ ~

TABLE VI.-Pr<decti-On Tables-Continued.
LATlTtll>E

430 00'.

0

OI

'""'

и

Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

Co-ordinates of cUTiature.

Min.
7" 8"

9"

10"

20''

30"

40"

50"

60''
-

Meridional arcs.

x. Minutes of longitude. Arcpo.r.
1'
2

Y.

lY

158.5
S.5 8.4 S.4 8.4 8.3

1

181.2 1.1
1.1

и
6

I 8

1.0 1.0 0.9
180. 9 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7

203.8 3.8 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.6 203.5 3.4 3.4 3.3 3.3 .203.2 3. 2 3.1 3.1 3.0 302.9 2.9 2. 8 2.8 2.7 202. 7 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.4 202.4

226.5 6.4 6.3 6. 3 6.2 6.2 22,!i. l 6.0 ' 6. 0 5.9 и 5. 9
22.'i.B

453.0 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.3 452.2 2.1 2.0 l. 8 I. 7 451.6 1. 5 1.4 1. 2 I. I 451.0 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.5 450.4 0.2 449.9

679.4 9.2 9.1 8.9 8. 7 8.5 678.3 8.1 8.0 7.8 7.6 677.4 7.2 7.0 - 6.8 6.7 676.5 6.3 6.1 5.9 5.7 675.6 5.4 5.2
.5.0

905.9 5. 7 5.4 5.2 4. 9 4.7 904.4 4.2 3. g 3.7 3.4 903.2

1132. 4 2.1 1. 8 I. 5 I. 2 0.8
1~30. 5'

1358.85 8.48 8.12 7.75 7.38 7.02 1356.65 6.28 5. 91
5,64

1" 2 3

4 5
6

30.9 61. 7 92.6 123.4 154.3 185.1 216.0 246.8 277.7 308.6 617.1 925.7 I234.2 1542.8 1851. 3 3702.7 5554.0 7405.4 9'256. 7 11108. I 12959.4 14810. 7 16662. 1 18513.4 20364.8 . 22216.1

-.o

3
4

.o

.0 .0

.1 .5 1. 2 2.2 3.4 4.9 6.6 8.6 10.9 13.5 30.4 53.9 84.2 121. 3 165.1 215.6 273.0 337.0 407.8 485.2 660.5 862.6 I091. 8 1347.9 I630. 9 1940.9

l1J
t;:J

I'd 0 l1J

и

5 6
7

.0 .0 .0

7
8 II 10
11

6

158.3 8.2 8.2 8.1 8.1

0.2 29.9 9.6 9.3 1129. 0 8.7 8.4 8.1 7.8 .1127.5 7.2 6.9 6.5 6.2 1125. 9 5.6 5.3 5.0 4.7 1124.4 4.1 3.8 3.5 3. J

7 8 9 1t 20 30 40 50 1 00 2 3 4 5
6
1

8 9 15 . 20
25
IO

.o .o

8 0
":l

8 ?::::
l.oj

5. 17 13U4. 81 4.44 4.07 3.70 3. 33 1352. 96 2.59 2.22 1.85 1.48 I351. 11 0. 74 o. 37
0.00

.o
.1 .1

.o
.2

m
c::j

. 158.1

14
16

13

12

'

~.9

8.0

a. 0

7.9 157,8 7.8 7.8

180.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.4 180.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 180.1 0.1

5.6
5.6 225,5 6.4

5.1 5. 7

2.7 2.5 2.2

:to

>ti t'il
I-!

3tl
35

l:d

16
17
18

19
20
21
22 23 !M 15

7.7

6.4

902.0 1. 7 1. 5
l. 2

40 45 50 55 10 1 1 1 1 1 2 00 10 20 30 40 50. 00

.3 .4 ,6 .8 I. I 1.4 2.3 3.4 4.9 6.7 8.9

!Z 8

z

t;:J

t:;I

trJ,,

7,7

5.3 5.2
2'25. 2 5.1 5.1 6.0 4.9

1. 0 900.7 0.5 0.2 0.0 899.8 899.5 9.3 9.0 8.8 8.5

157.6

7.6
7.5 7.5 7.5

o.o o.o o.o

7 8 9
10

l2l >-3

o.o

0.1

4.8 674.6 4.4 4. 3 4.1 3.9

49.63
1349126

11 12

.

11.6

26 :l1

19 30

ts

'

157.4 7.4 7.3 7.3

7.2

179.9 9.9 9.8 .9.8 9.7

2.3
~3

lU 2.2

224.9 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.6

449.8 9.6 9.5 9.4 9.3

8.89 8.52 8.15 7.78

TABLE VI.-Pr<jection Tables-Continued.
LATITf/1)Б

430 30'.

Length in metres of иarea of the parallel, (arc pe.r
Min.

~---- _'__ _ _ _ - - - 50"

J
Meridional arcs.

Co-ordinatll!! of curvature.
0

7"

8"

9''

10"

20"

3011

401'

60"

x. Minutes of longitllde. A.re par.
1' 2

Y.

~

8

-------- ---30' 31
3'J 3g
34

35

157.2 7.2 7.2 7.1 7.1 7.0 157.0 6.9 6.9

179. 7
9.7

2~.2

9.6 9,6 9,5 9.5

2.1 2.1 2.0 1. 9 1.9 201.8 J. 8 J. 7 1. 7
), 6

224 6 4.6 4.6 4.4 4.4 4.3
224.3 4.2 4.1 4.1 4. 0

449.3 9.1 9.0
8.9 8.8

8.6 448.5 8.4 8.3 8.1 8.0 и 447.9 7,8 7. 7 7,5 7.4
447. 3

673.9 3.7 3.5 3.3 3.1 3.0 672.8 2.6 2.4 2.2

898.5 8.3 8. 0 7.8 7,5 7.3 897.0 6.8 6.5 6.3 6.0 895.8 5.5 5.3 5.1 4.8
894.6

.

---1"

Ill
l.:<j

1123.1 2.8 2.5
2.2 ]. 9

1.6 1121. 3
l. 0

1347.78 7.41 7.04 6.67 6. 3() 5.93 1345.56 5. 18' 4.81 4.44 4.07 1343, 70 3.32 2.05 2.58 2. 21
1341. 84 1. 46 I. fl9

2
3

4
5

30. 9 61. 7 9'J. 6 123.4 154.3 rn5. 2 216. 0 24fi. 9 277.7 308.6 617.2 925.8 1234.3 1542.9 1851.5 3703. 0
5554. 5

3 4
5 6 7 8 9
10

"'-, 0 .0 .0 и0

.l

d
!2l
1--1

.5
1.2

2.2
3.4 4.9 6.6 8.6 10.9 13.5 30. 4' 54.0 84. 3 121.4 165.3 215.9 273.3 337.3 408.2 485.8
661.2

in

39
40

36 87 38

6.9
6.8

179.4 9.4 9.3 9.3 9.2
179.2

2.u

o. 7 0.4 0.1
1119. 7 9.4 9.1 8.8 8.5
1118. 2

6 7 8 9 10 20
.30

.o .o .o
.0
и0

"" t:1

m
1-3
~ ""'
l.:<j

41 42 43

156.8

44 45

6. 7 6. 7 6.6 6.li

9.1 9.1 9,0 9.0 178.9 8.9
8.8

201.6 1. 5 1. 4 1.3 201. 3
1. 2

224.0
3.9

1.4

3.9 3.8 3.7 223,6 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.4 223.3 3.3 3.2 3.] 3.1
223.0 2.9 2.9 2.8 2.8

671. 8 1. 7
], 5

15 20
25 30

.o .o
.1 .l

m

c
0
II"
11l ~

40
50

.2 .3 .4 и6 '8 1.1
], 5

1. 3
l. 1

lи 00
2
3

35
40 45

m

d

46
47 48
49

156.5
6.5 6.5 6.4 6.4
156.3 6.3
ti.2

8.8
8.7 178.7
8.6

], 2 I. 1
]. l

50
51
62

7.2 7,0 6.9 6.8
446. 6

670.9 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.2 b'70. 0 69.8 9.6 9. '1 9.2 669.0 8.0 8.7 8.5 8.3

4.3
4. l

3.8 3.6 893.3 3.1 2.8 2.6 2. 3 892.1 1. 8 1. 6 ]. 3 ]. 1

7.9 7.6 7.3 7.0
1116. 6

4

7406, ()

0.72

5
6
7
8

o. 34 I
9. 60 I

9257.5 ] 1109. 0

50 55
lD 00 1 }() 1 20 1 30
1
40

<!l
l!!j
~

~

'-':l

63
54 55

6.2 6.2.
156.1

8.6 8.5 8.6 178.4 8;4 8.3 8.3 8.2

201. 0 0.9 и 0.9 0.8 o. 8 200.7 0.7 0.6 0.5
0.5

1339. 97 i 9. 22 8.85 8.48 1338.10 7.73 7.36 6, 98 I 6. 61 '

6.5 6.4 6.3 6.2 446. 0 6.9
5.8

6.3 6.0 5. 7 5.4
1115. 1

9
10

11

12

12960.5 14812. 0 16663.5 lSiHfi. 0 20366.5 22218.0

2.3 3.5 4,9
6.8
9.0

0

863.6
1093. 0

,...
00 Cll
~

~

1349.4
163~.8

I

50

2

00

11. 7

1943.1

56
51 58

59

6.0 6.0
5.9

0.1

60

5. 7 5.5

4.8 4.5 4.1 3.8

I

l--'

......

01

"'

TABLE VI.-Prqjection tables-Continued.
Lu1Tun1: 440 00'.

<:;11 t..)

.....

*
Co-ordinate& of curvature.
50''

Length ln metres of area of the parallel, (arc par.)

:M1n.
7и 8"

.911

10''

20"

30''

40"

60"

Meridional area. Minuteeof

-

longitude. Arc par.

x.

Y.
lid l2.l
"d

4Y иl

и
3

8 Ii 10
11
jfl

" '
5
6

156.9 5.9 5.8 5.8 5.8 5. 7

178.2 8.2 8.1 8.1 8.&
8.0

200.5 0.4 0.4 0.3
O.:l 0.2

m.s

2.6
2.5 2.5
!82.4 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.1

2.7 2.6

445.5 5.4 5.3 5.2 5.0
4.9

668.3 8.1 7.9 7.7 7.6 7. 4 667.2 7.0
6.8 6.6

891.1 0.8 U.6 .0.3

O.l

889.8

1113.8 3.5 3.2 2.9 2.6 2.3 1112.0 1. 7 I. 3 1. 0 0.7 1110. 4 0.1 1109,8 9.5 9.2
и ll08.8

1336.61
6.23 5.86

l"

5.48
5.11

2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9

30.9 61. 7 92.6 123.4 154.3 185. 2 216.0 246.9 277.8 308.6 617.2 925.8 1234.4 1543.1 1851. 7 3703.3 5555.0 7406.7 9'Uia. 3 11110.0 12961. 7 14813. 3 16665.0 18516.7 20368. 3 22220.0

1' 2 3 4 .

4.74 1334.36 3.99 3.61 3.24 2.86 1332.49
2.11

155. 'i 5.6 5.6
и 5.5
l>..5

1"7. 9 7.9 7.8 7.8 7.7 1"7. 7

200.2 0.1 0.0

o.o

199.9

444.8 4. 7 4.5 4.4 4.3 444.2

6.4 666.2
6.1

889.6 9.3 9.1 8.8 8.6 888.3
8. l

5 6 7 B 9
10

155.5
5.4 6..4 li.3 5. 3

13 14 16

r;6

7.6 7;5 7.5 177.4 7.4 7.3

199.9 9.8 9.8 9.7 9.6 199.6 9.5 9.5 9.4
9.4

222.1 2.0 2.0

4.0

]. g J.8

3. 9 3.8 3. 7

5.9 5.7 5.5 665.3 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.5
664.4

7.8 7.6 7.3 887.1 6.8 6.6 6.3
6.1
885,8

l. 73 J.36 0.98 1330.61 0,23 29.85 9.48 9.10 1328. 73 8.35 7.97 7.60 7. 22
.1326.84 6.46 6.09 5.71 5.33

20 30 40 50 . 1' 00 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10

JO

15 20
2.5
30

-.o .o .o .o .o .o .o .o .o .o .o
.1
.2
.3 .4 .6 .9 1.1
1.5

.1
.5

1. 2 2.2

3.4 4.9 6.6 8.6 10.9
13.5 30.4 54.0 84.4 121.5

0 t:tl 1-i 0
l:i:J

'"3
::X1 '-".:!

m
C'.l
1-t) pj

.1

II:!

11 ' 155.9 s;a l'f
18
19

98
21
22
23

s:1 &.. 1 5:1

7.i
17'7.2 7.1 7.1 7.0 7.0
176. 9

7.3

221.8 J. 7 1.6 1.6
1.5

443.5 3.4 3.3 3.2
3.0

8.5 8.2 7.9 7.6

35 40 45
50 55
JO 00

156.0 5.0
4,9

199.3 9.3
fl,2

221.5 l.4
].3 1.3 J,j

~tr

4;9 4.8

~1 .I
199.0 9.0 8.9 8.9 8.8

442.9 2.8 2.7 2.5
2.4

4.2 4.0 3.8 3.6
663.4 3.2 3.0 2.9

5.6 5.3 5.1
4.8

1107. 3 7.0 6.6 6.3 6.0 1105.7 5.4 5. Iи 4.8 4.4

11

12

1 ao 1 40 1 50
2 00

l 10 1 20

2.3 3.5 4.9 6.8 9.1 11.8

165.4 21 >-3. 216.l /t;<j 273.5 !ZI 337.6 t:1 408.5 t>.i !ZI 486.l "3 661. 7 864.3 1093.9 1350.4
16:J4.9

.....

1944.6

i ии

154.8
4.8

=и

4.7 4,7 4.6

6.9
6.8

221.1 1.1

46.3 2.2
2.0

1,0

6.8
6,7

1.0
~.9

1.9 1.8

2.7

884.6 4. 3 4.1 3.9 3.6

.

TABLE YL-Projection TablM-Continued.
L...TtTUl>ll:
~-~~------и-___.._.-

440 3(V,

Length in metres of arcs of the pa.rallel, (nrc par.)

ii I'

J&.

/

7N

и--;-/---;:-----1~ 1

20" 1

3011

-

I

40"

l

-----------11 I
50"' 60"

Co--0rdinatce of
------- -- -

curvatur~.

ii

Moridioni1l 11.rcs.

,,--

-fl

I\

II

\l.Unutee of' X. 101igitude. Arc par.
----ии......JI

Y.

0 >i::

..,
::r1

30"
31

3-i ~ 33
~

3'1 35
36 37 38

154.6 4.6 4. 5 4. 5 4. 4 4. 4

11G.1
6.7 6. 6 6. 6 ll. 5 6, 5

rne. s
8,7 8. 7 8. 6 II. 6 8, 5

z-20. 9 0,8 O. 8 o. 7 O. 6 U. 6

441. s 1.6 l. 5 1. 4 1. 3 1. I

U62. 1 2,5 2. 3 2. l J. 9 I. 7

883. 6
3.3 :J. I 2. 8 2. 5 2. 3
8H~.O
I'

II01, 4 4. l 3.8

1:!'25. ;13 4. g;; 1~
4. 5il
If

i

1---1------

ti:l

3.5
3.2 2.9

4. 20

i
1i
1,

JN 2 3
4 r; 6

30,9

61. 7 9!. 6

12!3. 5

V 2 3. 4

-,0

. () и0

.o

иI
.5

l. 2

2.2 3.4
4.9 6.6 8.fl
10. 9

z .... ...,
ttj t:;j
CE

c.::

a. s2 и\i' 3. 44 '
13~!l.

154.3
1%.2

s
6

.n

154.4
4. 3 4. 3 4. 2 4.2

176.4
6. 4 6. ~ 6, 3 6.2

l9e.5
8. 4 8, 3 8. 3 8.2

220.5

o. 4
0, 4 o. 3 0.3

441.0

o. 9
0. !l 0. 6 0.5

661.5
1. 3 I. 2 I. 0 0.8'

1102. r;

06

39

l.? ]. ;3
1.0

I. 8

2.2
1. 9 l. fl l. 3
1101. 0

j.1, 6\)

411

2.31 1. 9:1 Ui5
1:1:.!l. 17

!/ 1,
i1
~i

7 8
fl

216. ()
2Ul.9

7
8

.o
.0

...,
;...
l;rj

277.8
30B. 6 Hl7. :J
!)J:,, !) l'!:H, (i
I

9
10
15 20 25
31)

.o
.0

,()

...,
00

10
~

11

41 42
43

44

45
45

164. 1 4.1 4. O 4. 0 4.0
153. 9 3,!)
~.8

I7G. 2 u. I 6. I 6. 0 6. o r
11:;. 9 5.9 (),8 5. ti
~7

I

198. 2 8. l 8. l 8. 0 7. 9
197. o 7.8 7.8 7. 7
~7

2W. 2 0, I 0, 1 o. 0 219.9
219. 9 9.8 9.B 0. 7

4 W, 4 0, :J 0. l 0. 0 39. 9
439, 8 9.6 9.5 9. 4

6GIJ. (i (I. 4 O. 'l 0. () MU3
63\J. G 9.5 !l.3 o. I

1

88'). 8 O. 5 o. 3 IJ. 0 7!Ul
879. 5 ll.3 9.0 !Ul

0.7

o.o

o. :)

lOflfJ. 7
109!). 4

n. 41 fJ, Ot rn. (i6

0.79 I.
I'
f1

:m

40

.0 .1 иI

13.5 3!l. ~
51. (J

50

LiH.2
J,'3iJJ. 8

.2
и3 и4

84.4 W.6
111;;. 5
2rn. 2

c 0 :..>-3

1,f.l

l' (IO
2 3

:m1:i.1
r.~}ss.

35 40
4~

q

00

46

41

9. l fl. 8

50

IV

-0; 8
~7

8.4
H.1
1097. 8

131!1. 28 I'. 90 fl. f>2 8. 14

r;

. ()

27:3.6

~

4 5
6

7:1117.::

H25H.l
11111.0

50 &'1

и9 I. 1

:ni.8
4\kl. 7

< l;rj ><
i-;

R6
219. 6
~5

a2
43'J I
~o

8.9

8.5
878. 3
~O

1.rn

ii
1317.:\8
7.0U 6. 62

61 62
5<I 64 56

153. 7

175. 7
~6

197. 6
~5

LO
3. 6

6~8. 7 ~5

5. 5
~"

7. 5
~4

9. 4

8, 9

8. 3

7. 7
~&

3.5

R6

&.4
175. 4 5. 3 5.3 5.2

7.4 197. 3 7. 3 7.2 7.1

IU 219. 2 9. 2 9.1 9.1

a4

as

8.ll

at

7.9

7.2 . 1

7.5 7.2 6.9 6.5
imJ1;. 2 ;,, 9

Ji
11

ii

7

8
9 10

l 2'.ll)~. R 14"t4. Ii
J!i,)fj(),fi

1░00 I J()
I 20 1 3lJ l 40

J.5 2. 4
:l,'i

18:)18. 3

6. 21
G. 00
1:w;. 48

Ii
\[
11
1

:: 11
12

211:m1.1

2'l'?22. 0

1 r,() 2 00

5. I 6. !I !l. 2

48(\. 4 61i:?. () R!H. 7 lO[l-1. 4
I:!;-,I. I

p:

0

....
00
i:,..

1631. 8
llJi5. (;

]],()

"'

G6 57
08
69 fro

.......,~.~----~:~-~---- 7. J

153. 5 3. 4 3.4 3.3

9~0------~~------~~---~-:~ -----~~~-------3~ 96

438. 5 8, 4 8.2 8.1

6">7. 7 7J> 7.'I 7.2

877. 0 6, 7 1 I 6.5 1 6.2

l

r;.10

I
w "''

5. 6
5,3

4. 72
4,31

~

Ii

..... "'

TABLE VI.-Prcdtction TaMes-Contiuue<l.
L.1.T1TuvE

..... c.,-.
;i...

4,,0 ()(Y.

*
иr-~;;-1 1
i
1313. 96

Min.
7tt

Length ill metres of a1иcs of the p11ralld, (arc par.) ....____ --- и--------,----

8"''
1----- I

H''

10"
~----и

20''

I

I j
1 i I

l

3011

40"

i

и;'░,;
109;,,

II
Me11,Uona1 ares.

II
I

Coиonlinattis

~f cnrrntnrc.
.
i

11 .. -

1 2 3

er

15;l.3

:t 2

1;:;. 2 ;;, 1
"и 0 1 ;;, 5.0

!!Ji. I

219. ()
t'.ll

-

i.O
7.0
{i,

. !\

3. 2 3. 2
3. I 3. l

9

4.9
174. 9 4. 8 4.8 4. 7

6.9
\i.8

8.9 8.8 8. 7 8.7

4:J8.0 1. 9 1. 1
7. 6 7.5

657.

-------L---1-l--J o o и o I I
Q,

I
I" 2
~

Minutes of X. . lung-itudP. Arc par.

Y.

I
.1
1. 2
2. 2

~~

Bi6.

I
I

6

?и ~ . !
'1, <J

6. 1

7.3
4;17, 2 7. 1 ! 7. () I

Ii. 2
(5, (J

5. 2 5. 0
(

1, 3 I 4. o I 3. 7 i
3. 4 I

4. 6

?и 57 I ,l, 19
2. 1J1 2. 43

I

I

S(l, 9 61. 7

1--и~1и J' -, ()
I

4

92.6 123.5

2 :l
4

.0 .0
.o

I
I

.5

::0 trJ
'1;j

0
~

7

2. <15

5

6

133.0

]!JG. ,3
!i. 7 6.G 6.6

7 8 9 10
It 12

3.0
2.9
~.9

wи. 6
f'.5 8.5
BA 8. 4

6
655.8

5.6

814.4
i

j(J.)3. l

1311. 67
I. 29 0. 9U

2.9
15~.8

4.7 174.6 4.6
4.5 4. 5
4. 4

., ' u.;)
6.4

G.8
6. 7

5.4 rии 3 ii. 1

:uJ a. 1
813.2
2.fl

4. 2
i
i

2.7
2.4 2. l 1. 8
JODI. 5 l. 1 0.8
0. 5

7 tl

154.3 185.2 211i. I

5
6

.o .o
.0

3.4

246.9
277."
308.7 617, 3
9~(i, I)

7

8
Ii
10

.0
,0
и0 и0 и1 .l

i
I

4. 9 (i.ti

J-3 0
>:j

8.6
IO. 9

9
IO
21) 311

J-3

0.52
0.14
l30fl, 76

::i::
tr1
l)'l

3. 4

t:l. 5
30. 4

15

2.8

196. 5
Ci.3

218. 3

436.6

8.2
8,2 8.1
8,0

13 14 15

2.7

<J. 7

6.5 6.3
6. \! 6.1

6.3
G.2

2.6 152.6
2.5 2.5

604. 9 4. 7 i 4. 5 4.3
4.1
653.9

9.38

4U
50

1234,7

2.7
2.4
2.2

8. 99
8.61
l:l.23

1543.3
1s:;2, 0

20 25
30

54. [) 8~. 5
121. 6
)()5. 5

C'1
"d trJ

.2
и3
.4 .6

0.2
1089. fl 9.5 9. 2

l' Of1

1'1

Ul

18

19 20

21 2'l

I

2.4 2.4
152.' 2. 3

174.4 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2

100. 2
6, l

218.0

436.0

6.1 6.0 5.9

7.9
7.8

5.8
5.7 5.6
5. 4

Bil.9
]. 6 J. 4 1. 1

3. 7
3.5

1307.\85 7.46 7.08
6. 70

2 3 4
fi

3704.0 5556.0
7408. ()
9261'. () 11111.9 12963.9

35 40

45
50 55

.9
1. 2

216.2 273.7 337.8

... trJ
tj

... z
z

~

7.8
7.7
217.6
1и

3. 3
3. 2
fl[,J, 0

0.9
870.6

8.9
8.6
1088. 3

6 7 8
9 lfl

4oe.s

6.31 1305. 93 5. 54

1░ UO
14815. fl

m. 1

23 24 ll5
26

2. 3 2. 2 2.ll
152. I 2. 1

4. 1 4. 0 4. 0 :J.9

I

196. g 5. 8

435.3

5. 8 5. 7 5.7

7.6 7.5 7.5
7.4
217.3

5.2
5. I
4. 9

2.8
2.6 2. 4 2.2

0.4
0.1

869.9
!).6

4. 8

8.0 7.6 7.3 7.0
108<i. 7

Hi6\i7. \)
18519. 9 20371. 9 2~;.'23. 9

5.16
4.78 4. 40 1304. OJ 3.63
3.2:>

11

12

1 1 l 1 I 2

10 20 30
41)

J.5 l!.4

486.4 662.2
864. 8

z

trJ

...

3.6
5. l

50 00

6.9 9.3
ll. 9

1094.6 1;151, 3 1635.1 1945. 9

9f1 28 19

113. 9 3. ts

so

2.0 2. 0 2.0

3.8 3. 7 3.7

I

I

196. 6 I 5. 5 !

434.7

5.5 I 5. 4 5.4

I'

7.3 7.1

7.2 7.1

4.5 4.4
4.3

652.fl l. 8
]. 6

4.2

---'---~--------1

1. 4 1. 2

i I

009. 3 9. l 8.8 8.6
8. 3

6.4
6.0 5.7 5.4

2.86 2.48
---и
и~-------и------~-

---

.~------------~-------

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
L.1.TI1UDE

45░ 30".

------ .... -T --и-- -- --Length in metres of arcs of the parallel, (are par.)
Ji

Co-ordinates of curvature.
--- -- -

llin.

---~-~--~-

,

___
7n
lt>2.0
1. 9 l. 9 1.8

8';
,

9-';

mu
217.1 7.0 7.0 6.9
6.8 6.8
216.7

20''

3{V'

I I

i

-------!____ ________..
40'' 50"'

I

Meri<lional arcs.

11

r -ии-и.
Y.

6!Y'

и~

17

31

32
33
~

!i4

1.7
liH. 7
1.6 1.6 J.6
17

J.8

195. 4 5.3 5. :J 5.2 5.1 5.1

34.2 4. 0 3.9 3. 8 ;J.6 3.. 5
33.4 3.:l

051. 2 I. 0

o.9 I
o. 7 o.5 o. 3
1

11~и
I
(i.

r
_II
311.9 1
1

I Minutes of/

0

X. longitude. Arc par.

----- ---- -- ,
3 108i>.4 5.1
4.8

1-.tl и0
.0

...,
~ t'l

"1

8. 1
1~s

]302.48 2. 09
1.71

l")

]'

2 .
3

I

7.o
&'>6. 8
5 6. 3

7.5 7.3

4. 4
4. 1

o. 94

l. 32

4

i .

6L7
1r2. 6

123. 5

!1
11

11

2

4
5

a

.o

.1 .5 i. 2 2. 2
3. 4

c::: z ..... ...,
l:j и

3, 8

0. G5 ]:100.17 129!). 71' fl. 3H 0. OJ E>.G3

r.
6 7
8 H

i
41 42

195.0 5.0 4.9
4.8

6.6 6,6

4.9

6.5
6.4
216.4 6,3

3.1 3.0
2.9

650. 1 49. B 9. 7

40.

1.5
151.5 1.4 1.4
1. 3

I ' 9.5 I 9, a
I

108:1, 5

:u

V. 8
Sflfi.5

u. o

2.fj 2.5

154. a !I J8fi.2 "и 2W.1 247.0 i 277. 8
I

'I

иo

t:;I

"

6 i
.~

.o

и0

4.9 6.6
8.tl IO. !l

en
1-3
~

2.2
1081.9 I. 6 1. 2 O.!J

lfl !Iii

308. 7

i

9
10

.ll .IJ

17

194. 7

4.7
4.6 4. 6 4.5

43

6.2
6.2
6. I

:lZ. 7 2.6

649.1

129f'.24

2.5
2.4 2. и~
:12.1 2.0 1. 8 l. 7 1. ()
31. r,

8.9 1'. 7

:io
50

44 45

RG

I. 3

8.2

fdl 5.0 4.7 4. r,

1.86
7.47
7.H\J

40

617.4 lj !l:W. I 12:14. H i lf>43.;, !;
I

!I

.o
.0 .I .I .2

13.5
30. 4

r:n
C':l 0
~ 00

1-3 t'l

15
20
~

311
'.V. 40

54.0 84.4 121. 6
16G.5 21f>. 2

0.6
1080. 2 tonи.9 , 9.G R:l

G. 70

41

~6

161.2
1.2 1.1 1.1
1. 1

17

194.4
4.4 4. 3
4. :l

21G. l
6.0

648.2
8.11

I' ()() 2

81H.2

Ml

40
50

5.9 5.9
IJ.8

7.8
7. li

:i. 7
3.4
i

4.0

I
I

l2'JG. 31 5. 93
fl. 54

a

1852. 2 i,1; 37(14. a \;
5&i>0.5 74nt<. G

.\

1-3

.:l
.i .li .!l 1 ,,

r:n
~ ~

4 5
G

II
i11'
иI

4;,
511

273.6
:337.8

-<!

4.2
17:

i.4 647.l!
7. 0

:J.2

u.o

''и Jf5 4. i7

92C0.8 I~ 1 ll J:l. (J
129{1!\ 1 141'17. 3

f>5
JO()()

408.7
486. 4 6(i:/. l

M

--c
~
CJ>

51

52
55 56
57
58

151,0 I. 0

194.2 4.1
4. 0

215.7

r). 1

]. 3

l)3

0.9
(),9

54

ll.8
150.8

4.0 3.9
172 193. 9 3.11 3.8 :J.7

5.6 5.5 IJ. 5
2lfi. 4

l. 2 1. I
(),()

6.tl
(;, {j

6. 4

002. !) 2.7 2.4 :.!. l I. 9
81JL 6
(\,

1078, 7 8. 3

r<.o
7. :1

7.7
1077. 0 fl. 7

J2!l4. :l8 4.00 :t61 a. 22 2.t':I

7 8 9
10

I
l

JO

l&i6fl, 4
1Hf121. 5

I'Ii
I'
11

20
(\II ()()

1 :111 1 41)
l

:u; rи. 1
7. I !I. 3 12. I

1. :, 2.4

":I 0

864, 7
1094. 5 l:Jf>I. l JflJ.'1. II
]lJ4[1.

II 12

211:17;!, 7
22~~~rl.

1!
'I

r:1

2

7

w ""

o. 7

.

59
60

0.7 0.6

0.6

I
I

3.6

5.3 5.3 5. 5. 2 l

I

:JO. 8
0. 7

i
j'

641i. 2

I

\: 12\lZ. 4;,
2. IJ(i

I

o.:.i

0.G o. 4

:;, 8
f>.(j

6. 0

I

I. I 9
-- ....,.,,, ___ _

I. 4

r.. .:.

o.6

6. 4 6.1 5.8

1. 67 I. \W o. 90
--и----и ии--

----

;
'"-~

..... *
-C1 Cl

----------------ии--------~

TABLE YL-Prcyectian Taoles-Cont'nucd.
J,AT ITUDE

..... 01
C1')

4G0 O(Y.

----.
Iliad

-------и--~------~

-------------- - - - - - -

Length in me tree of arcs of the parallel, (arc p11r.)

7n

I

I

13'1

IY"

!
I
!

JOI'

21Y

1

30'

1

I
I

'

----

ии-и-и----ии-иII

40"

50//

60"

MeridlooO

,,~ииии11 ~~1:~:,=rr~~:
3(1, 9 61.7
9-2. 6

..
.1 .5

*

150. 6

11
G '7 8.

0. 6

,

0.5 o. 5 0. 4
0. 4

172. I 2. l 2.0 . 2. o 1. 9
J. 9

193. 6 3. 6 3.5 I 3. " 3. 4
3. 3

I

215. l 5. l 5.o 5. o 4. 9
4. 8

430. 3

o.o 29. 9 !!, B
!J. 7

o. 2

~645. 5 860. 6 5. 3 I o. 3
r..1 . 4. 9 , 4. 7 1
4. 5 I

I _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ ,!.
lll7G. 8
12\JO. 90

0.1 85!>. 8 o. 6
9. 3
8;Jtl. 0

5.4
5.1
4. 8

o. r,1

1,,
3

2 '
4
5 6
7

I

.... - - - - i - - - 11 2
3
,. -.

0.12
8(), 7;3

4.G
4.1

9.35

123. 5

4
6

I .o
I
.I! .fl

I

.o
.o

0 ,()

l:d
tt1
"d 0
):1j ..;i

]. 2 2. :t

8.96
128?,r\7 F!.18

15t ~
JH:i. 2

5 \
7 8

3.4
4.9

160.3

0.3
0.2

171.8 ), 8 1. 7
. 1. 6
171.6 l. 5

193. 3

214.8

9
JO

0.2
0.2
150.1

), 7

~~
3.1 3. l

I .

i

4.7 4.6 4.6
4.5

429.5 0.4
9,3 !U 9.0

6t4.3

4.1
3.9

3. 7 3.5
643. 3 3.1 2.9 2.7

8.8 F!. 5 R.3
8. 0

1073. 8 3.5 3.2

216. l

7.79
7. 41

2.R 2.5
1072. 2
J. 9

8 9
10

247.0
277.l'l

9
IO
1!)

.0
.0

.o

6.6 8.G 10.9

0 >".!

>-3
~

tt1

7.02
12~6.

308. 7
(iii. 4

и0

1$. 14
ll

Ji.-'

u

149. 9

o.o o.o

0.1

193.0
2.lJ

214.4

l. 4
), 4

2.9
2.8 2.8
192.7 2.6

4.4
4. 3

4.2
4. 2
Jl4.1 4.0

1.3
171. 3 1.2 l.2
I. l

428.9 8.7 8. {j fl.5 8.4

I

l

857.B
7. 5

20
63 6.24

30
41)
()I)

026.2
J2:l4. 0

21)
2."i 31)

.1
.I

13.5 311.4 54.0 84.4
121.6

l1l

cj
>'j

7.2 7.0
6.7

]. 5
]

2.5 642.3 2.1
1.9
1.8

0. ll

....
~

5.H:)

ir;1:1.6
Jtl'l;!, 3 3704. 6

.2
.3
и5

t1'J

r,,46 5. 07
1284. GB 4. 2\}
3.UO

.....
~

):1j

JI 00
2

35

:fl r.иl
21 2:1
i

Jf' It'. lf.

149.9 9.'B
9.l!J

428.2
8.1 8.0

9.1 9. 'r 149. 7

1.1
171.0 1.0

2.6 2.5 2.5
1!12. 4 2.4 2.3 2.2

4.0
3.9 3. 9

856.5 6.2 5.9
5. 7

1070. G

0.2 69.9
RG 9. ;3

7.8 7.7

:i. ri1
3. 12

3 4 5
G

5556,9 7409. 3 1n61,6
11113. 9

40 45
50

55

.6 .9 l. 2

ll>f'>.4 216.1 273.5
3:.l7.6

z
tt1

408.5 486. 2

1:1
tt1

z

1.6

5.4
855.2 4.9 4.6 4. 4 4.1
853.9 3.6 :l.3 3.1

JO 00
7 8
!l 10 11

i

.. и
'5

ии

23

IU 9.5
! 149.4 9.4 9. 3 9.3

9.t

9.6

213.B
3. 7 3. 7 3.6

42'7.6
7.4 7.3 7.2
7.1

641. 4
J. 2
]. ()

1068. 9
8.6 8. 3

0.9 0.9 0.8
17fl.8 0.7

2.2
19-2.1 2. l 2.0 1.9
I. 9

3.5

0.8 0.6

8.0 7.7
1067. 3 7.0
6. 7 6.3

121'2. 73 >1. :34 ]. 95 J,56
1.17

12961>. 2 14818.5
lfl670. 8

12

18523. l 20375. 5 222иl7. 8

1 :m 1 40 1 50 2 00

l 10 1 20

1. 5 2.4 3.6
5. 2

661.B 864.4
6

z ..;i

J094.0
13~J(),

7. 1

0.4 12. 2

J634.2
.1944. 9

18 tit

0.7
0.6 0.6

и

9.2

I

213. 5 3.4 S.3
3.3

426.9

640.4
0.2
11.0 31J.8 9.6

6.8
6.7

128(). 78 0.39
(). 00 79.61 1279. 22

3.2

6.5 6.4

I

2.8

6.0

__ I ----и-------

TABLE VI.-Projectian Tables-Continued.
L.!.Tnvnx 46░-30'.
~-

----.. .

-----<~-

--

----

Length in met ree of arcs of the parallel, (arc par.)

lj
50"

Co-ordinates of cuna.ture,

i-------..и----- ----..-----"----Illa 9" 7" 6" 10"

20"

3()"

i
i

I

4(Y'

.
3Jf

----1--14SU 9.2 lil.2 9.1

i _ _ :j
6W' .
1279. 2\! 8. 83 ,\ .

Meridional arcs.
I

: longitude. Arc

Minut:s~fl ~. l' 2 :l
4

I J;lnr,

0

Y.

..,
~
t!j

l<j

- r-------11--

170.6
0.5 0.5

191.9
1.8 ]. 8

at

213.2 3.1
3. I 3.0

426.4 6.3
6.1 6.0

639.6
9, 4

I

=
31)

:H

sn

~.o

0.4 0.4 0.3
170.2 0.2

}. 7 J.6
1.6

9.2
9.0 8.8 8.6
6:~8.4

2.9 2.9
212.8 2. 7

852.B 2.6 2.3 2.0
], 8

1\\66. 0

,., i
2 :1
4
.,

5. 7
5.4

R,84
\;, 05

5.0

5.9 ri.8 425.6 5.5 5.4

4.7

7.H6
7. ~l7
12ili.87 6. 4>3

l
I
I

I [

61. 7 I 9'2. 6 II
12:l,
[1
11

3fl, 9

11

-.0
.0 .0 .0

и1

.5
). 2

~ ~

2.2
3.4

.... ..,
t!j

]. 5
851. 2
I.fl
(I

4.4
1064. I
~l.

I
4(1

6

i

1

154. 4 isr,.2
21ti. 1

H9.0 B.,9

191.5
1.5

I' I
;:
I,

,,
1 8 9

6

.o

.0
,0 ,0
fl

t:1
IJl

4.9

8.9
8;8

0.1
ll.1 0.0

41
49

j

IU
8.7

' 148. 7

43

.44

8.6
8.6
; . 148.5 8.r. 8.4
8.4

B.6

170.0 69.!J
9,9 (). 8

191. 2

.

1.4 1.4 l. 3
]. 2 1. 1
1. I 1.0

2.7
2.6 2.6

R.2

7

r..2
::i. I

8. 0

7.8 7.7
637.5

(l.

и'5
o

~

3.4
:1. l

6.09
fi.70

1 8 9

247. 0 277. 9
:JO!", 7

I:

e.6
JO. 9

6. 6

.0
,0 .0

.., .., "" t"l
00 00

0.:.1
~~o.

2.8
1062.4
2.1 1. 8
].5 1. 1

5.31

JO
2\l

212.5 2.4 2.4
2. 3

42r,. 0

4.8 4.7
4.6 иl.4
421.3

7. 3
7. I 6.9 ti. 7

4!). 7
!1,4

127t 91 4. r.\l

:111

617.5 !J\!fi. 2

JO 15

13.5 :-10.1

(')

20
25
35
40

40
!)0

J:.!:ir.. o
Jr,4'.l, 7
]~52.5

4. t:l
:1, 74 3. 3,-, l\!72 9;;

ao

.l .l

G4. 0

84.3
121.;;
lfl5. 3

0 l>->cl
IJl

.2
.3
.5

il. 2

'6
*I

9.8
J69.7 9. 7

2. 2
212. 2 2.1 2. 0
2.ll

╗.9
f'4'3.6

t7
48

49
50

8.3

9.6 9.6 9.5
l6'J. 5

190.9 0.9
0,8 0.8 0.7

6:11>.fi
I). I

4.2
4. I

,;,3
f1. 9 f... 7

R.4
8. l 7. !)

3. \)

1. 9 211. 8 I. 8 1. 7 1. 6 1. 6

3.8
4<!:1. 7

7.6
847. 3
7. I
c 6 и"

H1ti0.8 0.5 11. I 1059. 8 H.G

2.5U
2. 17

a
4
ij

l' 00 2

:J70&, 0 ri;,01.1 741>!1_ ti !l~G~ . .i

i\

Ii n
1, !~
\\

4') fill 5:>

.6 и9 ], 2
], f,

21r.. 9 273.3
3:17. 4 4t:t;, 3
-l-~>.9

q

P:l
<l t"l >1 ":: 0
~

1. 77

6
7
8
~)

ll!M, l1 J';l9(\7. 4 14t'f'l_ tl ](l(j7:?. 3

t:

l. :1ri
12711. 9U

JO
1 I l ]
]

0()

51 52

148.3

54

Ga
16

8.2 8.2
8.1 8.1
148.1

9.4

190.6 0.6

56

9.4 9.3 9.3 169.2 9.2 9.1 9.1 9.0

0.5
IJ.5

0.4

:l.5 :1.4 :1. 3 3. l

635. r,
f>. :l fl. 1

100!1.2
f<.8 t<.5

o. (i0

6.8

0, 2fl

JO

Jtl;i2-L 8
!lli;{77, :i
~Wl~\l,

4. ll

4.7 634.5

6.3
846. 0 5. 7

8.2 7.9
1057. 5
7. "1

6:и.81
9. 4:.l

11 12

7

l
~ ~
11

}!}

2, 4

titil. 3

l!IJ

:u;
ii.2 7, 1

30 40
!)()

863. 7 10na. 2 .... 00
1:1111. 6 Hi:l:l. l
l!U:l.4
(11

9.:;
12, 3

i!

0-0

"'

51

58 59

00

8.0 7.9 7.9

e.o

190.4 0.3 0.2
0.2 0.1
--

21u;
1. 4 1. 4

423. 0

rnm.02
8.63
8. 23 7,84 7.45

1. 3

2.9 2.8 2.6

1. 2

2.5

!:r 3.9
3. 7

5.5
1и

r>. 2

u. r)

6.9

5.0

6.2

-----~--------и

I

J_

.... *
~-.

""'

TABLE VI.-Pndectioti Tubles-Continued.
WTITtDE 470

.......
01

00

OlY.

*

Length in
)fi; ~.

metre~

of arcs of the panllel, (arc par.)
-;-и-

-~-~---.-

1''

aии
169.0 9.0 8. 9 8.8 8.8 8.7

9"

IO"

20rf

30"

' I

40"

50"

:- - --и--11
\' 60"
1

----и---------n--------- ------------ ii11 11

--curvat1111e.
r

!I

!I c&ord'mates of
,! Minutes of
11

Ueddianal arcs.

~

- ---147.9

---190. 1 0.0 0.0 189.9 9.9 9.B

-42'1. 5

2l1. 2

--6;.; 3.5 3. 3
2, 9 2.7
3 .. l

--~5.0
4.7 4. 4
3. 9 3.7
4. 2

--1056.2 5.9 5. 5 5. 2 4. 9 4.6
1054. 2 3. 9

l~i.45 :,1-~---~~T--~~!--1-, ~I

I

I
I I i

7.8 7.8

], 2

7.7 7.6 147.6 7.5
7.5 7.4

7.7

1. l 1. 0 1. 0 o. 9
210. B 0.8 (), 7 0.6 0. 6

2.3 2.2
2. 1

2.0
1. 8

I

l
j

r

7.5

'I
I
I I l
i
j

168.7 8.6 8.6 8.5 8.5
Hi8.4 8.4 8.3 8.3

189.8 9.7 9.6 и 9.6 9.5 189.5 9.4 9.3 9.3

421. 7
J. 6 J,4 1.3 l. 2

632. ;, 2. 3 2.1 1.9 J.i
631.5
l. 4 1. 2 1. 0

I

843. 4 3. 1 2.!J 2.6 2.3
84Q. 1 1. 8 ]. 5 l. 3 I. 0

3.2 2.!J

:u,..

I

147.4

7.3

1.2
7.2

7.3

2rn. 5 0. 4 0.4
(1,3

421. 0 0.9 0.8
11,6 0.5
42~.4

1052. 6 2. 3

!11 12Gf>. 08 i) 4. 68 . 4.29 1 3.69 ', 3.50 11 : 1263. IO 11и 2. 71

7.05 I Ii. 6u i: 6. 26 1 5. t;'] 1 5.47 1

1

!

I

i!

X. , longitude. Are par.

Y.

21
3
4
I

lil.B 9'1. 6 123. 5

I

I

.1
.5 J, 2

~

2 3
4

.0 .o .0

t'tJ
"ti

иo

2.2 3.4
6.fl

5
6 7

'I

'.
1

иI

8 9 JO 20 30 40
f.>ll

154.4 Mi.:l I 216. I I.! 247. o 11 277.9 :! 308.B 617.5 926. 3 1235. I 1543. 9 1862. 6
:l70!i. 3
!1

I i

l?:i ..,
0 "'1
~

0

5
6 7

s

9
JO 15 20 2:;
30

8.2

9.2
189.2 9. l 9.0 9,0

u. 3
210.2 0.1 0.1 (t,O

0.8
lhlO. 6

I.ti I. :i

I. y

2. 31 I. 92

'I

I ,
I

I

.o .0 .o .o I .o I
.0 и1 иl
и2

4.9

e.6
JO. 9

..,
t>i
"ti
l'tj

]:J.5
30. 3 53.9 84. 3 121. 3
16~.9

00.

c:1
l?:i

и

]. 52

I

'I
I

'
l

141. l 7.1
f.O

6.9

r.o

168.2 8.1 8.0 8.0
7.9

U.2
0, l

0.4 0.2
0.0 29.8

840. 8 0.5

8.9
188.9

209.9
209.9 9.8 9. 7 9. 7 9.6 209.5' \1.5 9.4

fl,0 419.9

o.o
39.7

0.2

1050. 9 0.6 o. 3 49 !l 9. 6 1049.3 9.0
R.3

1261. rn 0,73 o. :l3 I G9. 94 !' 9.54 !
12cи9. 15
~.75

1' OU 2
:i

35
40

.3
.5

z ..,,

I-<

4
ri

0
7

i

5557. 9 7410,6 9'.m:i. 2 1111&. 9
12968. 5

45 50 55
JO 00 1 10
I 20

.1 .9 l. 2
1.5

2n.o
337.0
407.8 485.3
fl60.6 8li2.8 11lrl.0
134!".2 16:ll. 4 1941. 4

215.7

z

t"ll
t;;J

z 1-:)

trj

146.9
6.9

I

I
I i

6.8
6.8

167.9 7.8 7.8

6.7

7.7 7.7
167.6 7.6 7.5

8.B 8.8
8.7

419. 7

629.6
9.4

839. 4
9.2

I

9.6
9.4 9.3 9.2
419. 1 8,9 I 8.8 i

I

8.6
188.6

9.2 9.0
f;,8

8.9
8.6 8.4

e. 1

8 9

!

'

2 .. fi

14821. l Hi6n s

;u

e.35
7. 9Бi

II

8.0
1047.6 7.3

7.56
12m; rn 6.77 6.37 5.97 и5.57

10 11 12

J652fi.4
. 203ifl. 0
~31.7

I l l 2

30 40 50
(JO

5.2 7.2
9.5 12. 4

I

' I
I I

146.7 6.6

6.6
6. 5 6.li

8.5

7.5 7.4

e.5

621".6 8.4

8""8. 1
7. 8

8.4
8.3

9.3 9.3

8. 7 8.5

I

e.2

8.0

7.6 7.3
7.0

7.0
6.7

7.8

6.3

TABLE VI.-Prqjection Tables-Continued.
LATITUDE 470
---~-----и----

30'.

Length in metres of 11ru of

too pal'llllel, ( aro ~ par.)

Hin.

I

------,9"

11 ...

7"

8''

I

10

20"

30"

-30'
31 32

146.5
6.4

167.4
7.4

34
35
36 31

33

6.4 6.3 6.3 6.3
146.2 6.2
6.1

7.3
7.3 7.2 7.1
167. l 7.0

188.3 8. 3 8.2 8 ,,
fl. l

209.3 9.2
9.1 9. 1 9.0 8.:1

418.5
8.4 8.1

~
7.6 7.4 7.2 7.0

I ! ----1
lY'
I

I

Meridional arcs.

"~"'"'":''_
]' 2
3

"'""'""и

50"

60''
II

e.s

i I

837. 0 . 6.8

1046. 3 6. 0
ii.6

I2!iG.57
5. 18 4. 78 4.38

~~и и1
3 4

30. 9 61. 8
!l:l.6

J {~~иr~'I L
I:
11

Lmnutesofl ilongitude. ArcX. par.
II
q

0

Y.

..,
~
t_:l:j

~

-.0

6.5
6.3

8.0
7.9

8.0
188. 0

6.0
5.7
~.5

6.8
ll'W.6

5.3 5.0 4.7
1044. 3' 4. \)

123.5 185.3

4 ,

I

3.98 3. 59
1253. 19

.o .ll иo

.l .5
l. \l

z ,..
..; M

c

:l.2

5
6

154.4 ij
216. 2

5
G

.o
.0 .0 .0 .0

3.4

t:J
~

208, 9

417. 7
7.6 7.5

38 39 40
41

7,0
ti. 9

6.1
6.0

7.9 ?'.9 7.8
7.7 187. 7

6.9
166. 8

8.8 8.7 8.7 8.6 208.5 8.5 8.4 8. :J 8.3

7
8 9
10

7
8

4.8
(Ui 8.6

7.3 7.2 417.]
6.9 6,8
ti. 7

6.4 r.2 6.0 5.8
625.6

5.2
4. !J

3.7

4.7 4.4
f'34. I

3.4
3.0
10~2.7

2.70 2.39 l. 99
I. 59

247.0
Z77.9

308.8
617. 6 926.4 12:.l~. 2

II II

9
JO
}[)

10. !}
l~.5

>..,
M
UJ
<'.'.:!

...;

4t 43
44

H<l.O 6.9
5.9 5.8

12fil. 20
0. 80

20
:llJ 40

i

.o

45
46

5.8

6,8 6.7 6,7 6.6
166.6 6.5 6.5

7.6 7.6 7.5 7.4 187.4 7.3 7,3

5.4
5.2

3.9
3,6 :l.3 3. I 832.8

6.5

5.0 4.8
624. 6

2.3 2.0 ]. 7
]. 3

lj
иI
1'

o. 40 o. 00

50 l' 00
2 3

IM4.0 )1
J8ri2. 8 370;,, 6
!);)5~.

20 25 30

.JI .и .1
.2

.0

30.3
53. !l
~.2

121. 2

> UJ ...,
00

0

49.60 1249.20
f'.80 8. 40 8. 00 7. 60

Ii

.,.
49
50

145. 7 6.7
[,,. (j

208.2
8.1 8. l

416. 4
t:.::i 6.1 6.0 5.9

I
1 и

~ 41)
4;,

.3
.G

1114. !}
\!IC.. 4 '212.6

CJ
l:t

1041. 0
0.7 0.3 0. () 3!l. 7 lll39. 4 !J. 0 8. 7 8.3
'1.0

4

41':1

5.-0
5.6

6.4
6.3 166.3 6.2
6.2

7.2
7.1
187. l 7.0

8.0 7.9 207.9 7.8 7.7 7.7
7.6 207.5 ?'.5 7.4 ?'. 3 7.3

4.4 4.2 4.0 3.8
623.6 3.4 3.2

2.5
2.3

2.0
1.7
831. r, 1.2

4 5 6
7 8 9 10 JI 12

7411. 2 92G4.0
Jlll6. 8

I I
I

.7

,.,
JO 011
l 1

!)11

.9
]. 2

:136.6 401.a
41'1. 7
(iC>9. 7 Hl)J. 7

-< I>: ..-,
'>J 0
~
00
Cl

J.6
2.!'l :L 7 ri. 3

51 52
54 55

145.5 . 5.5
&.4 &.4

93

5. 3
145. 3
5.~

6.1 6.. 1
166.0 6.0

I
I

415. 7 5.6

1.0
6.9 6.8

r,,. 5

0.9

5.3
5.2

I

:1. 0 2.8

o. 7

0. 4 8'30. 1 2'J. 9

1247. 21 c. 81 6. 41 H. 01 5. 61

h!9fifl.6 1482\.'. 4 Hl675. 2 .;

I
l l
I:
1 f

1
1

:m
4f)

Ill 20
1

1H:J2P. 0
Qll38(), 8

'
i

7.2

2223:l. 6

2

1

r,u

(if/

12.5

!J.6

lO!JO, 5 134t1, 4 2 19:9'. 7

mw.

""

M
67
68

186.8

5.2

59
60

5.1 5.1

5.9 5.9 5.8

6.7 6. 7

llJ5.1 4.9

622.6

10:11. 7

1245. 21
4. 81 4.41

6.6
6.5

.

4.8
4. ?'

2.4 2.2
2.0

9.6 9.3
!J. 1

7.4 7.0
6. 7

-L

и

4.5

1. 8

6.3

4.01 3. 60

I

f-"
C,'"t

*

""

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
LATITUI)'&
~и---

,_.
O"l

0
4So 00'.
-и----иa~и---иии---------и-и-и

----и--ии -ии -ииии--ии--и----и-и
--и

-----и-и-------------

-.. - -

*

-~n

~--

-~и-~~-и~~~---~~~----

Loogth in metres cf area of tbe pa.railel, (aro par.)

,J

C-0-ordinates of curvature.

liln.

------- --- -- -------------. 7"
B" 9"

---

----- -- ---------и-------------------ии----20"

--

l!Y'

30"

40''

1

f)()''

--и
II' 1

'_:~:
I
1243. 60 3,21)
:~

"'"''"'"' ..... I
-----,
I"
2

I longitnd11.
I

Minutes cf

I -.
X.

I

Y.

Ara. par.

145. l 5.0
5.0
4.9

165.8

5.8
5.7 &.. 7 5.6
~.(>

186.5 6.G
6.4

!.?07. 3 7.2
7. l

414.5

621.8
1. 6

i
I

2 3
4

4.4 4.3
4. I

1.4
1 " I. 0

"'иI
i
8~7.5

8.8

8.5
El.:l

I

1036. 3
~ t>ии

6
6

4.9 4.9

6.4 6.3

7. 1 7.0

"

6.0
5.

I
I

30. 9
61.8
9~.6

l'
2

4.0
3. 9

6.2
186.2 6.1 6. 1 6.0

6.9

0.8 620.6
0.4

8.o 7,7
7.. 2
fi.9

I

2.80 I 2.40 i
2.00 1. 60

-.0 .0
и0

.l

~

3 4
5 fl 1 8 9

:1

.5
1. 2

M "ti

123.5
liH.4

4
Ii

Ii. 0

.o
.0 I
,(I

2.2
3.4

4.7

I
и1

::c ...,
"'l

0

W.8

165.o
5.4

7
8

9

4.7
4.6

4.8 4. 7

5.4
5. 3 5.3

10
JI

5.9
185. g

206. 9 6.B 6.1 6.1 6. 6
9\l6.5 6. 5 fH 6.3

413. 7 3.6
3.5 3.3 3. 2
41:t I

135.3

1034. :1

0. 2 0.0 19.8
619. 6 9.4

tl. 7

6.4
826. l

:u
3.0
10'.l~.

4. 0 3. 7

1211.20 U.80 0.40

216.2
247.1
\!77.9
!Ji)rl.

6 7
ll
(J

.o

4. B
{i. 6

0

3D.59
1239. 19
8. 7!)

o.oo

I

.0 .0

-и~-H

144.6 4.5

..

15

..... 4. 4
144.3

4.5

165.2 5.2 5.1
5.1

JO 2U
30

8

JI)

(Jl7. 7
~W).5

7

15
20 2:>
30 35

.o
.1
.l .2

,0

и

8.6 10. g
1:3. 4

...,
t::i

::!l
l7:l

30.2
5:l. 8 84. ()
l:!l. ()
164. 1

c:::
"ti
f'!j

5.8 5.8

5.0
165. 0 4. !)
4. !)

5.7 5.6
185.6 5.5

6.3
206.2 6. I 6.1

2.9 2.8 2.7 2.5
412. 4

5.9

2.3

9.2

5.6
5. 3

.to
50

9.0 8.8
618.6

2.0

5.1
824.8

l.Z

8. :19

1. 3 1031. 0

7.99 7. f,!)
1237. 18 6. 78 6. :is

12:15. 3 1544. I
1853.0 '1705.9

::J

16

l1

l~

4. 3 4.2
4.1!

2.3
2. I

8.4
8.2 8.0 7.8

5.5
5.4 5.3 185. 3

4.6 4.3
4.0 3.7

1' 00 2 3

r.r)i1"'. H
7411. 9 !l<JIJ4, 8 11117. 8 12970.7
1
]

0,G
0,3 o. 0

40 45
f10 55

.3 .5 .7

z
z

....
i-3 t:
l:rJ

19 00

4.2

4.8 4. 7

6.0
5.9

2.0
1. 9

29.6

5.97 5.57
1235. 17 4. 77 4.36
3.96

4 5 6
7 8

.9
J. 2

215.1 272.2 ;J;J6. 0 401!. u

JO 00
10

21
~

144.1
4.1

164. 7

.
i1
18

23 lU 26

4.0 4.0

4.6 4.6 4.5

5.2 5.2
5. l

205.9 5. B 5. 7 5.7

411. 7
l. t) l. 5 I. 3

617.6 7.4
7.2

823.4

3.2 2.9
2.6 2.4 822:1 1.8 1. 6

1029.3
9.0

I. 6 2.5

483.9
651'.l.6
8{il).

z

tr:l

i-3

14823.7
WG76. 7 185'29. 6 и203~2. 6 22235.6

20

9

416. 7
5. 3

3

8.6
8.3

10
11 12

3.9
143.9

4.5 161. 4 4.4 4.3 4.3
4.2

5.0

5.6
205.5
5.4

1.2
411. 0

7.0 6, 8
- 616. 6

1 30 1 41l ] 50
2 00

B. 0

3.56
1233. 15
2.75

7.3 9.7 12.6

1088. 7 13-14.2
1626.4 19:35.5

195.0
4.9
4.9

3.8
3.8 3.7 3. 7

5.5
5.3 5.:1

0.9
0.8 0.6 0.5

6.4

1027. 6

7.3
7.0 6.6 6.3

119

00

4.8
4.7

6.2 6.0 5.8

1;3
1.0

2.35
1. 94 1.54

TABLE YI.-:-Prcdection Tables-.-Continued.
LA'IlTllDi'4go 30'.

Length in metres of Brea of the p11111llel, (arc par.)

Co-ordinates of curvature. Meridional 11rce.
5(}''

Hin.

7"

6"

!Y'

1011

20''

30"

40'"

6(}''

.

0

-t:i .... 33 и 34

31 32

30'

143. 7
3.6
3.(i

35

3.5 3.5 3.4 143.4 3.4 3.3 3.3 3.2 U3.2 3.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 142.9 2.9 2.8 2.8 2.7 142. 7 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.5 142.5 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.3

164.2 4.2 4.1 4.0 4.0 3.9 163.9 3.8 3.8 3.7 3. 7 163.6 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.4 . 163. 3 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.1

184.7 4.7 4.6 4.5 4.5 4.4 184.4 4.3 4,2 4.2 4. I 184.1 4.0 3.9 3.9 3.e 183,8 3. 7 3.6 3.6 3.5 183.5 3.4 3.3 3.3 3.2. 183.2 3.1 3.0 3.0 2.9

205.3 5.2 5.1 5.1 5.0 4.9 204.9 4.8 4.7 4.6 4.6 204.5 4.4 4.4 4.3 4.2 204.2 4.1 4.0 4.0 3.9 203.8 3.8 3.7 3.6 3.6 203.5 3. 4 3.4 3.3 3.2

410.5 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.0 409.8 409.7 9.6 9.4 9.3 9.2 409. 0
8.9

615.8 5.6 5.2 5.0 4.8 614.6 4.4 4.2 4.0 3.7 613.5 3.3 3.1 2.9 2.7 612.5 2.3 2. l
I. 9

.

Minutes of x. longitude. Arc par.
l''

Y.

>oj

--821. 0 0.8
"o.5

1-3 i:q

t:i:I

r>. 4

0.2

o.o

619. 7 819.4 9.1 8.9 8.6 8.3 818. l 7. 8 7.5 7.3 7.0 816.7 6.4 6.2 5.9 5.6 815. 4
5. J

1026.3 5.9 5.6 5.2 ~- 9
4.6

1231. 54 ]. 14 0. 73 0.33 29.93 9.52 1229. 12
8. 71

JN

2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9

30.9 61. 8 92.7 123. 5 154.4 185. 3 216. 2 247. I 2i8.0 308.9 617.7 926.6 123.5. 4. 1544.3
1853. t 3706.2 5559.4 7412.5 ll2fl5.6 11118. 7

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 IO 15 20 25 30
35

-.0 .0

1

.o .o
.0

5

1. 2 2. 1
3. 4

z ....
t':l

e:l

..,
t:1
IF.>

36

37
38

39 40
41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 00

1024.3 3.9 3.6 3.3 2.9 1022. 6 2.2 J. 9 }. 6 1.2 1020.9 0.6 0.2
19.9

и0 .0 .0
.0
.I

.o. .o

4. 8 6. 6 8. 6
10. 9
13. 4

8. 31 7.90 7.50 1227. 09 6.69 6.28 5.88 5.47 1225.07 4.66 4.26 3.85 3.45 1223.04 2.63 2.23 1. 82 1.42 1221. 01 20.HO 20.19
JO. 79

!>-..,
J.>j

>-3

10

l'l.2
Q

8.8 8.6 8.5

20 30 40 50
l' 00

.1 .2 .3
.5

I

30. 2 53. 7 83. 8 120. 7
164. 3

0 II"
00

..,

l'l.2

408. 4 8.2 8.1
8.0

2 3
4 5

40
45

.7
.9 I. 2

50 55

214и 6 271. 7 335. 4 405. 8
483. 0

e:l
lrj

-<
t:i:I

6 7
8

><
l:i:j

7.8 407.7 7.5 7.4 7.3 7.1 407.0 6.9 6. 7 6.6 6.5

1. 7 611. 5 l. 3
I. l

9.5 1019.2 8.9 8.5 8.2 7.8 7.2 6.8 6.5 6.1

JO 00
I
10

51 52 53
1\4 65

I

163. l 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.9 162.8 2.7 2.7 2.6 2.6

9
JO

0.9 \).7 6J0.5 0.3
O. l.

4. 8 4.5 4.3 814. 0 3. 7. 3.5 3.2 2.9

56

.1017.5

12

11

12971. 9 14825.0 16678.1 18531. 2 20384.4 22237.5

1 20 1 30 I 40 I 50 2 00

1. 6 2.5 a. 8 5.3 7.3
[). 8

657. 4
858. 6

0

1086. 6
1:141. 5 1623. 2

FJ .....
(I)

12.6

1931. 8

w

"'

67
68 59 60

609.9 9.7

19.38

I-'

.....

~

*

TABLE VI.-Projection Tables-Continued.
ии Ln1Tum 49" O<Y.
Loogth in metres of Min. of the p~rall~I, (are par.)

......
O':I
~

*
Co-ordinates of curvature.
6()11

al'Cll

'
50'' Meridional arcs.

..
' 7'1
8''
9'.I

10''

20''

30'''

40!'

Minutes of x. longitude . Arc par.
1' 2 3
4

Y.

O'
1

m.3 2.1 . 2.1

2 ,3
4

2.2 2.2

162.6 2.5

182.9 2.8

2.5
2.4 2.4 2.3 162.3 2.2 2.1

2.8
2.7 2. 7

203.2 3и. 2 3.1 3. 0 3.0
2. 9

5
6 7
8

2.0
142.0 1.9
1. 9

и

2.6
182.5

.406.5 6.3 6.2 6.1 5.9 5.8 .405.6

609. 7 ' 9.5 9.3 9. I 8.9 e. 1 608. 5 8.3 8.1 7.9 7, 7 607.5 7.2

812.9 2.6 2.4 2. I 1. 8 1. 6
811. 3 I. 0 o. 7 0.5 0.2

1016.1 5.8 5.5 5.1 4.8 4.5 1014.1 3.8 3.4 3.1 2.8
1012.4 2.1 1.7 J. 4 1.1

1219. 38 8.97 8. 57 8.16 7.75 7.35 1216.94 6.53 6.12 5.72

l" 2 3 4

30. 9 61.8 92.7 H3.6 154. 4 185.3 216.2 247. l. 278.0 308.9 617.8

-.0

5

5

6
7 8 9 10 20 30 40 50 1' 00 2 3 4 i 6 7 8 9 10
11

6
7 8

2.5

9 10

l.S 1.8 W.7 1. 7

2.1
2.0
162.0 J. 9 1. 9 1.8 1.8

2.4 2.4 2. 3 1814. 2
~2

202.8 2.8 2.7 2. 6 2.6 202.5 2'. 4 2. 3 2.3 2:2 202.1

5.5 5.4
li.2

9
10

.o .o .o .o .o .0 .o
.o

.1 .5 1. 2 2.1
3.3 4.8

!;d tr.I "tf 0 !;d

8 0

6.6

t:t;I

5.1 .405.0 4.8 4. 7 4.6 .4.4 404.3 4.1 4.0 3.9 3.7 403.6 3.5

5.31
1214. 90 4.49
4. 08

u 19
13 14

JG

1.6 l.6
1.5
141.5

2.1 2.1 2.0
181.9 1. 9 1. 8 l. 7 1. 7 181. 6 1.6 I. 5 ], 4 ]. 4 181. 3 1. 3

7.0
6.8 6.6 606.4 6.2
6tQ

809.9 9.7 9.4 9.1 8.8 808.6 8. 3 ,и 8.0 7.8 7.5

mm.6
1235. 5 1544.4 1853.3 3706.6 5559.9 7413.1 9266.4 11119. 7 12973.0 148'26. 3 16679. 6 18532.9 '211386.1
22~39.4

15 20

.o .o

I

8.6 10:0

8

:::d
tzJ
t7l

13.4
30'. l 53.5 83.7 120.5 164.0 214. 2 271. 0 334.6 404.9
481. 9
65~.9

25
30

3.68 3.27

.'
' .3
.5 ,7 .9 1. 2

и1 .1

c'l
"d

2.

t<J
l;d

.....
2: 8
tr.1

16
11
~

m.1
1. 7 1.6
1.6

18 19

1.4
J.3 l(J.3

i.4

1.5

2.1
2.0 J. 9 1. 9 201.8 ]. 7 ], 7 1.6 1.5 201.5 l. 4

1.5
161.4 J. 4 1. 3
]~3

5.8 5.6 605.4 5.2
!;.O

.

1010. 7 ' 0.4 0.0 1009.7 !l.4 1009.0 8.7 8.3 8.0 7.7 1007. 3 7.0 6.6 6.3. 5;9

1212.86
2.45 2.04 1.63
]. 22

35 40 45 50 ' 55 JO 00. ] 10 1 20 l 3Q 1 40 1 50
2 00

!2l l:I
t;i

1. 6 2,5
3. ii

!:<! ti

21

807.2
6.9 6.7
6.<I

22
23 24 25 96 fl'1 18 18

1.9 1.2 1.1
1.1

3.3
3.2 3.1 .402.9 2.8 2.7 2.5 !U

4.8

1210. 81 o. 40 0.00 . 120!), 59

и

1.2

4.6
604:4

6.1 805.8 5.6 5.3
6.1),

9.18

12

5.3 7,3 9.8 12.7

856.6 1084. l 133il.5 1619.6 1927. 4

Hl.O
1.0 0,9 0.9

161.2

1208.77
8.,36 7.95 7.54 , 7.13

1.1
J 1.1

1.2
1.1 1.1

1. 3
1. 3 1.2

so

0.8

1.0 1.0

4.2 4.0 3.8 3.6

.

.

4.8.

...

T4.BLE VI.-frojection Table1-Continued.
LAT1Tl1DI

4flo 30'.

и
Co-ordinatee of curvature. Meridional ares.

Length in metres of arcs of the иi>arallel, (arc' par.)

llln.

70

8''

9''

-

и

10~'

2Q/I

30h'

41VI'

fiON

. 60"'

и

0

Minutes of x. longitude. Arc par.

Y.

"'l

1-3

140. 8
O.(IJ

.t:tl
['j

30"
31
32 33

34
35

0,7 0.7 0.6 0.6 140.5 0,5 0.4 0.4 0.4 140.3 0.3 0.2
O. l

161. 0 0,9 0.8 0.8
0.7

o. 7

и 181. I 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.8 180. 7 (l, 6 0.6 0,5 0.5 180.4 0.3 0.3 0.2
0, l

201. 2 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.9

402.4 2.2 2.1 2.0
I. 8 1. 7

o.s

603.6 3.4 3.2 2.9 2.7 2.5
и602,3

804.8 4.5 4.2 3.9 3.7 3.4 803.1 2.9 2.6 2.3 2.0 801. 7 I. 5 1.2 0.9 0.6 800.4 0. l 799.8 9.5 9.3
'

1005,9 5.6 5. 3 4.9 4.6 4.2 1003.9 3.6 3.2 2.9 2.5
llm.2 l.B 1. 5
1. 1

1201. 13 6.72 6.31 5.90 5.49 5.08 1204.67 4.26 и 3. 85
3. 44 3. O'J

1n

и

2 3
4

30.9 61. 8 92. 7 123.6 154.5 185.3 216.2 247. 1 278.0 308.9 617.B 926.7 1235.6 1544.5 1853.4 370H. 9 5560.3 7413.8 9267.2 11120. 7 12974.1 14827.6 16681. 0 18534.5 20387.9
2'lZ41. 4
l

y 2 3 4

36
3'I 38

160.6 0,6 0.5
"и 5 o.и

39 40
41 42
43

20U.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.5 200.4 0.4 ().3 0.2 0.2
200. 1

401. 6
I. 4

1. 3 1.1 1. 0 400.9 0.6 0.5 400.2 399.9 9.8 9,6 .399. 5
9.4

2.1 1. 9
]. 7

5 6 7
8

5 6 7
B

-.o .o и0 .o .o
~o

Cl

1 2 3 4 6 B
10

12:

.....
trl

8

~o. ~o

tt
tl2

1.5 601. 3
J, I

и

9
и 20 30

9
IO

.o

>
8
trl
l1l

l'i

10

160.3

44 45 46 47 48 49 60 . 52 53 6'
55 51

' o. 2
140.1

.

0.2 8.2 0.1

o. 3

o. 7

o. 3
o. 0

0,9 0.7 0.5 600. 3 0.1 599.9 9. 7 9.5 599.2 9.0 8.8 8.6
8.4

o. 8

1202.61 2.20 1.79 ]. 38 0.97 1200. ,56 0. 14 . 1199. 73 9.32 8.91 ll!l8. 50 8.08 7.67 7.26 6.85 1196. 44 6.()2 5.61 5.20 4.78

40 50
I' 00

15 20
25

и0 и0 и1
и1

13

30
35

.2
и3 и5 ,7 .9 1.2
1. 6 2.5
3,8

'

53 4 88 12() 2

30 0

0

0
l1l

""' 1-3
tl2

139.9 9.9 139. 8 9.8 9.7 9.7 9.6 139.6 9.5 9.5
9.4

o.o o.o

160.l 0,0

180.1

169.9 9.9 159.8
9. 7и

o.o

179.9
9,8

o.o o.o

o.o
0.0

199.9 9.8 199.8 9.7 9.6 9.5 9.5 199.4 9.3 9.3 9.2 9.1

1000.4 o. 1 999.8 9.4
9.1

2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10

40 45
50

163 6
213 6

Cl
l:o::I

270 3
333 7

<l
l.t;l

55
1░ 00 1 10

403 8 480 654 854 1081 1335
6
2 4

9.7 9.6 159.5 9.5 9.и 9.4 9.3

o.tS

179.8 9.7 9. 7 9.6 9.5 179. 5
9.4

9.'l 9.1 8.9
398.8 8.7 8.5 8.4
8. 3

799.0 S.8 8.4 8.2 7.1>

9!l8.B 8.4 8.1 7.7 7.4 997.0
6. 7

11 12

1 1 1 2

20 30 40 50 00

5.4 7.4 9.8 19.8

3 0

1615 4

1922 4

..

><: "'l 0 ti:i ..... CD en

56 57
68

59!!.2. 7.8 . 7.6 7.4

59
60

9.4

9.3 9. 3 9.2

s.o

797.8 .
7.3

7.'l 6.8
6,5

6.3 6. 0 5.6

~ ~

1--1

*

164*

REPORT OF THE SUPERIN1l'ENDENT

APPENDIX No. 40.
LettC'l"/rom Lieut. Comg. T. A. M. Craven,-U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, communi eating his correspondence with Capt. Thomas E. Shaw, ef the steamer William Gaston, in relation to tlte assistance rendered that vessel when diSabled near the St. John's river, Florida, vy tlte Coast Suniey steamer Corwin.
Co.A.ST SoRVEY STEAMER "Co11.wu1,"

Jack:mn'IJiUti, March ,18, 1853. Sm: On the 16th we discoTered a steamer at anchor outside the bar, with signals ofи distress hoisted. I immAdiately got up stell.m; but it Wll.S tuo late in the tide to cross the bar, on which the sea was breaking heavily. W_ord W88 brought me that her ground tackle was not good, aq,d I sent out a hawser by the pilot-boat, with the promise of assistance the next morning. at high water. I accordingly got under way at 11 a. m., went out, u.nd succeeded in bringing in the steamer William Gaston, from Savannah. Her machinery had broken down, (fortunately, just outoide of the breakers;) ahe was in a very critical position, and the weather threatening. By request of her captain I left. the "Gaston" at Mayport Mills, and, receiving on board of this veosel the passengers and mailи, proceeded up the river to Jacksonville, where l am now replenishing my fuel. Tbe weather has been very bad. with but little intermission, since my arrival. Very :respectfully, your obedient servant, T. AUGS. Cit.A. VEN, Lieut. Comg._U.S. Navy, AS3iatant in Coaat Surwy. PJIOf_ A. D. BACHE, Supt. U.S. Coast Suruy, Washington, D. C.
DEAR

JAcKSONVILLE, Fuи. , March 17.. 1853. Sm: Circumstances which иcompel my early return to Savannah deprives me of the opportunity of tendering to ybu in person my sincere thanks for your kind and effir.ient aid fh rescuing the steamer William Gaston, her pRSsengel'll, oftieen, and crew, from her late perilous condition at sea when disabled, near the St. John's bar. Permit me, in the name of all on board my vessel, to express to yourself onr high appreciation of the kind feeling which prompted you to re11eue ua from imminent danger. May I ask the favor of you to communicate to your officers and crew the expreBBi.Qn. of our Bi.Deere gr&tit11!1e for the timely !ervice so promptly rendered us. THOMAS E. SHAW, Captain Steamer JV'illi41n Gaaton. Lieut. Comg. 'I'. AoGs. CRAVEN, U.и s. Navy, Assistant in U. S. Coast Suney.

u. s. SURVEYING

Sn:AMER" eoRWIN,"

Ma:'rth 19, 1853.

Srn: In acknowledging your flattering communication of the 17th instant, I am constrained to l!ll.Y that too higb"11n estimate is placed on the eenice I have rendered ; but I can assure you it is a source of infinite gratification that aid to

your endangered party was thus at band, and run thankful that the duties of this vessel, in the emergency, were discharged in a. successful manner. и Respectfully, T. AUGS. CRAVEN, L~. Comg. U. S. Nacg, Assistant in Coan Sun;eg. C&ptain TRollAS E. Stuw, SteamM William Gaston.

APPENDIX No. 41.
Letter qf the Superintende.nt if the Coast Survey to the Secretary if the Treasury, trannnitting the letter ef Lieut. Comg. James Alden, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, i'lt regard to the tureck ef the ship Aberdeen, lying in the entrance of tlie harb-Or of San Francirco, California.
U. S.
CoA.ST Smt'f'EY

W~ro, D. C., ..fvgust 13, 1853.

OntOJ:,

Sm: I h&ve the honor to furward, for the Information of the department, thongb I am 'llftt aware that &ny present action . can be taken in the cue, the enclosed oopiea of letteis from Lieutenant Comm&nding James Alden, 1188iRtant ill tho CoJU~ Survey, and Passed Midshipman R. M. Cuyler, reporting the obstruction to Davigation eauaed by the wreek of the ahip Aberdeen, lying at tile entranee of the harbor of San Franeisoo. и Vory respectfully, yours, &e.,

Hon. JAMIи GoTHRU, &crd&f'fl ~I t1co Trea.nny.

A.. D.

BA.CHE,~.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.
U. 8.
иDEAR
SuRVEYl!fG STF.HtER "AcTtvE,"

*165

San Francisco! June 30, 1853. Srn: Mr.. Worster, who has been wrecking for some time past near Fort Point, at the entranee of this harbor, represented to me that the wreck of the ship Aberdeen, which lies sunk at that spot, was an obstruction to nnigation; I therefore sent Mr. Cuyler to make the necessary examination. Aft.er spending two or three dayи there, he returned. Hiu и report upon the. matter is herewith enclosed. The result, although not entirely satisfactory, shows, I think, very ooadueively, that the wreck is there, and in the narrowest p1>rt of the entrance. My opinion is, therefore, that it ought to be remov.,d \\ ith as little delay as possible. With great respect, I am your obedient servant, JAMES ALDEN, Lieut. Commanding U. S. N., Assistant in Coast 8n1'fley. Prof. A. D. B .. cm:, SupBrinttmthnt Coast Surr;ey, Washington, D. C.

U. ~.STEAMER" Acr1vx," San J'rand.sco, JKne 22, 1853. Sm: In oompliance with your order of this date, I have made a hurried eumination of the wreck of the ship Aberd~n, lying off 1''ort Point, with a view to 11.Scertain whether she is an obstruction to navigation. I sounded 011 the out.er portion of the wreck in three fathoms water, but was unable to determine its exact distance from the shore in consequence of a. very thick fog. I should judge its distance from the outer rocks of Fort Point to be from one hundred and ~ighty to two hu6dred yards. The tide at this point is slack for so short a time, the sea so often rough, and the weather thick, that there are but fow clays in the oourse of a year when a thorough and satisfactory examination of the Aberdeen can be made. Respectfully yours, RICHARD M. CUYLER. Lieut. ~ommanding JAMES ALnH,
,Assistant in ll_nited States Coast Suruy.

APPENDIX No. 42.
Letter o.f the Superintendent ef the Coas,t Survey to the Sccret.ary of the Treasur~, trart.'lf!l~i~ one from Lieutenant CommanJ,ing James Alden, U. S. N., assistant in the Coast Survey> recog- и nising the services of Acting Lieutenant R. ill. Cuyler, in traniferring tlte passengers from the Ateamer Tennessee, wrecked near the entrance to, San Francisco harbor.
Co&sT
StrnV.EY 0FFIC1', Marcl&

18, 1853.

81B: I have the honor to enclOl!e to the department a copy of a letter from Lieutenant Commanding Jamee Alden, U.

S. Navy, assistant 'in the Coast Survey, wlw is in charge of the hydrographic party on th" Western coast, recognising the services of Acting Lieutenant R. M. Cuyler, in transferring the passengers from the steamer Tennessee, wrecked near the mouth of the harbor of San Francisco, through the surf, to the steamer sent t;> their aid. As due to Mr. Cuyler, and recommended by Lieutenant Commanding Aid.in, I would respectfully request that this recognition of the "coolness and good m11nagement" shown by Mr. Cuyler may be communicnted to the honorable Secretary of the Navy, to be placed on the files of the Navy Department. Very respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE, Supmfllmdent. Hon. J ...wxs GUTaaiz,

..

&cretary of the Tre481lry.

U. S.

Suavi;YING STE .. MER

"AcT1vx,"

San Frandsco, CalijoN1ia, March 13, 1853.

Srn: I have respectfully to report that so ~oon as tlle news of the dillallter which occurred, near the mouth of this harbor, to the Pacific Mail Steamship Compan}"s steamer Tennessee, reached me, I despatched two boatu, well manned, under the charge of Acting Lieutenant R. M. Cuyler, tn their assistance, and I am happy to say th..y were fortunate in being able to render them good and efficient service. Mr. Cuyler, with his boats, succeeded in transporting more than two-thirds of tome six or seven hundred passengers, with their baggage, from the beach, tln-ongb. a heavy surf, to the steamer wnt to receive them, in th~~ short space of three hours, without the slightest injury .to aay one-a result entirely attributable to his .coolneu and good management. I would alao 1tate that Mr. Cuyler remJWied with the boatll by the wreck nearly two dayи, and BUcceeded in saTing much valuable property. With the reqneat that you will bring auch praiseworthy oonduct berore the. proper department, I am, with great r611pect, your obedient servant, JAMES ALDEN, l,iewt. eemg. U, S. Nи"TIи .Asmtant ill U. S. Cout Srnwg.

ProБ A.. D. B..oHJ<,

~

U.

8. Cout Swr!JCf.

166*
Triliute

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 43.

o/ Tt$pect

to the memory

ef Sears

C. Walker, Esq., assistant in the Coast Survey.и
COAST J3URVEY OFFICE,

Wa:Jhington, Fehru.ary, 9, IB63. Srn: We dillC~rge a nielancholy a.ct of friendship t-0 .10ud11mented brother in comniunicating the pror.eedings of a meeting of the officere and members of the Coast Survey, held at the Coast Survey office on the 2d inst., to pay a tribute of respect and feeling to his memory. The meeting was largely attended, and was characterized by an unusual solemnity of feeling. The resolutions but feebly express the sense entertained by his associates of his exalted services M a brother officer, and as a leader in American science. His death is a national loss. Private grief is absorbed in the contemplation of the larger loss which has resulted to science, !lDd to the public at large. We knew your brother well; we sympathize fill)St folly with your own bereavement. This letter of condolence, showing yo11 how largely it is shared by all his IU!socia.tes, we hope may tend to alleviate your OWi! sorrow. We address }'OU as the representative of Prof. Walker's family. Plel'Se communiellte to the other members, particularly to that kind sister who was oo vigilant in her cares and attentions, our condolenee and sympathy, and remember that his relatives nnd friends will have ll plac&oin our hearts. With lffjntiments ofиrespect, we rem&in truly your friends, . I. I. STEVENS, BTetitt MojoT U. S. Co1JIS of Eng., assistant in the Coaat Sv:rveg. J. J. ALMY, LittdenJJ.ftl U. S. Na,,;y, assistant in the Coast S1troeg. L. F. POURTALES, . и .Assistant in the Coast SurDe1J. Hon. T. W.nIEn, Citu:irmati, Ohio.
DEAR

A meeting of the officers 11nd members of the Coast Sll!"vey in Washingt-On was held at the Coast Survey o~ on the 2d instant, and on motion of Lieutenant Commanding J. J. Almy, United States Navy, usiata.nt in Coast Survey, Profeseor A. D. Bache, Superintendent of the Survey, was called to the chair. и Upon taking the chair, Professor Bache addressed the meeting as follows: \Ve have met to pay our tribute of respect and feeling to one of our most distinguished and valued aeeoeiates, Sears ~и Walker, E11q., whose failing health, for moI'\tha.n a year past, bas kept us in anxiety and fear for the reaultwhich'lial!иnow. come. Mr. Walker was attacked by bilious fever l!Ome weeks since, and though his mind was clear, bis physical strength was not adequate to resist the elfocu of the disease. He died at the residence of his brother, Judge Walker. neti.r Cincinll9.ti, on SuOO,ay evening liиst, having the cousolations of the devoted care of the members of hi11 family residing there, and of his aiawl'! who had be1in sent for to Washington. и и и The aeiviues.wbich Mr. Walker has.rendered to the Coast Survey are known in a general way to most of those whom I addreи. Be bad made the largest collections of American observations of moon eulminations and occultatioos ever lI)ade in the eountry, and prepared to dism1BB them thoroughly for longitudes, and to bring them to bear, as far as applicable,иby the geodetic reиults of the Coast Survey, upon tke longitude of a central point. The magnitude of this labor would have appalled an ordinary mind. He knew that by perseverance it could be accomplished. During this discussion he reached the conclugion that the longitudes from moon culminations could not be reconciled wit:h those from occultll.tioBB, and that the theory must be re-examined for an explanation. His published reports show the successive steps of his investigation, which was not Completed at the time of his de.,ease. In the midst of it, the new, attraetive, and determining diJferences of longitude by the telegraph was committed to him. and he threw a.JI his zeal and knowledge into the solution of this problem, and brought it to the suecesиfal condition in which it now is. He early saw the impossibility of reaching a near result by merely repeating the transmission and reception of signals, beats of a clock or chronometer, and that the bee.ts sent and receive<! must be of time-keepers regulated to diJferent times-as, for example, mea.n solar and side rial-and seized all the consequences llowing_rrom this principle. The telegraphing of transits of starM wa.s original with him. He soon became satiиfied of the necl)l18ity for graphic registry of the time-results, and invited the co-operation of Mr. 8sxton, of Mr. Bond, of Prof. Mitchel, and of U.. Locke, in the иolution. With hirn <rriginated the application of this method of the registry of time-oblle.rvations for general astroamnica.l purposes, now developed by so ml!.lly ingenious modes, and known 118 the "American mtJthod." His researches on galvanic wave-time, growing out of these experiments for difference of longitude, are by tar the most valuable contributions yet made to this march of science. In this subject alone Mr. Walker accomplished a most remarkable :live years' work. But this was only a part of what his.mind round there to do; and aside from this, and labon of daily and nightly routine in computing and observing, he eeeomplished a work of investigation of the orbit, and computation l)f an ephemflris of Neptune, which of kaelf woo.Id have given him an 1mdying reputatiun. I caonot in this place .a~ribe how the training of a liw wu obtained which led to these brilliant' results of our work, and for American science, nor mm I trust myself now in analysis of the mind and heart of this friend of many years. I have faintly pencilled his doings while clo&ely connected with our work, shadowing merely his claims to our admiration, respect and gratitude. On motion of Samuel Hein, Esq., Brevet Captain J. G. Foster, eorps of engineer&, assistant in the Coast Survey, was appointed aeeretary. L. F. Pourtales; Esq., asиistant, then presented the following rellolutions: In view of the great services rendered 1╗' Professor Seara C. Walker do.ring his connexion with the Coast Survey, and e11pecially in the 1.'0tnplicated but essential inv~tigatione oonnected with the loogitade11, in the method of 1111ing the telegraph for dilrerencet1 of longitude and in dme-observAtiona generally, of the lustre reil.ooted upon the werk by .hla other great researcheB in astronomy and eleetriclty, and of his many excellent qua.litiea u an associateи Rts0l'Nd, That we have learned with the deeJlt'llt regret and eorrow the decease of our mooh reapected colleague, Profel!eor Seare C. Walker, and mourn furlrla looa to us aa a friend and a81l&ciate, to our work u -or ita most diiltingniahed, zea.fous, a.nd elfteient officers, and to American science as one of its most ardent, persevering, awl succenful eultivaton. Besolriul, That we will wear the usual badge of mourning for oar deceased oolleague. . . ии Ruo/..,.J, That we offer w tbe family of ,Professor Walker our heartfolt sympathy in their grief, alleviaied only. bf th& cousciouanesa of the waichful care with which they &ttended him in failing health and lo hill last iUneu. ии ~ That the proceediDga of tlUs meeting be OOllWlunieated to the family of Profet110r Walker, uul be pulililhea.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY. FOR 1853.

*167

In Beeonding the resolutions, Major I. I. Stevena, corps of engineers, assistant, paid the following tnlillte to the memory ofthe deQe!l.l!ed: . и и. и . и и. Mr. CHAJRMAN: Afi;er the touching ~nd complete exposition which we have just heard, it would be a work of supererogation on my part to add one single word in illustration of Professor Walker's charact<:>r and serviceи: but I should do gre.at injustice to my own feelings did I not draw from his example a lesROn to guide us in life. Professor Walker Wll.8 not only emphatically a man of genius, bringing strong powers of mind, gi:eat natural ardor, and indefatigable perseverи anceи to pursuits.for which nature hwl given him ll particular bent, but he was emphatically a far-seeing and national man who w11s prompted to exertion that he might 11dv11.nce the honor and renown of bis country, and assist to give her a foremost rank iu science. He hll8 done much in placing our country in this forl"moиt rank, as is her due, her purpose, end her duty. With our newness of cireumstt1.11.ces, with the greatи problems of human destiny and progress we are called upon to solve, with the motives to exertion growing out of our adm\rable form of government, he felt that mere eqwility with former efforts Wll8 a miserable failure, deserving but rebuke and reprobation. Our duty was to take the lead, to press forward in discovery, to illumine the future and redeem the past. We are brought together from various departments of the public sen'ice, ll.l!d are 11Ssociated in a gre11t public work. Like him we should seek, each in his sphere, to advance the hon.or 81ld renown of our common country. We ea:ch should make it our purpose to do something for his profession, which, while it will insure the greatest po88ible prewnt efficiency, will be a preparation for those great exigencies which happen tA:> men and nations, and иwhich lead, if rightly understood and availed of, not only to national glory, but w world-wide иusefulness 11.nd' honor. It fa a great mistake to Buppose that the mere routine of daily labor can lea.d to great results. This CILll be done only by a far-reaching view of things, which sweetens labor BDd gives life and light to laborious punuitll, which fills the sonJ with hope and gives to intellect its greatest vigor. Such Wfl.I! pre-eminently the ease. with onr departed friend. иHis intercourse, too, with the youthful a.11pitants for scientific distinction, waи most admir.able. I have at times been thrown into.intimate Jl!lrsonal relations wit.h him, 11nd frequently have I been delighted with the paternal interest which he took. in all youtJie of promise alll'lociated with him, and his untiring perseverance and hape in doing what he could to develop thefr powers. It wlU! to him an intense personal gratification, and would be the subject of frequent conversation. Ought not tl:tis example to impfil us, eacl:t with the meBDs he h!l.I! 11t his diиposal, to developи y.outhful promise, and thus to do our part towards rearing the structure of American greatness? It was Professor Walker's profound conviction, that wherever Americnn hearts and hands were joined in the IM)OOmplishment of an object, peculiar grandeur would attach to it, surpassing all previous accomplishment. Let.such be our conviction. It iи by single men,Jike us, taking this large view of dnty, pursuing иit withи hope and fixed re~lve, that.new forms of greatne~s will beoome known to the world. As it was with our departed friend, BO let it IJe with us 11.n atiiding sentiment, giving direction to. our daily liftJ, not to i;ninister to the gratifieation of perJjODal or national. pride, but to euable us to exert a world-wide' usefolness. и Lieutenant:~. B. Hunt, ~orps of engineers, assistant, made the following remarks: I should pot'pn t.he present'occasion think of adding nnything to what has. been already Mid, lrere it not for a ple81!8Dt и remembranoe of anJncident which seems not unworthy of narration even here, as it will serve to exhibit l!Qtne fine traits in Mr. Wfillret's ch!racter. The occ11Bion on which I first.chanced to meet our deeeas<:>d associate was at,the meeting of the Americ.an Ael!Qeiatiop., .held in Cambridge. He there first announced the disc'lvery. of Kirkwood's. &nal<JJY- :ij.ia connexion with this discovery is one evincing on big pait great delicacy and kindness. Mr:иKirkwood was then,miknown and unrecognised-a teacher ju the backwoods' of Pennsylvania. He wrote to Mr. Walker, to whom he \'t'fl8 quite a atra.nger; anMuocing hill diwovery, and stating it in an .imperfect and undeveloped itay. Mt. Walker imr:aediately per, eeived its value, and applied the powers of his own mind to the elaboration and developmentи of the idea. When occasion -0ft'ered, he presented, it in all its elearne!ll! and development, to the .American .Associatiqn.~ lt was, indeed, worthy of all notice how he there ascribed the entire merit of the discovery to Mr. Kirk.wood, claiming t.o himself nothing for the labor he had beatmved and the extension he had given to the imperfect conception. Yet itи'wa.sиclear to all preilellt, that without his aid the discovery would 111.ve continued t.o slumber in obscuritv. Whether the analogy proves ultimately tO be an entirely oor.rect one or not i" immaterial, so far as coneeTns the generosity of Mr. Walker'и oour11e. He en.me fonvard and endoned, with all the po'Werful aid of his established. reputation, an idea which else would have lingered unrecognisOO. fur many. long ye11ia. He had. much to Jolie and little to gain in reputation by suoh a course; butи he la.eked noli the kirul.nea and Cl>Ur&ge whi.:lh da.re to take risks for the benefit of others, a.nd for the pro1Dotion of knowledge. By extending a helping hllDd to a conception wl:tieh at the outeet seemed fanciful and hopeless, he did a.eervjce redecting peculiar hon.Or on binuoelf ae a man. How many great and important ideas have been lost to ~cience for years, or even l\irever, because such fiienda were. lacking, who, having the knowledge needful.for discriminating, poi11sees also that.kindline88 and courage which are indispensable to overcoming the prejudices and menu.I inertia of the world ! There are but few such и men, and we can but ill a/IOrd to lose any of them. WhiJ&. we may hope, indeed, that g(IO<I novel idoll8 will bot fail to find. reoognition among. tboee left in.our midst who have eиlished reputations, it is not the less a reason why we should regaTil our pre8ent loss .as p0sitive and .peculiar. He wtmse name is most intimately associated with rhe "Amerioan method" of astronctnical records, with that of telegrnpbic longitudes, with the ephemeris of Neptune. and the ipgenioDB discovery of Laland"e observation on that planet, caifbot fail to be regarded R1i one fur whom the dawning S\'ienoe <; thh country had most especialи fllll8on to wish for long life, '11d to clllim; what he hencefort.h \\ill have, a memory b0001'6d through .the proWeesmg ages. , . .. . , . .On motion af Lieuten&l'lt Commanding Haxwt'll WllOdJrull, U.. S. Navy, assistant, the Chair appointed M:lljor I. I. Stevens, eorpe of engineers, Lieutenant Commanding J. J. Almy, U ,8. Na~y, and L. I<'. Ponrtales, Esq.,""8i,@tant in theиCoasli Survey, a committee to oommnnfcat.c the proceedings of tm1t'meeting to the family of ProfeeSQr Walker, 11.ttd to publish them. и The resolutions were then nnanimomlly adopted, and the meeting adjouril.cl.и. и и . ' и и .A. D. BACHE, Cliairma11. -,JOBlf G. F<>sTut, Breoet CaptOU. CtlTJls of E~и U. S. A., &cretary. ~

a

.APPENDIX No. 44..
Tribute 9Fre11pect to the memory of Lieutettant Joseph Swi.fl Totten, U. S. Army, asmtant in the O()Q,$t Swn:cyи
. A. -ang of the officers of the United Stateи c_.. &irvey Waii held in Washington on the l&h of M..,-. in COOIM!qUeDee of tle death of ~t. Joaepll S. Totten, of the jrl regiment of artillery, yhile engaged a11 an Uli.lt&'llt of the euney.

168*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

Professor A. DI'. ~ache, the Superintendent, was called to the chllir, and Lient. A. A. Gibllou", U. S. Army, appointed 0 Secretary. , . . . ии The Superintendent, upon taking the chair, addressed the meeting as follow1t; и Joseph Swift Totten, to whose memory we have met t-0 pay the tribute of ourи unfeigned regard and respect, was first appointed on tbe Coast Survey in 184fи, awl served in the Eastern section, and witb Mr. Gerdes, the pioneer of the survey on . the Gulf of Mexico. Tbe delicate health which had induced his resignation aи a cadet, now seemed to itpprove under the outdoor services of the survey, and, frnm bis devotion t-0 the work, a long and useful course appeared to be before bim. On the breaking out of the war with Mexico, he was appointed a lieutenant in the second regiment of artillery, and servedи faithfully with his company in the field. Returning at th.e close of the war to garrison at Charleston, his health again became impaired, and he hoped to recruit it by joining once more the Coast Survey, which had proved so congenial 11Dd иbeneficial a service to him. . . . и, He was .detailed for that service in December, 1850, with Mr. Blunt, on the Chesapeake and Hudson; and in Florida, in . the survey of the reefs and keys, sought with characteristic modesty that experience whieh would enable him successfully to conduct a party. Last December he \V8ll detailed to make the triangulation of the harbor of Georgetown, South Carolina, and though much weakened by an attack of illness in Charleston, insisted on proceeding to execute bis instructions, and on his entire physical ability to conduet the operations without more than the ordinary assistance. Thcrngh suffering, from time to time, excessive pain from the consequen9e of a disease of the heart, he still continued to work, after those around him would have persuaded him to seek uiedical advice and aid. He was determined to a.ccompliRh the task allotted to him, and only alter going through the fatigue ofa reconnaissance, and erecting signals, and haying, indeed, occupied some of the. stations for observations, did his disease ol>tain eo far the mastery .aи to induce him to dlsist from work. In less than four weeks from that time he was no more. Not all the care of th8 members of his.family, who in their devotion attended him from Charleston, could prolong his life until he had re.ached his home. . . A strong will, strimg1y.exercised, enabled Lieut. Totten 'to triumph over physical suffering, and to set the example of& eonscientious discharge of. duty under circumstances when most ml'n shrink from even ordinary effort.и He had a natural aptitude for the active operations of the survey, and a method 8!1d order in the execution of his work,и which insured SUC<'AlBS. His mild but steady antl10rity wils felt in his party, and his amiability endeared him to those in his employ, as well as to his . usociates. I cannot better describe his character thanи in the words of an officer of the Coast Survey who. knew him well, and was warmly attached to him, (Mr. Boutell'e,) who, mourning over his early death, says, ".He was worthy, conи 11cientious, and upright....,.,.a true Christian gentleman." и . и Resolutions were presented by Captain 6:. FtJSter, corps of engineers, which, after appl'Opriate remarks by Dr. B. A. Gould, of Cambridge, and Captain H. W. Benham and Lieut. E. B. Hunt, corps of engineers, in testimony of the hlgh eharacter of the deceased in public and private life, were unanimously i;dopted, a11 follows: . и ;, Resufoed; That we have learned with since~e regret the decease of our associate and friend, Lieut. Joseph Swi~ Tott.en, U. S. Army, whose conscientions discharge of duty was an example to us, while his urbanity of manner and k!ndnesa.of heart made qim most agreeable to us in all social relations. и 'и Rtftll-', That we look back up0 n the closing part of the life of our young associate, devoted zealously to work to the last, whi1e suffering under painful and wasting disease, as giving him the highest title to our respect. and esteem, and to' & place in the history of the national work in which he was engaged. ии . и и Resolud, That we oJfer to the Цtmily of Lieut. Totten our most sincere condolence in the.lose of the dutiful wn and affectionate brother thus taken in.early manhood, from the family circle. Resol"8d, That we will wear b; u!ma.l badge of monrBilig for our deceaaed associate, in testimony of our respect for his memory. и . . и R"6oloed, That the secretary of tliis meeting communicate to the family of the deceM,ed the above rewlutions. A. D. BACHE, Chainns11. A. A. G1no:ir, Fint f,ieiuimaat 2d A1tillery, Secretary.

J;

APPENDIX No. 45.
Tribute qfrespect to the memoriJ

ef B. F.

West, Esq., mb-o,ssistant in the Ciialt Survey и

CoAl!T SURVEY STATION, MT. BLUE, NJ:All Ps:1LL1fs, 'MA.1!fE,

и

и

.

&ptembei: N, 1853. и

. DcA1l SIR: Although nothill,ll( can lighten the force of the blow which you haveиsnlfered in the 101Js of your excellent eon,

exetl}it the conaolation from Him who, iu his Almighty wiRdom, permitted its infliction, it moo afford eome gratification to knowfiow umwimously he WM esteemed and loved by those, his associates of tbe few years just pMt, occupying such dHfe.

rent poaitions in respect to him, a.nd of such different "ageR, and yet uniting in one cordial иexpression of deep иregret for his 1088. Such an expression we tender to you and to the bereaved mother of our young friend; praying that yoli llllij7 be 111stained in this your d11y of bitter afilicti~n. и и

Withиgreat,reapeet, yours truly,
Jo1u1
WEST,

A..D; BACHE.

Whereaa it has plea.sed Divine Providl!Dce to re~ove from us, byи death, our yo11ng friend and associate, Yr..Beaj.amili F. West, and in Vi6W of .hU amiable dispositioll, high attainments, and strict adherence in the p6rfonwmce of every duty; therefure, и и и. Resolwl, That we have learned with deep regret and wrrow of the decease of our much esteemed young friend and . associaw, Mr. Benjamin F. West. и и и. &solwd, That while we IBOW'll his losa aa an agreeable companion, we feel that the Coast Survey has Jost an ~ . aocl promising young office!и

.

Esq., .Ak;tandria, Va и.
'

OF THE UNITED ST.A.TES COAST SURVEY J'OR 18113 ..

*169

Ruofoed, That we extend to the family and friends of the deceased our heartfelt symp11thy inи their deep affiiction. /lesol,,.,J, 'lhat a eopyofthese resolutions be forwarded to the family of Assistant West, and that they be printed. ' . и A. D. BACHE. GEORGE W. DEAN. l'. HEVERLY HOOE. THOMAS McDONNELL. LE\.YIS S. HAYDEN.

APPENDIX No. 4t5.
Letter efthe Secretary eftke Treasury to the Superi11tinde,a qfthe Coast Survey, directing sun"Cys and examinations to be made u:ith reference to the location of authorized ligMs, and oth<:r aids to

navigation, in conformity with the request ef tlie Light-house Board, and with t!te acts gress approved March. 3,.1851, and August 31, 18c52.

<ff

Con-

Taus oar DEPARTMENT; .April '1, 185;!. Sra: I have to request that you will causeиexaminatio11s and surveys t,o be made, as enumerated in the eacJfis.ed copy of 11 communication from the Light-house Board, with rhe view to the location of aathorized lights, and other a.id'.s to navigation, in confurmity.to the act of 3d March, 1851, and the 17th.seetion of tho act of 31st August, 1852. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, и

JAMES GUTHRIE,
&craary of tlui Tr11UUry.

Prof. A. D.
и

BACHE,

SupermtllntUnl U. S. C6ast.!3UTtJey, Wasliiilgto11.

L1Ar HoosE &ARD, . и April 6, 1853. SIR: I am direcrod to request that the Superintendent of the Colll!t Survey may be Instructed to m&ke examinations and surveys of the following points, with the 'l'iew to the l~tiou .of (tUthorized lights, and other aids to navigation, in conformity to the lWt approved 3d March, 1851, and the 11th Sl'Ctiun Of the act approved 318t August, 1852, viL: To examine "Deep Hole Rock," in Vineyard sound, MllllS&chuBetts, with 11 view to place a betr.oon upon It. To make a topqgraphical survey of Cuttyh.unk Point, land. a bytlrographical survey of tlie l:ooka called "Sow and Pigs," in connection with it, for the purpose of determining the best position for a ljght-bouse. и и . и To mue examinatФin of Connecticut river иbelow Middletown, and seleotio'!f of sites for orre or more beaconиlights, and for buoys nnd spindl~sиin that looality. и .и To make an ex.Unation, and.report upon the sites for the Coast SUI'Tey signals along the Florida reefs, with a view to . their beiog ll'.lllde p11:nnanent. . и и To make 11.ll e~mination and 111rvey of Paint Bonita; California, north aide of San Francisco bay, with a view to the erection of a eeoond class light-howie. и иExaniinatl-On and aelectioD. aite fol' light-house in San Pedro bay, California. To make a survey of Bomer shoal, New York harbor, with a view to placing ehannel range-Jigpts authorized by law.и Yery respectfulfy, your ohedient @ervant, и
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 0Fr1c:s

of

и Hon. J.1.1u:s Gvraati:, &cretarg of tk Treanirg ии

. и

THOHNTON A.

JENKINS,~и

170*

REPORT. OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPENDIX No. 47.
Ti1ble s!to'wing tlie resulr.~ ef re-examiiwtions for sites of light-hou.~es, bwcons, buoys; <tc.и refirre//, to the Superintendent oj the Coast Survey by the Secretary cg the Treasury, in accordance with the lnws ef M~arclt 3, 1851, and August 31, 1S52, and the recommendation of the Light-house Board. и и и
Sect'n.
State.

INo.i
:-1
:l 3
4

Special locality.

Object.
~

By whom examined. Report m Superintendent. и

'

-I
Maine .. _ии и---

.

1 f Nnbble, Cape Ned.lick,

Ma88achuse tts .и

'
II

New York .иииии
Florida .иииииии Mississippi ; -и . Louisiana .и -~-.

5

YI
VIII

6

York harbor, Me. : Minot's ledge, Cohass<'t I Rocks, BGston harbor, Mass. ~ Deep-bole Rock, Vint}yard sound, Mass. Sow and Pigs Rocks, off Cuttybunk, llfass. иRomer shoal, New :York harbor. и Signals on Florida reef. - и

Examination and surи Lieutenant Comg. vey for light-house. Woodhull. Examination and sur- Lieutenan~ Comg. vey for light-house. Stel!wagen. Beacon ... --и-и __ ; .. Lieutenant Comg. . Woodhull. Examination and sur- I Lieutenant Comg. и 'l'.ey for light:house. I Woodhull. Chllllncl range-lights .. Lieutenant (fomg. Woodhull. ...... ___ и----и ........ иLieut. Jas. Totten .

Report to be made. Recommended Nfr' vember 21, 1853. Spindle recommended Oct. 31, 1653. Recommended Sep:tember 3, 1853. Repoxt to be made. Recommended November 3, 1853.и и Recommended No. vember 15, 1853.

----

.71 Entranceи to East Pasca8

IX

Texas.-ииии-ии .. 9

IO
Xи
California. - ._:. 11

Examination and surgoul'll river. vey for lil(ht-heuseShip shoal and Racoon Examination and 1rirPoint. vey for light-house. EntrWlce to Sabine riyer . Examination and sur1 и vcy for light-house. Aransas PMS.иии- иии ~ ии Examination and survey fur light-house.

Li~tenant Comg.
Sands,

Point Bonitaииииии- ,--и Examination 11nd survey for light:hoose. Do ии и---, 13 ~San Pedro.- ии.иии.. ___ : Exalnination иand l!urvey for light-house. Do.и-и--и 14 Santa Cruz.ии-ии-иии--и Examination .and survey for light-house.

и

Lieutenant Comg. и l?~ommended No'Vember Hi, 1853. Sands. Lieut.Jno, Wilkin-. иReoomm.ended July 12, 1853. son. Ueutenant Comg. Light-vessel recomnu;mded SeptemStellwagenи .. . her 5, 1853. Assistant R. D. Recommended Septemb<;>r 1, 1853. Cutts. Lieutenant Comg. Under instructions fur examination. J. Alden: Lieutenant CelllJ .. Under instructions for examination. J. Alden.

.

-

и

APPENDIX No. 48.
Letter of the Superintendent ef the Coast Survey to tl1e Secretary ef the Treasury, transmitting the report ef Lieut. Oomg. JI. S. Stellwagen, U. S. Na,vy, assistant in the Coast Survey, on_the 81.l1'Vey of Minot's Ledge, Cohassett Rocks, Boston Harbor, with a view to the selection ef a site fai a light-house tht:re. и
CoAsT

Svitv:u STATlo~иiu&AR PHrLLIP5,
_ . . .

NOC6mber JU, 1_853.

ftL,1NE,

иSnt: I have th(loи h()n01~ to transmit, for tho use of the Light-house BOard, the report of Lieut. Comg. H. S. Steilwagen, и.U. 8. Navy, assiaumt in the Coaet Survey, on the survey of the CohassettRocks, Boston harbor, wjth a view wthe sel!ection ,:Of a site for a, ligbtиhoue@, иto replace the one awept from Minot's Ledge, and for whieh appropriation w1111 Jllllde in the act и tfиCbng"'88 approved August 31, ld52. .. . . и и The hydrographic. sui:vey was made by.Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen, who ~s aided in t.be selection of the eite for the light.. house by Captain H. W. BeJJham, U. S. oorps of engineera, assistant in charge of the Cout Survey office. I enclo11e here1')th a tracing of the map, upon .a scale of 5 /ru, on which the pro}l<иeed site iQ indicated by a circle.111 red ink, the dimensioll8 and relative po~ition of the rocka, Md the .depth of water, immediately upon and around them . .I concur in the eelectioa of this poslf:i~ for the proposed light-house, and would respectfully request that a oopy of this Jetter, its Gnclosure, and the sketch, may be forwarded to the Light-house Doard, at wl;wse request the ew:vq andи eX&tnination have been made. и и и Very respectfully, yours,и &c.,

Hon. J.uu GvTBam, &cretMJ of tJu: TrlJUUJ'Y.
CouT S11Jtv1t1' STUMJ;ll "Bmn~ии .dt sea, Stptemiet-1611853.и Sm: To make a survey of 0!IOh rock that appeared well caloolated by size &nil position to answer the purpoae l"eqttirecJ, on .ii scale of 011.e five-hundredth, I eDclo~ each separately, with bu"fl fotmfug a q~wnu figu~ aNWld it atи

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SU:&VEY FO.R 1853.

*171

proper <listR11ee, so as to determine aeeurately the boundary and area embraced, a!s() the pnsition of eaeh buoy, by that means being enabled .to run the lines of soundings truly, plaeing them parnllel and straight, and Prossing them in like manи ner at right-angles; cutting the иpace ,into mim.erous small squttres, and showi11g wirh the great.est precision the depth of water and the nature of the bottom in all parts of the space enclosed, each sounding being marked in its e:xaet .place. I also obtained, at very low water, the figure aud dimensions, with all the elevations and depresиions, as presented.when bare of each .rock, and representing it by a ground-plan and elevated views, the latter in several directions, on a scale
d~

.

и.

.

..

They 11:re called, respectively, the Inner and Outer Millot, Hogиhead Rock, East Willie, enil, Shag Rock._. The three latter present good foundations for th~ ereetion of a stone light.house, hut are objee.tionablP a. l) ing too far inside the outermost point of danger to serve with certainty in very foggy or snowy weather, particularly for vessels coming from tl1e direction of Scituate light'. In this respect the Miuots are for preferttbfe, imd Captain Benham. engineer corps U. S. Army, assuring me that иa sufficiimtly large and firm basis could be obtained on the Inner ~Minot. I wa8 convinced that it possessed tho greatest advantages, 141ld gave it the m-0st minute examinution, endosi11g it three times by buoyи as before explained, and also measuring its surface and sounding frQm it in lintиs rnrying from a central p-0intиin thirty-two different directions, and the Outer Minot in same way with uineteen radiating lines, each line determined by act11al measurement as to le11gth, and by angles taken from c.entral point where JI!easuring line was fastened, getting theиexaet direetion of line by the arc subtended between it and a line ofsightj to an established object on shore~ thus each so\J.ndihg is on a correc.tly determined liuc, and at actual measured diиtances from central point. The advantages presented by the PT\иposed location on the Inner Minot, are;. that it is greatly иheltcrt'd by the Outer Minot, and much protect.ed from tht;> {oreo of the sea; that a stone struct1!re, a.ceording to Capt .. Benham's opinion, (whose long experience and great abilities иas an engineиer make him a most capable judge,) can he erect~, large enough at base, with a perfectly secure foundation on the rock, by preparing the lower courses of lal'ge blocks of granite, dressed so as to key or dove-tail mgether, and to rnutnally support each other, being sfill further secured by boltи or clamps to the solid mass of the rock and one another; and by filling all the inter.slices with roncrete, the tower ui!l be almost indestructible. '.l'he examination иhows that the work can be prosecuted in very rough weather. as moorings cttn be placed for vessds, in sufficiently deep water, close to the S. \Y. side of the Inner lfinot, where it and the outer Iedge. form 1tn excellent bi-eakи water, and the stone and materials can he swung by a derrick directly in tu place from e. \иessel's иd@ck. A light-house can thus be built, in a reasonable time, that Will last for centuries, and be a warning against till dangers of that group, иand и . и elanding within three lmndred yards of the furthest dangerous spot. и Very respectfully, your obedient servant. ' H: S. STELLWAGEX, Lieut. Comg. U: S. Navy, Assi:itant in Coa$t Sun:ey. Prof. A. D. IlA<;RI!:; . Supl>rin_tendent. U. S. Coast Suney, near Phillips, Maine.
0

APPENDI~ No. 49.
Lett.er ef the Superinte'fl,Jeni qf tlw Coastи Su~1иcy to the Secretary ef tlte Treasury, c:om1mmicati11g . the report ef Lieut. Comg. 1U. Wood!tull, U. S. N., asr;istant in the':Ooa.st Su:rtYf!h upon an examinatio~ ef. Deep llule Rocle, in Vineyard Sound, lJlassachusett.s, with. reference to placing a

heacon иthe,,,иe.

C. S. 81:,,('TroN, NEAR PnrL~IPS; M,.;,,,., October 31, 1853. Sm:. I have the h~erи~"tqmsmit, herewith, the repoh of Lieut. иComg. M. Wiiodlmll in rdation to .placing a beacon 011 Deep Hole Rock, in Virtuyard sound, Massachusetts, the re~ult of his e.xamination, made under my instructions, and by direction of tho department. и . . I would .respectfully request that a copy of this letter, and accompanyiD~. report and sketch, may be tronsmitted to. the Lig~t-house Board, by whose request the examination was made. . . и Very .rnspectfully, yours, &e,, A.. D. BA.CHE, Supcrint&tdeat. H-on. JA.nri=s GurRRn:, Secretary of the Treasury.

L. S. Scnoo%'iKR_"GALLAT1N,
Wood'~

1 '

Hol.e, October 22, 18:i3.

Sm: Ibave the honor to inform you that I completed, yesterday, the survey of" Deep Hole Rock," at the ea trance of 'Deep Hole harbor," near Cotuit. Thiи иrock is about fifteen feet long and abont twelve feet wide; and has on it, in tho ahoaleBt sp-0t, throo and a half foet of water at low tide. Though soundings around it a1иe remarkably rqi:ular, being almost ad~ lliit, with thirteen and a half feet on it at low water, I should think a good-sized spindle would anиwer all the purpdlles of a beacon, and oould be more easily erooted, and be much lees expensive. There is D{иW a ls.rge red buoy near it, ~I ftlofthe opieion, if it oould be properlypla.ced and maintained in its position, would answer. However, 1u a spindle fa.niore permanent, Bild as it eould be so constructed as to show prominently, it would be the b('st distinguishing mark; under the circumstances, that could be devised. I send you the'Chart of the rock, which will, perhaps, give you 11. better idea of the subject than any wrltten exposition would d(). If it is determined to put a beacon on it, the apex. of tlie rock will have to be cnt off, shaped as shown in the sketch, which will mcrease the expense. "Deep Hole harbor" i<1 prlncipil.lly used as an ancl1orage in a northeast blow for eonsrerи bound along the north ahore of Nantucket sound. Further than this it ii of small imporhince, the rock being entirely out of the way of the entrance

172*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT
I presume the gmde

to Cotuit, but is much complained of by those who uиe "Deep Hole harbor." I have not heard that it has ever been !he
cause of accident, which argues that its position iи well known to those frequenting the locality. required is.necessary in foggy weather and dru:k nights. и Yours, respectfully, Professor A. D. B.o.oHF., Superinlelldent U.

M. WOODHULL,

.J,ieut. Comg. U S_. N., Assistant in Coast Suruy.

fJ.

C~ast

SunJeg, Washington, D. C.

APPENDIX No. 50.
Letter ef the Superintendent of th.e Coast Sиurvey to the Suretary of tlte Treasuryи. transmitting extracts from tl1e report ef Lieut. Crnng. M. Woodhull, U. S. N., as~istant in the Coast Survey, upon the surrey qf the "Sow and.Pigs" rocks, off Outtyhunk, Massachusetts, with reference to tlie location ef a lig.l!t-house.
Mouwr BLuE, NEAR P111f.L1Ps,J\IA1sE, &ptemher 3, 1853. Oll the иsurvey of the rocks off Cnttrи hunk. Massachusetts, !mown a~ the "Sow'1111d Pigs," where it is proposed to establish a lightиhouse. The hydrogmph10 surveys were made by Lieut. Comg. Maxwell Woodhull, U. S. Navy, assist11nt in the Coast Survey, n.nd the; topographical survey by H. L. Whiting, Eиq., assistant in the Coast Survey. Captain H. W. Ilen!iam, corps of engmeers, assistant in charge of Coast иsurvey office, &lim Bided in the final examinations of the proposed site for the light-house. The first of the two maps herewith tr11DSmitted show1 the general relation of the rocks to the island of Cuttyhunk, and the depth and charaeter of the botlom in the vieinity. It is on a scale of 1;if.nr, and indicates, by a circle in red, the posiи tion where Lient. Comg. \Voodhull p.roDi/seir to place the light-house. The second map shows on a large scale. (Th) t~e relative positions of th~ rooks aro.und t~oi~e; and their dimensions, and the depth or water on the proposed .site, and m the immediate vicinity. . . 'и и и : и и In his report to me Lieut. Comg. Woodhull ~ays: "This shoal is formed of single rocks of variol!s sizes and irr.cguи Jar forms, none of whi't-h, not even the largest, have any considerable surface. иThey rest onи a hard bed of mixed pebbles and rocks, with the iu.terstices kere and there nlled With sand aud clay. They extend in .a r~gular line from the bluff of Cnttyhunk, firиt W. -by S. 1,463 metres, then SSW. 750 metres, then turn SW. by W. 51l3 metres to tbe place where the light-boat is mooted. There is J>ut one place on the shoal, in my ju<Jgment, suitable for the ilrectian of a lighthouse. I have marked this spot en my sbeQt.witb aи doublo red line, which aooms particularly adapted t-0 .the_purpoиe. This site is on a ridge amjdat a cluster of 'rocks, mrming almost a full cirele of some fifty feet in diameter, Within .whichи иthere is about one to two feet water at low tide. The arrangement. of the r~ck is such .118 to form an admirable bre1ikwater, within which a foundation иcould be built. This Joca)ity ell.I! be easily approached, having compn'rat~vely lleep water on the north иide, sufficiently so ijuring a <1mooth sea for scows o.r "t~er'.vessels drawing. four or. five ~et water,- lfиa temporary working pier were' buil;, resting on the rocks, and extending. north fiftr or one h'U11.dred feet, veuels of more con~ lliderable burden could approachи safely. The Wh11le's Back or Middle Ledge ro.;ks are too near ill-shore for the purpose, even if their dimensions "'ere adequate. Sow Rock stauds alone,и in about two f~homa. water at Jo~ tideи This _is the most considerable in size oi the whofe nufliber that show themselves. Tlio иrock has a base of about twenty feet by fiReen, shaped as shown in sketch. The ,apex of the rock only is se~n at ordinary lllw water.. At very low spring tldefi,' . I am. informed that" one-third of the rock is ex-posed. While at work I approached it' fromи several directions, but was nDAl>le to get upon it, aa the sea was breaking too violently to.do so. и и и ;, A light-houAe, placed as described, would be of ii)calcul11ble value on this dangerous иpart 'of the coast, and would sufficiently mark the shoal. The soundings outside of the reef are characteristic, and would be. sufficient guide to the navigator if the light-houM wMe furnished withи 11 proper fog-bell, or fog-whistle. As a rule, the reef should not be approached in foggy weather nearer on the north -side than where th<- soundings fire fourteen fathoms, and on the west and south aides seocn fathoms; from which depth. the reef riires abruptly." . . ". In .a subsequent r"'port, Lieut. Comg. Woodhull says: иf' The rocks. wl1ich form almost a circle about the p.roposed site, 11re most of them of large diml'lngions, resting on a bed of rocks and stones from the size Of those generally used for paving, to boulders of two to three feet in diameter.' I was fortanll.te in having a very smooth time, and I examined with great care and eat:Uifactioo the whole locality, and I have no hesitation in saying thatиthis 'ie the very ~st place_ that could be selected fur the object proposed. The water to the northward of this site is deep enough, as you will' pe'rce.ive by the chaAP, at the didtaхee ofиfotty to fifty feet from the main rock (on the chart m.arked .No. 1) to permit vesaels drawing four ur five feet watf'r to irpproach without diffieulty. At a hundred feet, vessels of a gre11ter draught could anchor and aeUver their loading with eaile and l!llfety. No. l rock would be a capital position for erecting aи boom: The.rock is by measurement fourteen feetи in length, seven feet wide, and nine high. The surrounding rocks would give sufficient, support for the guys, &c. :.Att-Ogether, the facility for work is re.markable, considering the lO(lality. .l ha.ve been Pfirlieul.ar in my inquiriee as reg11rds tlie heиt Reason for smooth working weather. I find that, on an average, it is always 81ll-Oother with the wind anywhere from NW. round by N. to E.; that tho winils which cause the greatest amount of swell are from the southward and westward, which a wind of a few hours' duration from the northward soon overcomesи. '!'he oalculatio.u is, that from M11y to the ead of August, about a quarter to a third of the time operations could l>e carried on wit,h Pn'feet ease, and about one-fifth of the time for the rem1tinder of the year. I would also state that theJ"e ia a.n al>ull4ailo1vof rock of the reqniBite hardness and quality for building the foundation, &c., tv be found oa- Cuttybllllk island, which could be purchMed at a very moderate coat. I am informed, fitrther, that the ledge is frequently endl'ely bai.-1! {)f water, if the wind is or has been prevailing from the northward for ~ome dayR, with a miooth se&preeeding .a llJ'ring tide. I have never been so fortunate as to find it u de11cribed; bnt, owing to a slight swell, I have alwayи fuund fro&,1IDB oo two and a half feet watH on it." .

SIR: I have the honor to transmit, for the use of .the Light-house Board, a report

a

I would re3pectfully request that a oopy of. thil report be transmitted, with the maps, to the Light-house Board.

и

Veey rospectfully, yours, &c.,

A.. D. BA.CHE,

~-

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SUR-VEY FOR 1853.

*173

APPENDIX No. 51.
Ile11ort

ef Edmund

Bl1mt, Esq., a5sista11t in thr: Coast Survey, to the S11perintcndcnt, upon the selection and marki11gofpositio11..sfor range btacons ,in New York 11arfmrи.
BRoOKLYi<,

J1J11e

9, 1853.

Sm: I returned yesterday to the eity, having finished the duty asиigned me in lour instructions of March 24, by marking out, on the ground, the poiats for the range-beaeuns rroposed by Aииistant Glti"li, as far as io practicabltи, . The position for the proposed sites on Point Comfort not being furnished me, and :Mr, Glllck hadug op<'ued no line showи ing the direction of the range, I was left to select such points as would serve to bring vessels, when on the rnnl(e, on a !in~ with theиpoint A, and in mid-clrnnn.el between Sandy Ilu.иk extreme point and Flynn's .Knoll; and these points, I am happy to say, ll"hen referred to Mr. Glack's surrer, differ very little from bis proposed line.. . The place where thisиJine touБ,heR the shore is 11ho.ut eight and a half st11tute miles from the point A, and the distance of the place where it might be advisable to build the near light frnm this point is abont sixtMn hundred and fifty yards; theи land is about fifteen foet above high water, and by e"tendilll( the line about eight hundred yards, an elerntion of the same height might he obtained-, but this I think objectionable, The laml is low on the e:xtended line, and an object fifty feet in height would be barely' projected .against the sky wlieu seen from a ship's deck at A, and it will be necessary to have the control of a gore of laud in front of the near light ext('nding to the shore, so as to have art openini; of about 5░. If, ther-r fore, the near light would be brought nearer to the shore, and at the same time the front light be builtи on the shoal nl'ar . the sil<-foot knoll, (B,) I .think the' advantиge. to be derived would justify the additional l'xpeuse, and I am J!.t liberty to say that Major Delafield and Lieutenant Case agree with me as to the neell!lsity of building the front beacon out from the shore. These beacons being of the most importance to vessels bound through the main channel between San. .Hook and. Flynn's lfooll, should be sufficiently elevated to be s_een in cleиr weather from theи poine .A. I wonld therefore suggestи thi>t, in addition to the change proposed in the sites, an increased height of twenty feet. иbe gi'i"en to each structure, o.-er what, nuder other circumstances,иwonld be considered necessary, since objects of little elevation are not seen when the ray passes over water at a higher tenwerature than that of the air. . The ne"t range staked out was that. for the ship channel between SW. spit and what ii! called the Knull, The land near the shore is sufficiently bigh to allow a proper beacon to be erected, nud an upeeing towards t11c bay can be obtaiued so as to prevent obstructions, The site for the near beacon is nearly a mile and a ha.If from tlie shore, about one hundred and fifty feet above the level ofthe'sea: and a building here would, when sce11, be pr~jeettid on the trees. The slope is sufficiently sudden, and the elevation such that nothing can be placed to obstruct the \'iew from the bay. The points marked B and C, ra11ges for the elm tree bl!acon, have been marked on the ground, and observations made to determine the position of the pointи C, aи .also the> plac,e where the beacnu иnow stands, witl1 reference to pennanent, objects oil the bay; so as to provide for. .anY. change in the direct.ion or location of said ranges, should the e:xamination of the swash.channel by Lieutenant WoodhtrlT show it.to be nece;;sary. . , и 'l,'he sotindings taken on all the lines were .very satisfactory to Mftjor Delafield' and Lieutenant Case, and so I have mooe observatioиns for determining the pqsition of thtf ranges. These gentlemen are desirou~ that I should furnish such data !IS would enat>te them to project the same, , и Very respectfully, your obedient servant, и

EDMUND BLUNT.
Prof. A.. D. BicRE, &perintendent U, S. CollSl
s~rvey,

Washittgton.

APPENDIX No. 52.
. Letter of the Superintendent ef the Coast Slln:ey to tluf Secretary ef tlte Treasury, transmitting theи report ef Lieutenant James Totten, U. S .. Army, assista1Zt in the Cofl,St Survey, ttpan the
res.uh of his examinations cf the Coast Su;rey signals along the FlorUla reef, with a view to make. them permaiient.
CoAsT
SuRvEY STATIO'I, NEAR PH!LLIPs, M.u!fE, No~er

3, 1853.

Sm: I have:the honor toииtrausmit, herewith, a report from Lieutenant James Totten, U. 8. Army, assistant in tlui Coast Survey, upon-his examinations of the oignals erected by the .Cuast Survey along the Flort~la reef, with a view to ascertain
the feasibility anJи means <>f malting them permanent. This examination was made underи my instructiens, and by direction of the Treasury Department. иI would respectfully llиk that a copy of this letter and report, and sketch accompanying, may be transmitted to "the Lightиhouse Board, at whose r!llJ,nest the examination was made. Very respectfully, yours, &c,, A.Jk>. BACHE, Superintendent. Hoa.-и:rAu; s G11r 11a1E, Secrdary of tk TretUuiy,

NEl'I' Loirnu'f, CoN>1EOTICllT, Octuber 22, 1853. Snt: In obedience t.o your imltrucUons, T have D<lw the honor to submit the folltl\Iiog report, relative to the means of making permanent th!'! signals erected by the Cwst Suney, fur its pi.rpooos, a.tong the J.o'loridii reef,

174*

REPOR~

OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

These signal~ having already, in thA limited p~~iod since they were put np, proved _of decided and acknowledged utility to navig11tion alongи the hazardous c~oast betwePn C11pe Florida and Key West, I have on one or two former occa.siuns 11trongl! reco1umendf;ld.making: them n;!ore.durable, 1.1'!.d always, I beli;ve, with your !pprobatiou. и и The l)"lOllt i.mportnnt of the signals erected by me, in obedience to your instructions, along the Florida reef, stand from four to six miles from the outside shore-line of the Florida Keys, and generally within a few hundred yards of the Gulf Stream. 'Where the signals stand, the depth of water at low tide does not exceed four fuet in any instance, and the Gulf Stream just outside of them is of unlmown depth. At certain times, owing to tbc state of the atmosphere, tho low lands of the Keys cannot be descried, however ~areful the watch, by a navigator approaching the reef, until he becomes entangled amid the dangers of these coral rocks,' and then, often, it is too late for tbe best seamanship. A careful consideration of these factil must convince any one of the very great usefulness of a systemи of conspicuous beacons or signals at disumces of five or six miles apart, and focated upon the most seaward or projecting points of tke li'Jorida re!'fи This.being premiиed, to explain the object of the report, I now proceed, at once, to explain my plan for making conиpicuous and 111иting, signalR of those ahиeady fixed along the reef by the Coast Snrvl'y. и The signal~ as they rn>w stand, along the. 'Florida reef, consist each of a cast iron screw-pile fixed into the coral rocks, and having 11 mangrove signal-pole in it fFom thirty to forty feet in length. The screw-pile is nin'e feet in length a111l nine inches in diameter, and bas a cylind1ical cavity within it sernn fuet deep and seven inches io diameter. The different и scrcwиpiles 11lo11g the reef are sunk into the coral rocks, & c., wherever placed, to a depth of between three and six feet, and are. believed, in almost every instance, to be jmmovable. The ruaagrove sii:nlll-poles are, howefor, perishable, and these are th<i parts which must be renewed. The signals I now propose for replacing those of maDJ;TOve, and rendering them as lasting as the screw-piles themselves, are to be of cast nnd wrought iron, and arranged as follows: The sketch accompanying this represents a vertical section through the axis or central vertical line of the signal in position. Tho lower section, ab, represents the screw-pile, and all above that represents the, signal in three sections, b c, c d, and do. The whole l<'llgth from b, the top of the scrcw.-pilo, too, the top of the signal, is intended to be thirty-six feet. The first sectioиxtends ten feet aoovиe ~he top of the screw-pile, and four foet below it, into the cylindrical cavi,ty of the screwplle. This lower se(иtion of the,signal is to be caRt with a shoulder upon it at a point four feet from il:ll lower end, or ten feet from its upper; the object of this -shoulder is to hold the lower section in positiOll, by resting upon the top of the screw-pile. The second or middle -section is ten feet in length from c, where it enters the lower or first section to d, its top, and passes into the hollow cavity of the first four TMt- On the top of the first section, and foot of the second, 'are cast the respective halves of a oollar, intended, by the 8llиistance of nuts and screws, to hold thfl two sections firmly together. The exterior diameter of the vertical shaft of the signal, where it enters the screw-pile at b, is seven inches, and at the top of the I<econd section, ut d, it is five inches; these two sections are cast hollow, the iron being only one inch io thickness throughent the @hиft, as repres8ilted in these two sections, The third or upper иection of the si!,'llal is of wrought iron, and is sixteen foet in length above. the top, d, of the second section, and passes down into the hollow ca>ity of the second section four feet; these two sect.ions, the middle and upper, are arranged with a wroal(ht iron collar to hold them firmly together when in position. On tlie toиp of the signal shaft isиarranged, as represented-in the figure, a cylinder of stout hoopiron, six feet in leqgth and two feet .and a half in diarnetc1-. The different pi~s 6f hoop iron, of which this cylinder is formed, run vertically 11nd horizontally, 11nd Wherever they cros~ each other arc strengly riveted together. Too horizontal straps are arranged as the hoops of a barrel, and the vertical onesи are hen~ to a horizontal direction at tho ends o~ the cylinder, pass into the centre, and are there made fast by riveting to a collar, th_rough. which the vertical shaft of the signol passes, and to which it is firmly att!lched. и Tlte figured иfg, which, for co.11venience, I will call a vane, is sj,.i:-foot squar~,. made of thick sheet iron, strongly brl!Ced and riveted_, This vane, as represented. in the sketch, is supported in it& _pos1.- и t;on by two powerful hinge~. one at the top- andи t!ieиother at the bottom of the vane. The lower hinge o,f the vane rests upon the upper surface of the eollar, uniting the middle and upper sections of the signal иhaft, which ii! BO formed and polisbed as to give a smooth surface for the vane to -revolve upon. Tho whole arrangement of the_vane is so_ ealcul'."ted ~a, to allow it to rernlve into _thfl direction the )Vind may blow, under very light pressure, and thtts its snrface of th1rtyиBIJ> square fe"t will never be present!)d to the 'whole force of a strong wind. This vane was hung as de1<cribed, ood its dimen, sions adopted, in order th11t the leam possible reslstane<J иmight be presented' to ~he force of the \vind, and the иgreatest J>Ossible surface to the_ eye of the mariner. There. is but one posioion in which the vane will .l)ot be seen, and that i11 when it chances that th_e mariner finds himself in the plane of ,the vane; but, as this will seldom occur, and can never last long, such' a consideration can be no great objectioJI, и и If the vane should be hid by the position of the sailor, he will still have the signal-shaft, and hoop-iron cylinder upon the top of the shaft, to attract bis attention. It is very easily l!.elln that the whole signal, as I _have described it, must prove a very eonapiouous and remarkable object, standing~ as' each of these will, so far fr(}m land, and so near the course of all vessels bound into or out of the Gulf of l\fexico by this passage. As to the cost of theoo signals as I have_ partially described them, I will now give you the result of a careful estimate made by an individual in New London who is sn,xioua to do the work, and whom- I take pleasure in recommending. -I refer t-0 ]\fr. Albertson, anи iroo founde~, well known-in-New London, and one who has the reputation of doing his work as faithfully and as reasonably as any other inи this city. He gRve me, as the resultи of "the clo<iest estimate he is able to make," for the cost of one signal, aa deeeribt>d, the sum of "two hundred and eightyиfive dollars." I cannot say what the coиt of tnmsportation to Key Wes$ will be, nor juei what the expense arfixing the signals in th,eir" places, but think it would be safe to call the whole one bundred-dollal'8, and I do not belie!'e It will vary much from that sum on either baud. Call, then, the total expense of eacl1 siga11.I four hundred dolla111, and :fifrnen of them mm be put up for six thou.and dollars. If this иbe done, I will insure tha.t the signals RO Improved will be the cause of saving fifty times their cost to the commercisl world every yesr they stand .
._,. ff и ..
~

и

и

... ,

..

determined upon; and. eonvin.d myself of the decided arlvantages of such a иystem of signala to navh!ation ~~e l<'lorida reef, I would ad vise the adoption in the strongest terms. I menti-0n the points in the o:rder in whi-0h the7>blld, going southward along the reef from Cape Florida. . . Jst. Fowey Roeks, bearing S. 3fi0 4e 44" (true) E., and distant 6.33 miles from Cape Florida, and in latitude 25░ 35" 231' N,, and longitude li!QO J' 26// W. . 2d. Triumph Hect: hearing S. 2104"17" (true) E., and distant 8.33 miles from Soldier Key, anclin latitude 2l)Q 28" 3&'" N .и and longitude !i<J" 2' 25N иw. 3d. Long Reef, h..ariug S. J:J0 53' 5l-'' (true) E., 11.lld di~taut 10.19 miles from Soldier Kt>y, and in latitude 25░ 26-' 4&'" ' N., a11d longitudti 80░ 2' 5_7'' W.

1 wm now mention th.e points where I would recommend that the improved signals be plaeed, if their adopti1>n l!ho;:il.d be

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST .SURVEY FOR 1853.

*175

4th. Ajax Reef, hearing S. 26░ 6' gn (true)"E., and distant 6.21 miles from Elliott's Key No. 1, and in latitude 25░ 24' 9" N .. and longitml<l 80░ 3' 3;;" W. и и5th. Pacific Reef, bearing S,.15░ 48' 11" (true) E, and distnnt 8.16 miles from Elliott's Key No. 1, and in latitude 25░и 22' 13" N., and longitude 80" 4' 6" \V. 6th. Turtlo Reef, heaи ing S. 22░ 20' 48" (true) E., and dist=t 5.04 miles from Old R11odes, and in latitude 2::i 0 16' 52" N,. and longitude SOo 81 10" W. 7th.иThe Elbow, bearing S. 2░ 4' 5'' (true) E., and distant 4.35 miles from Basin Bunk, arnl in lutitu<le 25░ 8' 32" N., and logitude 80░ 11' 16" W. и 8th. Grecian Shoals, bflaring S. 45~ 58' HI" ( trufl) E., and distnnt 4.47 miles from Sound Point. 9th. French Reef, bearing S. 37░ E.,_by cornpaиR, and distant 3.73 miles from lower Sonnd P"int. 10th. Pickle's Re~f, uearing abQut S. 18░ E., by compaии, and distant 6.17 miles from Point Charles. 11th. Couch Re(lf, bearing about S. 4░ 30' :w., by compass, from Hodriguez Bank, and about S. 43░ 3CY E. from Key Tavernier. и и 12th. Crow's Reef, bea.ring ahout S. 39░.15' E., l>y compass, and distant between four and five miles from Snake Creek Point. 13th. Alligator ~eel', bearing about S. '.'P, 0 30' E., by c-0rnpass,-od distant near five mileи from Indian Key. 14th. The American Shoals. These shoals are between fifteen and twenty miles from Key 'Vest, as you go north and eastward from that place along the reef. : и All the points named are .well known to pilots an~ othn p~rsons aeqnaintPi! with tl1e Florida reef, and barn, each of them, at some time proved fatal to oue or more ~ooll sl1it" and their cargoes ; and they will c<.mtinue the source of such misfortunes unless some such thing as recommended be done to warn иaifors of their proxirniry t<> dan~er in th,.Re waterA. It will be perceived. that after the 7th point in the order ahove named, the latitudes, longitudes, &c., uf the localities of the signals nre not given. This arises from the fact that in some of the cases the surv"F hos not yet wacbe<l thern, and in others-such as Grecian shoals, French r<>Rf, nnd PicklR's rel'f-rhe calculation< are not yet completed. It is probable, however, th~t the survey ruay envelope the whole of the points named by the end of the next season's woni.. As I have before ment10ned, each of the fourteen p<>ints named lms a screw-pile signal tixe<l upon it, wLid1, in counexion with the description given oftlle localities, will serve to show where they are. и The 15th signal, the locality of which as yet I Lave not mentioned, may be fixed in the screw-pilc1 already located upon a dangerous point known as the "Washerwoman," bearing, by compass, SS\V. from Key Vacas, or may be placed in the most advantageous of several which the Survey may find it necessary to put up between Alligator reef and the .American slioals during the progress of the trianglllation along that part of the Coast. и I am, very respectfully, и JAMES TOTTEN, First Lieutenant C:. S . .A., and Assistant in Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 53.
Letter of tlw Superintendent of the Coast Surney to the Sccreta.ry of the Treasury, transmitting the ,,/I,.eport of Lieut. Comg. B. F. Sands, U. S. Navy, assistant. in the Coast SurtJey, wpon the ~xamination and sunиey ef tke eastern entrance to Pasca~oula river, иMississi1pi, 1vith a riew to the sek._ction of a site for a light-house to be placed thei-e.
COAST SURVEY STATION, NEAR PHILl.IPS, MAINE,

Novcmlnr 15, 18'>3. Sia: I have the honor to enclose herewith the report of Lieut. Comg. B. F. Sands, U.S. Na>y, asиistant in the Coaet Survey, upon the examination and survey of the eastern entrance to Pascagoula rivei-, Mississippi, rnsde 'lith a view to the selection of 11. site for a light-house, for which appropriation was.made by the act of Congress approve(! August :ill, 1852. I concur in the recommendation contained in the report of Lieut. Corng. Sands, that the light be l>iaced upon the marsh at Sranish Point. A sketch i11dieating the precise position proposed for thi~ light-house will be .transmitted. as soon HS the reduction of the original ~heet can be made. I would respectfully request that a copy of this letter and enclosure may be tnnamitted to the Light-house Board, at whose request the survey has been made, under the instructions of the department. Very respectfully, yours, &c.,

Hon. JAME8

.A. D. BACHE, Superin.lctldent.
GvTHRIK,

&craary ufthe Treasury..

OFFICE

U.S. CoAsr.SuRvxv, WAsRrNaTON C1Tr,

October 10, 1853.
SrR: Since my communication of the 4th Oetober, 1852, upon the subject ofa ligbt-bou8e nt East Pascagoula for the

entrance to Pascagoula river, I have mad!l a th1>r1tugh survey of the loe&lity, agr!leably with your instructions. Although with but five foot water over the bar at its mouth, (which I think ean be easily increased by dredging,) the и river has now a large and increaaing trade in lumber; and with greater facilities for navigation, it would also be so~ht as an outlet for the cotton so extensively raised in the ne~hborhood of its bltllks. A small class light-house or beacon would greatly facilitate the entrance ovetи the bar; and if placed upon the marsh at Spanish Point, (the weatern point of the river,) it would be a better leading-mark. for the chaunel thou if upon the fa:it l4Hd of.the ea&teni side. Respectfully, yonr obedient servant,

RF.SANDS,

Lieut. U. S. N., Asиistam in U. S. Coaal SurNtJ.

Prof. A. D. BAoU, Supeririurultnt U. S. Coast 81'l"rtfl.

176*

:REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT

APPE:\'DIX No. 64.
Letter ef the Superintendent of tl1c Coast Suruy to tlic Secretary ?.f tlte Treasury, transmitting the report '!I Lieut. Cnmg. B. F. Sands, U.и S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Survey, up_on the e;r;amination a11d survey ef Ship shoal, Louisiana, witli a 'l'icw to the selection ef the site far a .Zigla-lwuse to be placed tlterc.
CoAsT SuRvEY STAT;oN, Nl!'AR PHtLLJPs, MAINE, No~emher 16, 1653. Srn: I have the honor to transmit the report of Lient. Comg. B. }'. 8!\nils, U. S. Navy, asaistant in the Coast Survey, upon tlw examination and survey of Ship shoal, Louisiana, with a view to placinir a light the.re, as provitled for by act of Congress approved August 31, 165:.!. и The spot marked A, on accompanying sheet. was selected by Li~ut, Corng. Sands for reasons given in bis report, and in which I concnr, as also in his rncowrnendation that !In irun pile light-house, fur a seacoast light, be erected upon the spot selected. . I would respectfully request that a copy of this letter and enclosure may be transmitted to the Light-house Board, at whose requeot the examination and sunиey were made, under the instrnctions of the department. Very respectfully, your<,"&c., A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. Hon. JAMI'S GoTnnrn, Secretary oftliи Treasury.

"\V.i.smlfGTON C1TY, October 2, J853. Sm: In pursuance of your instructions of February 3, 1853, to make the survey of Ship shoal the first in the order of my work for the season, I proceedet1, immediately after my anival in Section VIII, t-0 the prosecution of that work, upon which I was occnpied nearly six weeks, sounding closely upon the shoal, ruflning nine hundred and twenty-three miles of soundings, making thirty-five thousand casts of the lead, and measuring eleven bundted and twenty-two sets of angles. The shoal within the three-fathom curve extends alnnq the co11st twenty miles in an easterly and westerly direction, an!' hu a breadth of from one to three and a half miles. The western end is the widest, and also the shoal1иst part, with five feet water on it, and bears S. 41 W, from Ra~oon Point, the west end of Iиle Demicre (LasL island) distant thirteen miles. The eastern end is distant eight and a half miles south of the house of Mr. T. Maskell, which -is three and threefourths milesиeaиt of Racoon Point, andиthe first house to be seen on Isle Derniere. ' From its position in the route of rnssels sailing between' New Orleans and Texas, it is very dangerous, partic.ularly in the approach from the wиestward, wber"' it shoals rapiill) from tlnиee fitthonu. This is also the case !l.11 along the northern side of the shoal. The eastern and ROnthern approach is }Ass datlgProus, as the decrease in depth is _gradual. A channel of five and six fathoms-bottom blue mud-extends along the northern side, which would serve is !\'guide to vessels beating between the shoal and Isle Derniere, if they are careful _of their lead-line, and approach the shoal in not less than four fathoms. A light-vessel, showing two lights, iw very juiliciously plac>ed, and securely moored, at the west end of the shoal. six fathoms water, and a bout. a mil" and a quarter north of the shoalest spot, upon which the steamer Galveston was wraed. Bnt the lights con scarcely be seen beyond five or six miles, and are very inefficient for so dangerous a shonl. A light-house npon Rac<>on Point would only serve as a guide to vessels passin$ on the north side of the shoal, and could not be seen sufficiently far by those of a large cla"!l from tj:ie southward. It would be of as little use in the western approach, on account of the distance of Raeoon Point shoal, which. eitends from that point twelve miles in a. W. by S. direction, and would be thirteen miles distant from tire most d1mgerous part of Ship shoal. _ и и .A. good light upon the shoal would serve fol' all the approaches. As a good locat!t+n for thie, there is a spot of.four hundred and fifty liuare metres in area, within the six-foot curve, hard sand bott-Om, near the wreck of the steamer Galveston, where the force of the sea from SE., S., and SW., would be broken by the gradual shoaling for the distance of three and 11 half and five miles within the three-fathom curve. On the N. and NW. the Ra.coon Point shoal prevents a heavy sea., the sea from the westward being the wo1'St, but not so great as I suppose would be raised by the heavy gales of the Gulf Stream, near Sand key and Carysfort reel; .Florida, upon which we ha..-e screw-pile light-houses; and, as permanent light& are preferable to floating ones, when they can be placed at. or near the danger, I would respectfully recommend a first, class screw-pile lightиhouse иio be erected upon this spot, (marked A upon the sketch,) where, in my opinion, it would be aB secure as those upon the ke) s of Florida, and where it would be s(len the whole extent of the shoal. Respectfully submitted by your obedient servant,

Professor .A.. D.

B. F. SANDS, Lieutenant U. S. N., Assistant in U. S. Co<UI $uN1eg.
BAOHE,

Superintendent U. S. Coast SuTTJey.

APPENDIX No. 155.
Letter of tke Superintendent ef the Coast Survey to the Secretary ef the Treasury, communica.ting the report ef Lieutenant J. Wilkinson, U. S. N., assistant in tlic Coast Survey, upon tlu selection of' a rite Ji>r a light-lwuse at Sabine Pau, Texm; also a letter upon the sul!Jf.ct from Lieut. Montgomery Hunt, U. S. N., light-house inszJector.
NEAR Lirnn's STATION, lliwE, Jul11 ll!, 1853. Sia: On the 22d of March last, at the request of the Light.house Board, the S11perintendent of tbe Colll!t Survey WM directed by the department to cause a survey to be made and 11 site selected fur a first-cllllB light-houw, to be erected at $ho entrauce of S&bine river, Texu, for whioh appropria.tiou was mAde in the act of COD&'l'ea8 of .Hauh 3, 1853.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 18118.

*177

On the 24th of that month I issueJ instructions to tbe hydrograpliie rarty in иectinn IX to rnak., said ~uney and selection, and ha\и.:и now the honor to transrnit tlw r<:>port of Lient. Juhn '\"ilkirn=-on C. B. :Ka-vy. on C'oa~t Surv"y f'erYilиe. tho
1

Otti<'f'l" in <'hl!rge of tlw party, and who perfnrmPd the dnty. It will bP perceicииd tliar Lieut. \Yilkineou re(иommei.d>; the erection of the lh:ht-h<>ttse at the point iutlicated on enelos1иd sketch, '" l\"t>ll eakulat1иtl to rnpj>ly the wa.nts of the general coast navi~ation antl commerce, and nut inerely to subserve the lnctil inte,rests. I ham aloo the honor to transmit extracts from a letter from Lieut. M. Hunt, U.S. Navy, and llght-honse insvector fur that district, upon this sub,jt>ct. Lieut. Hunt recommend" that a prntiou of the SU1ll of $31l,IJ(llJ uppropriateJ for this lil:(ht-l1mrnc should be applied to the improvmnenr of the lil!hts in Galveston hay. The board can dedrle upon the utility of thH (иreetion of tl1is light-huuиP, its elass anu .iit.,, ba"<'ing the report of the surrey of the loc~lity, 1md the views of Lieurn. Wilkinrnn and Hunt un the subject, before them. Very respectfully, yours, &c., &c., A. D. BAOIIE, Suporiiitendent. Hon_ Su1u G11T1mu:, Suretarv of the Treasu'71.

Bu.rt VE YING

Sc1100NER "~IottRis,u

Oalvcsto11, Tizas, Jum 2'2, 1BG3.

Sm: I have the honor to report the execution of u reconnaissance tmd selection of a site for a ligbt-houso 11.t Sabine Paии, of which a sketch is herewith enclosed. The proposed sitP, as indicated on the sketd1, an<were, in my opinion, all the eon<litionи r~quired by the law: ~'irRt, because there is " substratum of stiff clay. l!S as<'ntaine<l by boring, rnиeJ\иp f,и,иt lwlow th<> e11rface, affonliur; a firm basis for the building. Second, because the lucal interests of trnrle will !J., materially beuefittиd by irn erection. as 1lic lJ11f may then bo crossБHl, day or night, by a Hhuple cntDJHtFls-bearing. Third, becnnse tl1e g-tиIterul Wftuts of comrnt_иrce ''иill be Enbs.e:rved, as a eertain nwans ol establishing their po~irion will then hP afforded to veB~f'lt:: hound f'itlwr to the PftBtward or \n::;twarfl, nnd because rht:i bar, from its nature, nrny t11rиn he crossed safdy at times wlH~U others on thi~ l'oasr would he iinpasHahle. The light shonltl be <listinctly visible from tLe plane of tLe Jwrizon sixtPt>n miles, RR it would tlien be siglit1иtl hr иesode while in their regular track. 'l'wu irnr10rtant facts eonnectetl with the matter, I mi>ntion: First, the mu'1 on and imide tl1e lrnr is so soft, (tbc lea<l not irnlicating tlrn exact depth) that. a veseel of hea,~y draught can croиs or anchor on it with alisolut<' sr.foty: and, seeond, repeated trialи, hy horing with au iron l'mi, eetahlishPd the fact that no spot can be found on either sidtи of the pasи, nearer to the coast, suitable for the construction of a light-hmrne. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, J. WILKINSON, Lieutenant. Prof. A. D. BACllE, Superintendent Coast Survey, Waskington,, D. C.

a ... LvEsT011, April rn, 1s:-,3.
Sm: I notice, by the report of the Light-house Boan]. that thirty thonsarnl dollars ha" heen apprnpria:eil by Congrnss for the crnction of a light-house at the Sabine Pasи, and tlrnt the reqttisite iufonuution touehillg tLe pnиpnetJ of the expenditure has not been obtnined. !\fay I venture to girn you my reason why sn largии un amrnmr of moJHиy elw~1ld not be thrown away upon snch an unimportant place, and that a part of the nppropriat ion иLould be devoted to the impnHиement of the light-house at GalvcRton 'I There will be shipped from this port, during the current year, over seventy thousand bales of cntton, 1mJ for each succeeding year the incrnase will be rapirl ttml cerLain. '!'here are some two hnn<lrecl miles of coast included in Galveston bay; 11.rul the Trinity rhиer, "ith its tribntari~s, pours its productions into this ialand St'a, a11d conveys the return cargoes w tho most fertiltи portion of Texas. ~lost of the aug-ar, molasses, &r.. , fmm t.he rich bottoms of the Drazos, are brought to this pll!ce either by th1и inlau<l routes or bJ thu coasting vessels, aud shippetl frum the wharves tu all parts of the wurld. Galveston is the medium through wliieh most uf the productions of Texas get to a ruarket, and in "few yeare itc will monopolize the entire foreign tratle, for it will soon be connected with the maiu laud by ruilroa<lo, and itti harbor invite the tra<le oflarge-sized иhips. To give ycm an idea of its comm(иrce, I will remark, that there are three lines of sailing-vessels ltetwl'Nl Galveston and New York.-oue from Boston, one contemplated from Pliillufolphia, and annth<'r from 13altinrnre. A e:rnal uиm be completed in January, which will unite the waters of the Brazos river with those of Galrnsttm bay, and other means will bu taken to encourage commerce and coucentrate it here. In Tei<as fifteen bales of Cl}tton have been produced from the acre, while in Georgia and other southern States oue bale to tbe acre returns a r<'mnnf'ratirn profit. 'With this great ailvautaхe alone, Texas must soon become the great cotton State, and that trade which attaches to this iurnrest must ultimately make GRlnиston a senport of vast impMtance. In short, if Texas ever beeame populated, Galvestt1n must. be proportionally wenlLhy and important. U11on Ibis bar we have thirteen fMt water; at the Sabine there is but six feet, with t.wu feet of sofL mud, making eight foet ut thии utrnoиt limit. A steamer of fourteen hundred tons pasиcs this bar almost daily, and, in couu<иction "иidt othur' of the same size, carries forward the tide of emigration into Texas. These foctи are not new to you, I very well know, but. I mention them lиy tht1 way of reminding you of their importanee, aud to show the necessity for a tirst-claиs light at tliis placии. If tl'l1 tho1mw.J il"!lars, out oftbe appropriation fort.he Sabin<', be devoted to raising a111l impro1'inl! thiи light-house, th., ends of connuerce will be better served than iu crectinJi: a magnificent structure at an out-of-the-way Jllace. You would scarcdv belie"e it when I tell vou thnt there is but one saw-mill anJ a fe\\и mean houses at the Sabine. :Five thousarnl dolian would build as good a light as is required there for the next twenty years: indeed, it will be an absolute waste of money to expend over eight thousand dollars for that purpose. Ga!vestou is getting to b1и the seHport for the Sabine. (there are several small vessllls trading between the two places,) and nothing can pre-rnut it from swallowiug up all the foreign trade west of Vermillion hay. This light ie not high enough, nor lrns it sufficient 1wwer; it eaunot bo seen over twelve or fourteen miles from the bar. In conclusion, permit me to apologize for th.is long letter, trustiug it U1ay Cl}nvcy some information, and aиlvnnce the interests of commerce. With great regard and respect, your obedient servant,
DEAR

MONTGOMERY HUNT, U. S. Na1'y.

Prof- A. D.

B.lCH:E,

Suptrintc1ulcm Corut SUTflCJ.
~3и

178*

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDEN'l'

APPENDIX No. 56.
Letter from. tl1e S11perinte11dcnt ef tlie Coast 8un1ey to the Secretary ef the Treasury, communiaiting the report ef Lieut. Comg. H. S. Бtellwagen, U. S. N., assistant in the Coast Survey, on tltc re-examination ef Aransas Pa.ss, with reference to the nlccssitg and site/or a Ligftt-ltouse there.
CoA.sT SuRVEY STATION, NEAR PHILLIPS, FRANKLIN CouNT1:и 1

iIE., Stptember 5, 1853.

Sm: In conformity with the instructions of the department, a resurvey was nrnde of Aransas Pass, to determine the expedie1wy of pladng a light-boat or a lil(ht-house there. I have now the honor to submit a chart, showing the entrance ns it exiиte<l iu 185J, from the reconnaissance of Lieut. Comg. T. A. M. Craven, U. S. Navy, assistant in the Coast Surи vcy, and as found recently hy Lieut. Corng. H. S. 8tellwagen, U.S. Navy, assist1mt in the Coast Survey. I append extracts from the report of Lieut. Comg. Stellwagen, and refer to the repllrt of Lieut. Comg. Craven which accompanied the annual report of tbe Suхerintendent of the Coast Survey for 1851. (See Doc. 3, App. l'fo. 39, p. 507.) The light-h011>e recommended liy Lieut. Comg. SlPllwagen will probably be of service in entering the harbor after the bar is passed, especially if movable beacons he pr(}vided in C(}nncction with it. It may also benefit the extensive navigation of the coast, if raised sufficiently high, but is not in the best position for that purpose. It can afford no facilities in passing the very shiliing bar at the entrance. Tl1e comparative cliart shows that, while the depth on Aransas bar rnmains nparJy tho same, the channel has changed its position by nearly the whole breadth of the pass in two years. It is plainly impracticable to erect a fixed structure which would guide vessels over the bar. The light-boat proposed by Lieut. Comg. C1иaveu appears to me to be ne1ot,ssary for that purpose. The Light-house Eoar<l will judge whether the commerce using Aransas Faes is sufficient to require both these aids to navigation-the light-boat to guide nmиigators over the bar, and the light-house to enable them to pass up the bay. I would also submit to their better judgment the selPction of the aid to navigation which they may deem most important, from tl1e information now communicated to them, or already in their possession. I would respectfully request that this report be transmitted to the Light-house Board. Very respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. Hon. JAMES GunrnIE, Secretary of the Treasury, Washington.

Co... sT
DEAR 81a: и и .,.

SuRTEY So1tOONJ1:R "MoRRJs,"

Galveston, Jtiay 4, 1853.

*

и

*

*

и

I find the channel has changed materially since Lieut. Comg. Craven's visit; instead of miming out NE. along Ssn Josef, it goes out SE. across what was then the south breakera, and the shifting of the whole pass to the rnuthward and we~tward still progresses steadily-the end of Musluug island washing away, and San Jиosef forming in a corresponding
ratio. From converиations with persons best informed on the subject, I gather that this change has been going on for at least fifteen years, though :Mr. William H. Jones, a gentleman of observation, is of opinion that formerly the pass was some four or five miles furtl1er down, whern there is now a sort of bayou, a creek, or deep indentation of tlie bay, extending into Mustang islaud, and that it workeJ to NE., and is returning to its former situation, which may h~ itR furtllt'st limits of progress in that direction. Time only <~an detennine this point. Eut, in the meanwhile, there can be no doubt that tbe pass, bar, channel and all, are cumtautly removing with a general prog-ression to the southward and westward; 1md thus far my observations and opinion agree with those of Lieut. Comg. Craven. I am of opinion that it would he practica!Jle to erect a light-house on the small island back of the pass, so as to serve as a gui<le, and, with movable bc11cons, to make a rang11> for the bar for some years. I tried the nature uf the ground with nn iron rod some ten feet long. The top soil is an alluvial deposite of mud; beneath that the same, mixed with sand. The rod penetrated rather eaиily for about nine feet, when it reached something prntty :firm, but I suppose it waи only compact sand: but at or above the depth of the channel, no doubt, would be found, as is the bottom in thirty feet water, a very tenacious, compact sort of clay; and I think common or screw-piles would easily make 8 very secure base for t>rectiug n lighthouse. The island, tboug-h little 11bove water-level, never changes or washes, tbey say, and is only about one or on" and a half miles hack from the bar. The end of :Mustang islbnd is CflUiposed of loose sandy hillocks, and washes away some ten or fifteen yards in a year, and San Josef forms abont the same, the point bciug low and bare, and frequently over11owed for one-half or three-fourths of a mile, and on either one a house would have to be placed, some distance from the point. As reyards a light-boat, she would ham to be removed so often on account of sudden changes of channel, that I think tho.t an iron house, even expecting to remove it in 11 few years, would be prefer11ble. A lightиhouse is very necessary here, aoe would be of great and eиsential aid to commerce, not only on acccunt of the growing trade of Corpns Christi, &c., but it would be iuvalunble Rи a land-mark on a coast where there is so mucl1 sameness as to make H;.almost impos1ible to distinguish one plaee from another. Even old traders have heen known to he heating for several days, though absolutely to wind1rnrd of their port, nllt recognising where they were. V cry reapectfully, your obedient serv11nt,

H. S. STELLWAGEN, Lieut. Comg.

Prof. A. D. B.4-cm:,
Supcri11ttitdmt of t/11- Coast Survey, Wasl.ington.

OF THE UNITED STATES G.,OAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*179

APPENDIX No. 57.
Letter ef the Superi11tc11de11t ef the Coast Surrey to the Sccrttary r!f the Treasury, tnrnsrmttmg the report of R. D. Cutts, Esq., assistant in t!tc Coast 8un░ey, 1q1011 the examination and survey oj Point Eui;Бta, California, with reference to the location r!f' a Zig/it-house.
CouT
SuRVE1" STATTON, NEAR

PmLI.tPB, l'>I.uJ<E, September 1. 1853.

Sm: On the 7th of April last, at the request of the Light-hons<' Board, thlи Superintendent of the Coaet Survey wa~ direeted by tlw departllH_иnt to cause an examination and survey 'to he rnade of Point Bonita, California, north r;1<l'и of San Francisco bay, witli a view to the erection of a second-claso ligl1t-house, for which appropriation was made iu thи' liCt of Congress of Marcli 3, 1853. On the 15th of tlrnt month I issued instruction. to the nffict:rs in charire of tl1f' to1и1gra]Jhical nud liydrograpl1ic parLies in Section X, to make иaid examination and survey, and banи now thP lwnor w transmit li copy uf th' report of Ai;sistant. H. D. Cutts. the officer in charge of the party by which the topographical surycy was matle, with aecowpanyiug sketcl1 of tho locality. I concur in the opinion expressed by Mr. Cutts, of the i:reat neceиsity of such a light at Point J3ouit11 to Yt"SSt'lR tkиirous of making an entra11ce inw the Bay of San Francisco, and of the advantages of the positiuu selected over other points at the entrance into that bav. I also concur in the recommendation of :Mr. Cuttи, that the light.J1ouse to be ereeted should he supplied with a fog-lwll or whi.tlc of tl1t1 lari~иest size, which would be a rnluable auxiliary in the foggy season in 1rnrning vessels of their near npproach tu this boltl and rocky coast. Very respectfully, yours, &c.,

A. D. llACIIE, Superintendent.

Hon. Juu:s G11r11Rrn, Swrctary of tke Treasury.

PuLGAs CAMP, SAN FRANc1sco Cou5nи,

July 6, 1853.
DEAR Sm: In accordance with the instructions ~ontained in your letter of the 15tl1 April, I have caused a particular examination to be made of Point Bonita, with a view to the erection thereon of a secondиcluss light.

I send you herewith a sketch of the point, showing the site selected for the proposed ligho-house, its elevation, and its different approaches. Of the necessity for a leading light wherewith t<> find the entrance into the bay of San Francisco, I believe there can be no doubt. Fort Poiut is too far within the l<ellds, and conseqitently embraces too small an arc of the sea.horizon, to be considered or trusted ns such a li11ht. Nor has the coast in the vicinity of the entranct> any such well known or remarkable l11ndmark as could be readily and promptly distinguished during a clear night. The southwest Farallon, alrlwugh Ii valuable auxiliary in the general navigation of the coast, is more useful 1ts showing its own positioa and tbe surrouudrng dangers, than as a guide to the heads. With fill entrance иo broad, deep, and emirely free from hidden danger, there appears to be no rertson why ships should not enter at night whenever an opportunity occurR; and 'et, up to tlrn present time, fow, if any, have done so. This is partly owiug to t.he fogs am! Ii:rht wituls which prevail during tlw summer season after sunset, but more particularly tu the want of a light at Point Bonita, and the leadi11gиi11 lights of J<'ort Point aud Alcatraz island. These two last are now erected. The first is even more necessary and importam. It will gui<le and direct the vessel coming from any direction; and during a clear night in summer, an.I throughout the winter season. would save the delay of many days, sometimes weeks, which vessels have hlc'retofure incnrrt"d by waiting an opportunity to enter by day. In conne:xion with the light-house at Point Bonita, I would call your attention to the neceseity of having place.I thereon a fog.bell or whistle of the largest size. The risk of running on an.I along so bold a coast <luring the foggy season is fully illustrated by the late loss of the clipper ship "Carrier Pigeon," and of the two steamship~ "Tennessee" and '' S. S. Lewis," as well as of the revenue brig "Lawrence." The last three were wrecked while searching for the entrance, aud while within sound of a fog-bell on Point Bonita. The public press, however, have lately taken up this subject, and so many urgent and forcible articles have appeared, and have, doubt.less, met your eye, that it is har<lly necessary for me to say more than that Point Bonita is admirably adapted for the site of a light-house and a fog-bell; that its position, with re~pect to the harbor and general trend of the coast, is prominent, and indisputably the best; and that the imm1>nse nnd valuable amount of shipping seeking the harbor of Sun Francisco dcman<ls, and иhould receive, every aid and safoguardamong which none are so important as such ligho-house and fog.bell. Extreme height of hill above high-water mark, 282 feet: height of site of lil(ht-housc, (summit of hill to h~ cleared away,) 2oi\ feet; height of llmtorn above high-water mark, 28f> feet; distance vitiible in nautical miles, ob~crver elevated 10 foot above sea-lc,иcl, 23 rniles; exteut of sea-horizon, 119''.
Rrftrc,.crs
Oil

>ki'lch.

0-Cirde in black, triengulation point \J. S. lJoast 8unto..v *-Cirele in rnd, and marked L. IL, propo~e<l si1иe for lightиl1tиu.w. A-Bay Landing. 1 H-Southeust Lan.ding. S. 16 1 fi t i __ C-Pond Landing. ca u !le Tilu uvи D-True meridian. I append lierewith tlie re11ort of Assistant A. F. Rodgers, containing the result of hie examination at Point Bonita. I am yours, truly, RICHARD D. CUTTS. Prof. A. D. BACHE, _Superintefllfent U. S. Coast Sur,,ry.

J

180*

REPORT Ol, THE SUPERINTENDENT
U.S. SoRTEYINo ScHoON!!:R "BALTrnom:,"

San Francisco, Ju,ne 14, 1853.
D>:AR Rrn: In aeeori1an!'e with your inиtruetiorrn, I proceeded ro Point Bonita and mode a careful examirnttion of tho locality with nиfercut'<' to 11 'ite for tl1e proposed light-lmu,e. I made a criticlll review of the gelleral survey made in chu regnlar prosPeution of thtи work of th<' Coast, 811rvny, anti have to report that it iи иufliciently minute to answer every purpo8'P, the a.rtai1111ll'Ilf of which \Vould he songht in fi resurvey for the particular object in view. Tl1e htииt "icdtt fnr tit!' light-honи<' i:< inmw<liatPly cnиr of the CoaRt Snrnиy tda11g11latiun roint, known as "Point Rnnit11 " Tlw greater comparativeи eligibility of tl1iФ poeiti<>ll i,, I think, so apparent, when upon the ground, as to leave little laritudtl for the exerciиt' of jntlmnent. ltR advantage O'rnr the point ni'fir it iR in irn gnmwr P.!Avation. while with an и'quully large arc of' clear horizon, Hntl with e<1ual aeceptabilir.y, it is the nearest point to the entrance. thus rendering it a better mark for rns~ds pas<ing the light when thP night is too dll.rk to make the land. Its superior elevation gives it another adrnntng" thnn tlmt simply of greater visibility in dear weather, from the fact that the fogи, so common and troublesome to nssel; Pntering thL< harbor, do not extend more than fifty or one hundred feet above the water; hence it might be po,;иibk' to makФ Point llonita light above the fog from a ship's masthead, when, if it were in a lees elevated po~itirnt, it would be u'eless, Upon reference to the topographical mal' of Point Bonita yon will observe that the formation of the bluff upon the west or ocean Ridt> i" nearly perrendieular, while to tht> e11,stward there is a gradual slope for 11 distance of one hundre<l yards. The particular spot Relectetl for the light-house ie twPnty-eix foet from the edge of the bluff, in a line due. east of the triaugnlatiun point. The proper bearing for tl1e greatest kngth of the light-house is in a north an'd south line, which will pl1we it parallel with thA bluff, and at right-an!(leи to the sl,.pe of the g-round, the latter saving material in building, and lnlmr in digging the foum1alioll. I plaeed "barrel in the g-round, and, filling it with earrh, left it snfficiemly exposed tn bu readily found. This I rroposed to make the southwest corner of the light-house. If, in view of the wearing away of tho bluff, the distance from it shиll lie considered too small, it call be moved farther rn the eastward, without altering the relative expense of building arnl its fonmlation. except in the Il(>Cessarily increased height of the former. In dig~illg, to ascertaiu the character of the rock beneath thu surface of the ground, in two different pl,.ces at depths of four and five feet, l conlt! fin<l no indirиation of its proximity, I examined the face of the bluff upon the outside, and, from that examination, think it safe to say ~hat the rnrface soil is two f.,et in depth, resting upon a sub-st,ratum of reddish clay, which appears to be from tell to twenty feet in thickness. I enclose specimens of rock found on the face of the bluff, twenty ftet below the surface. lt is of the same character as that which forms the base of Point Bonit1:1, but from exposure to the weather has be<'Omll bard and very brittle. \Vhen found henf\ath thP surfa<'il it is firm and tenarions, but so soft as to be easily worked. The dirPctiun of the rocky strata, forming the base of Point Bonita, is nearly northwest; the dip is to the eastward, and pnrallel with thti slope of the surface. I made exarniuationo for a landing and road to the point selected for the light-house. I decided that three landingи were practie11hle, and the marl from each so good as to require in the worst instance not more than an outlay of four hundred dol!arF to make it perfrиctly good. Of these three, (see Sketch,) the Pond landing (C) would be best, if it were no object to wait for smooth weatbn; the road thence, though tlle longest, is much the best, and it could be made a good wagon road for fifty dollars, cutting bf'ing necessary at ono point only, and that for a distance of fifty ynrds, in a clay soil. Tho next landing ( B) is in the SW. corner of Rodier beach, under the lea of a large rock. Here I found, upon two days, scar~ely more surf than is usually found on the leeward shores of the bay in bold water. The road thence would follow for fifty yards the course of a ravine cut by the rains of last winter; this would have to be filled up from the sides of the valley throngh which it runs. During the rainy season. this road would be Jiablu to wash out at any moment, nnless built Ruhstantially, with a culvert to lead off the water. The third landing (A) is on the bay side of Point Bonita. Here the lnnding is better than at either of the other places mentioned, and mer<и certain, at all times, from its better protection. A s1rntheast иtorm only would render it dangerous. A loaded scow could lie alongside of the rocks, if sufficient fenders wPrc used: hut it would he necessary t() use cranes to hoist the loail-a height of twenty-five feet in the best spot found. The road thPnce to the site iA of eaиy grades, aml would re<1uire no improvement. In rPgard to suppliHR of wood and water, I would state that the keeper of the light will always be able to supply himself with goml fire-wood from Rodier beach, without other expense than that of cuttinl( and hauling. After a southeast gale, this beaeh iи strewn with drift-wood, ships' spars, boats, &c. Of the facilities for getting water, I c1mnot speak with certainty; water can be procured by digging anywhere in the wooded valley through which the rnad from the Pond landing run~, The same valley could be cultivated as a garden, and could be irrigated with but little expense. The land belongs to Captain William A. Richardson. His claim is before the land comlllission. I am, very respectfully,

AUGUSTUS F. RODGERS.
RicH'n D. CuTTs, Esq.,

Asaiatant U. S. Coaat Sun;,y.

OF THE UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY FOR 1853.

*181

APPEJ'\DIX No. 6S.
Errata
i1t

tlw list

rif

Geographical Postt1>ms in the Annual llcport discavcred since zlll&lis!u:d.

ef t!u:

Coast Surrc!f Jor 1S61,

Page. i Linc.
I
](i3 lfll

:

I i
.
0

J/,;i

'-,'.'.и) l"

3 o-n 20 17// 2'3 I 3 I ii ::inи.и_-.._~~-.-_::::и.-.-_-_-_-_:::::::::::::::::::::: ! ;v<:1:i: I I
I

1-;-10306079.11
~
~

11'!9 J,.l9 l::iO 180

I

l!iO

mo

:J 3 4 12 fi fi
6

I s 't c k 4JU 4и/ ╗M/ "'I и ~;'_.~sn,1; r;~ ',., ~и :~,:,,:~';.'",_,'

и----====:
For-cio o~и 07" o'--~ '~. . '-----и

I

j

ti:l:>G''7':'.!J6.
V / "'('//

a.1- 4.1 44 ', Scargo Hill 2.'░"~ 4cs 11' --и- и.ииии. , ;,40 4fV 4Y'. til'Rrgo Hill 2340 4tV 11u.

''. ;-,ursun ~ . c rPf'L l 410 ..;.)

.-)1

o-

;.::.),,1;

-иoo и":'i'/ 1"" ,., v .v-1.

mu
UH 194

23 11
Hi

194 217 218 220 220 220 258 258 271 276 286 286
2Bl\

21 0 JD 19 19 1!J 20 9

I
I

17
11 14 17 19 9 21 l9 15 14

286 324 360 372 374 375
:!78 400 400 400 400 400 400 402 404 404 409 416

:1943.7, 4'.312.7, 24G ...... -----и ...... и------ .... ' ;3744 I. 411!14.иL 2.:l:l. rm1:1.:.i, 0341.:1. ;i011 ии--ии. --и-. и----и и------ .... ';,;и,,.и.1>, 1;u 1.:,, :i.47. lli7~iUJ, J lt'.l115.0, ti 71 .......... и-- ... - ......... - : J1.и..,~1:i.2, J 1,.;;2,и,.o, ti.7::!. 3t:l li>.G, 4172.G, 2.37 - - - . - -- - - -- - -- - - . - . и- - --и . -- . ' :l"'4!'.li. 421iH и"'и 2.:lil. e;o45' n░, \V1'иt Chathllm 267042' 02" ........ i 870 ;,~/ ;,4n, "'<>Rt Chatham 2c;o;.;-;; .ff//, Gi'>4G.4, 71 f19.fl, '"1.07 - и - - иии - и - - - -и и -- ии -- - ии - иии - : ():,G7.~. 71 ~\!.3, 4.0.~. li7S!J.O, 74:!4.:3, 4.22 .. -- . - .. - - - .. - - --- --- - . -- - ... : li7!17.IJ, 7 .t:J:l.7, 4.22. 0 1 70и WV 4;-,o, Monk's Hill 250░ OtV 5CV' иииии и-и--и i 3J,.;;o r,,~' :U'', Manomet 1350 lW 55". 1224░ OW47n иии..иииии и----и -----и --иииии-- ---и ! 2040 ll!I' 47". I 71!" 37' 44".G3 ...... -----и ---и и-иии----и ии----и 1 ;oo37' 04".ii3. I f>3".07 и---и----и ---и----ии ..иии. ----и--и-и и---'. 53".114. I 4;p 38' 02".0:3, /(IO 17 1 {)2".:13 ....... ииии. ииииии j 4;JD 37' f,()",59, 7(;0 j(}' 40".00. l 21 '3░ 48' 2()//, Brarnhall's Hill и:.;so 49' OW' .. иии -- . i 21170 ();' :l!J", Hr1unliall'R Hill z;o 08' (}3 I73S.5,19:l3.I,l.09 ..иииииии.ииииииии.ииии.и.ии. 1 nc:i.2.rn2e.2,1.10. Sawpit,s ........ --и- --и---и- ииииииии и--- ии----и 1 Port Chester. , Captain's Island .и.ииииииииииии.ииииииииии..ииии. ' Little Cnptain'slsland. l W.Hul>bel. ....ииииииии..ииии..ии.ииииии..ииии. l'riahHuhhel. [! Kakco~tHil~и----иииии----иииииииииииииииии---и i Ki<'ckoutHill: A'lnackanonk ииии -ии---ии--и и----и и--- и----и ииии , Acquackan1111k. Aquackanonk ииииии и-и--иии-----и-и------------- .A.cquackononk. A11uaclia1wnk -и- иии и-- и.иии - иии -- .иии --и ииии _-- . .A.cq11ackanonk. A'luackanonk ................................... Aequackanouk. 76░ 13' 58',.50 ..и.ии. -и-- и----и .иииии. ------ .ии. 7Go };{' fi8".:~n. ! 38D24'06',.G6 .................................. 31'102H'OG''.56. 04" .t<G и. - - - .иииииииии.ииии.и - и - иииииииииииии - . 04,, .!Jll. 76░14'24".22 .................................. 7GD 14'24/'.33. 45░.G;; ________________________________________ 44".fi5.

i

41G

425 480

---и--'--

19 75░10/ (l8".51 ии----и--------и---и------------и 7;,o 10'10".51. 12 47░[>4' 14''---и-и----ии--и---и--и и-----иии----- i ':.!27░ ,,4и 14". i2 294░ 22, 49//. ___________________ . ____ ---и _____ . I :ti)4o a2' 49 и. 17 124░ 4\V 4tV', Jack Shoal 304░ 4r'.' 54". _.. _ .и. __ . I 940 2'2' 01 ", Jark Slwal 2740 21' 13'', 18 JGtlO 3!Y 02''; New InlPt, North Point, 3480 38' 47" и [ J(i70 38' 20": 1'1f'W Inlet, North Point, 3470 38' 11". 21 94░ 22' Ill" ииJi.ck Shoal 274░ 21' 13" --иии---- ии.. 1240 4!! 48", .Jaek ShoaJ'.304░ 4k' fl4". 22 J 1670 3W 20''; New Inlet, North Point, 3470 :~B' JI". I ]()>< 0 3!l'02"; :Kew lnltиt,North Point, 3480 38' 47". 12 I Little Hill, 520 52' OW' ииииииииии ии----и---и .ии. i Little Hill, G2░ 42' 09". 17 1 11tiu9.u, 12979.G, 7.30 .иииииии ____ и.и. c5on.:~. 711s.1, 4.04. 18 I 6506.:l, 7115.1, 4.04 .и.ии ---- и----- -----и ---и и-и-1 ll'3G9.0, 1:2979.6, 7.38. 17 I t:i1░u5'14".3'2 и----ии-иии-ииии----и-----и-----и s10, 05' Hl".8>. 3 , 14678.7, 16052.2,9.. 12 .. __________ 14613.6, 1.5081.0,9.08. 4 1Sl 0 47' 42", Bia.ck Point 1░ 4W 34" ииииии -----и Jtno 41-l' :35", Black Point JO 48' 40". D 1 237i.1, 2598.3, 1.4tL ии.ии.ии.иии.ии. -----и ии---и 2576.J, 2'.317.1, 1.60. 33 I 4h. 44m. 29.0fis .ииииии --и- .......... ---и ---- --и- 1 4h. 44m. ~Ll.50s.

------и---и-I

--и-и------и--ииi

---~!_____________

ERRATA.
Page

I
I

Line
'

For
I

-:-----

*96 и97 и97 *98 "102 "13.J

421

l:lth from bottom ииииии. Appendix 114 .иииии. ! Appendix 14. , 2d from bottom ...и..ии. и N arren и . . и . . и и и и . . иNarr ion. j 2d under Claиs IL .и..и. I the;~ ....иии.и..и. и then. и ] st under Class III иииии.. poslt1onR ...и.и.ии.. portiom. 1 i 8th from bnt1om .ииииии. I one ..иии.и...иииии. an. '.17th from bott<:иm levelled ииииии..ии.. f bevelled. [5th from top иии.и.иииии. Minutes иJf long. I" и. :Minutes of Jong. l'. I .

!

I

иииии-и1и

!

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.
A.
Abe1иdeen. иwreck of, "164. Abstract of contents of Rrport, ii. Alden, Licld. James. Hydrography Columbia river, Humboldt bay, Crescent City harbor, Ewing harbor, and l:mquah, 78, n1; tides, 79; rescues, 79; report on иwestern coast harbors, иt.f>: Cortez hank, *GG, *GU; wreck of Aberdeen, и JG4, "lG5 : steamer Tennessee, и Iti5. .Alden's Rock, Portland harbor, :35. Almy, Lieut. J. J. Ofi~shore tides. 6, 45, "48, и49: off-shore hydrograpby, Section III, and ()bcsapeake entrauce, 44; shoals, 45, и4~1. '50; Chesapeake hay, 45. .Alp!iabetical Index, "183. .Apalac/1icola harbor and tO\'l'n, 63. .Aran;as Pass. Resurvey, 74, 75; report on, *178. .Arcl<ive:; and library, 85; report on, и66. Army officers ou Coast Survey, 10; list of, *7. .Astronomical observations : Sebattis, 27, 28; Section III, 40, 41 ; Section V, 56; Section VII, 61; Section YlII, 67; Section IX, 71; Western coast, 77: Isle Deruicre, "53. Attakapas plantations, channels, Gerdes on, "54. .Aycrigg, B. Jersey flats, 39. Azim11ths. Seetion I, 27; Section III, 41 ; Section VII, 61 : Section VIII, 67 ; Section IX, 71, 72 ; Western coast, n.

c.
Cambridae. Longitude of, Bond on, *&3, *89. Cape A ;n, Toj>ogrnphy of, 30, :31. Cape Pear rirer. Chan!!eи of entranPe, 11, 54; triangulation, 52; topograj>hy an<l hydrography, 53; resunиey and currents, 54. Cape Lookout. Topography, G3. C11rpe11try shop, 85 . Casco liay, :JI. Charleston. Longitude of, 40, f>6: Gould's report on, *Bf,_ Chcsapwke bay anJ entrance, 45: shoals in entraure, '88, '8\J. C/1ro1wmeter expedition. \I: Bond's rPpnrt, "1'8, *ti~l. Clerical f11r<.e in Coast Survey office, 85 . Coast Suruy. organization, reforences, 13; office, 80; parties, и 1 to иti; vessels, "7 to *11. Cold cvrrcnts, 6. Columbia ri.,er, i9. Alden'R report, и55, Compensatwn of Coast Survey employes, 17. Computing dixision, 8; work done by, 81; report of computations made, и56. Co14gress map, la . Contents of Appendir, iii. Core sound, triangnlation 1 52. Cortez Bank, 7!J ;- "'55, "'56. Cram, Capt. '1'. J. SeeonJarr triangulation, Section I, 29; lieights and co-efficient of refraction, 29. Cra"en, Lieut_ T. A. llf. Gulf Stream Section, 5, 46; hydrography of St.Johns and Fort G~orge inlet, 64; }'lorida repf. 6i░и: ou aitl to tht' \\'illiarn Ga.ton, '164. Cutts, Assistant H.. D. Tria11g-ulati<111 \Vestern coast, i7; Pul~ gas base, 77 : report on Poi1lt Bonita, '"179. Cuyler. Pd. llful. II. JJl. On wreck of Aberdeen, и165; of steamer Tennessee, 4 1U5.

n.
Bache, Professor A. D. Inspections and commissions, 9: observations at Sebnttis and Blue Hill, 27, 28: discussion
of Gulf Stream, 46 to 52 ; letter on bank east of Gulf Stream, и5-0; remarks on Professor Walker's deach, "166; on Lieut. J. :,;. Totten'и death, "I6d; discu,sion of tides at Key \Vest, и71 to -7(J ; discussion of tides at San Fr11Dcisco, "76 to *82. Barataria bay. Gerdes' report on, "51, '52. Barometer, for measuring- heights, 28, 29. Dase of verification, Section I, 27; Section III, 41 ; James river, 42; Rappahannock, 4:.l; Pulgas, i7. Benclt-rnarks for tides, list of, "70. Benkam, Capt. H. IV. Appointed assisrant in charge, 14, 80; examines Minot's ledge for light-house, 33, "171; "Sow and Pigs" rocks for light-house, 34, "17:.l. Blunt, Assistant E. Hudson river triangulation, 37; light. house and N. Y. range-beacon determinations, :J7; "173; primary triangulation, Section III, 40, 41. Boett Chica. Land survey, 64. Boiler deposite, analysis of, *!l9, "90. Bolks, Assistant C. P. Cape Fear triangulation, 52; Smith's Island and Cape Fear topography, 53. Bond, Prof. W. C. 6\' G. P. Longitudes by moon culminations and chronometers, 86; report on ditto, "84 ; spring governor, ~85, и86; chronometer expedition, "l:ltl, и8u. Boone iиland, 32. Battoms, Gulf Stream, examination of, *82, и33_ Boutdle, Assistant C. 0. Reconnaissance, Section I, 27; Edisto and Winyah bay triangulations, 57. BT14ra, Surgeon D. L. liotice of death or, 15, 74.

D.
Daridson, Assistant G. Astronomical observations Western coast, 77; Santa Barbara, 77; topography, 78. Du,,is slwal, 4, a3. Dauphinc island. Topography, 6~; hydrograpby, 69. Detp Hole harbor, rnck in, ~n; report, '"171, и172. Der:dopments and discoveries of Coast Survey for 1853, list of, HJ. Disbursements, 87. Discorr:rfrs. list of, 10; shoalM, 3:'!, 34, 45, 79. Hislanr,cs between stations, list of, и14 to и42. Distribution of Coast Survey parties, list,и 1 to иf,, Drawing di,,ision, Bl, 82; report of operations, и57 to *60.

E.
Edisto, triangulation, 57. Ehctroty]lc operations, 82, 83; in Ordnance office and Depot de la guerre, 83; report of operations, и6J.

Elliott's ke'!/, 63.
Engineers, list of naval, on Coast Survey, и9, и10. EngraTJing ditiision, 8~; report- of operations, "60, "61. Errata, и18'.l.

184*

ALPIIAEE TIC AL INDEX.
Humboldt harbor, 78, иss. Jlump!tnys, C11ptuin A. A. Brevet rccommernled, 14. llunt, Lieutrnant E. B. Charg-e of engraving division, 82; report of engra:ring operntiun8, .Jftill, -#-(jl; litlwgr.nphic duty, Crystal Paltt<'e, 87; notee on lithography, '90 ti) '*!>3; interrauger, ~3, "'i)4; tide~gauge, dtиscription of, '*~4 to иllti; notes on map projections, "ll(i tll и 10:.i. Hunt, Lieulcnant llf. On Sabine Pass, *li7. lfydrography. Se<'tion I, :;:.i; Se~timi II, :kl; Section III, 44, 4F>; Section IV, -Ga, C)4; Section V, f>t); Seetiun YI, 60, 6:l, 64; l:>ection \' 111, 6ll, 70; Section IX, 74, 75; Western coast, 78, 7U; Nantucket, 4; Gulf Stream, G, 46 to 5:.l.

Errata in geographical pMitions of !Rill, и181. Evmis, [,t. A. W. Barometer observations, Section I, 29; tidal computations, tl7. Ewing J1ar/Jor, 7t3.

F.
Fairfield, Sub-Assistant G. A. Barometer ohиervatiom, Section I, 2tl; tide-gauge at Siascun:;ett, 3(i; repnrt of, ~4G. Farley, Assistalll J. SPcondary triar1!l'ltlatim1, Section III, 41; base lneasnre1nent, 41, 4~; Ja1ues river, 4'.2. Florida Krys. Topogrnphy, G;J; Lieut. i'otteu's report on, *601 "'51. Flm-ida lterf. estimate for, 25; signals, Totten's report on, * 173, "174. Foller, Capt. J. G., charge of drawing division, 81, и57; office, 85. Franlиing privilege, 85, 86.

I.
ltiformation furnished by Const Survey Office, 11; list, "12 * 14. lnfusoria: in GulfSrream bottoms, *82, и133, Instrument shop, 1:34, 8f>. Iuterran.!(cr, '*!J.3, ")f94. isle Dcmirrr. Survey, 66; hydrography, G9; Gerdes' re port, ""53, ""51. и

G.
Galmston bay. Rydrograpby, 74; tides, 7u. Gaston, Wm .. disabled steamer, ~164. Gny llead, height of, &e., 30. Geodetic elements used, и 14. Geo,!(raphical positums, table of, 8, "J.t to *42; notes on, и14, и15; errata in table of 18:.>I, "!'!!. Gwrgetoicn Ii.arbor. Trianguhttion, 57'; topography, 58; hydrograpby, 59. Gerdes, Assistant F. H. Sandy Hook and Hudson river, topography, 3"3; reconnaissance, Section VII, 61; triangulation and topography, St. George.'s somul, Gl, G2; report of Barataria bay, "&1, и52; Timhallier bay, "53; Isle Derniere and Ship shoal, *53, "54; .A.ttakapas plantations, channels, "54. Gihson, Captain A.. A. Views of Salem, Newburyport, and Portsmouth, 3G; ch1mge of drawing division, 81 ; report of, "57 to *60. Gilbert, Assistrwt S. A. Topography of Plymouth and Monomoy, 3l!; triangulation of Lake Borgne, 67. Glour:e:;ter harbor, rock tliisCfHt:r-e<l i11, "1'45. Go1tltl, Dr. B. A.,jr. Telegraphic l(IIlgitnde of Raleigh, 40; report of ditto, *86, "87 ; personal equation, 56, и137;
vt-..иlucity of ~ahиanic wa~e, Gfi, и~7.

J.
James Tiocr. Jersey jlats.

Survey of, 41, 42; topography, 43, 4A; hyHydrography, 3t:l.

droх-rrq1hy, 4ri.

K.
Key", Flori<la, 62, 63. Key Largo, li~.

L.
Lake Borgne. TrianQ"Ulation, 67; topography, GS. Lo.titudr,, obиervatious. Secriun I, :.l"l; t\ectiun VII, 61; Secti~m Vlll,Gi; Section IX, 71, 72; \Vestcrncoat:t, 77; li8t uf latitudes, и14 to ~4~. Li/1 rary, BC.; report of, *li6. Li/!Jit~lwusc t>xmninations, 13; SPction I, 3G; Section II, 37, ~lrl, 39; SeNiou Vl, lif>; Section VIII, (in, 70: ~ectwn JX,
7~); \YP~tt!I"U eom;t, ~O; <lin~e\ivn for, ~lflH; Lists-di1o;co~eriPR n111l dr:vnlopm~ntR, 10, 11;

Gri:emrrll, Assistant Wm. E. Topngrnphy from blu au Pied to Lake Borgue, 68; Ship, Dauphiue, awl Pettit Bois islandи, CB. Gulf Stream. Sections and snhmarine rangPs, 5; tPmpemи ture, 6; full discussion, 4G to 5l!; sииctions run, 4!i; Canaveral and Charleston, 46; Ca.pes Fear and Hatteras, 47: ripR, 47; temperatureи, 47 to 4(); effect of seaeons, 4~1; of fonu of bottom, ;,o; Gulf Strerun bands, 50, 51; genc~ral eourse, f,] ; cxaminatiou of Gulf Stream bottoms, l'ourtales, 'tl:.!, 'ti:J.

list of, *'J70. sketches in

H.
lfarrison, Assistant .A.. M. Topography, Vi' est<>rn coast, 77. Ila!->slt~r, Assisltir1t J. J. S. Trhmgu)n.tion 1 St~ction IV, 52; topography, Back bay, f>:L H~iglits, l1y Jcnиl anrl baromPtcr, :ZH, 2(); >crtical angleи aud boiliug water, \W; ~It. \Yashiugton, 20. JJ,,in, Samuel. Disbursing agent, r;;-1, .~7. /ldzcl. Analysis of boiler deposite, 'i19, и90. H.cwston, J.,jr. Report on boiler dt'posite, иa>J, и!JO. Jlilgard, Assistant J. R. Ohиcrvationo, Section I, 1!8: Maи hon's liiver light-house, and Dona, :i,;; ba'e measurement and azimuth, Section III, 41; churgc of computing division, 81; report of computation8, '5{;, и;,1. Horizontal angles, Section I, 27, :m; Section II, 37; Section III, 40, 41, 42; Section IV, 52, f>3; Section V, 57, f>tl; Section VII, 61, 6\;!; Section VIII, 67; Section IX, 73. Horn island Pass. Resurvey, 6\1. Jlrulson riиer. Survey, 37, 38. Huger, Luutenant T. n. Shoal discovered, "46.

report, 11, 1'2, '190; Coast Survey parties, "l to *6; army officArs, *7; navy offiePrs, *'7, *H; naval Pngineers. ff!J, *JO; Cc inst Survey 'V1~ssels, "'i, if~); Const Survey maps and Bketcbes enqrn1иed, *10, и11; CoaRt Survey maps !llld ~ketehes engntYing, * 12; infonn11tio11 furnished, * 12 to и 14: geographical positions, * 14 to *41!; positions snrveye<1 ''n \\'estem coast, "4:1; map pmjection tables, *06 to "Hi3; ti<le-tatles for United ~tates, иi;7 to *70; benchmark" for tideR, и70. Lithography and lithographic transfers, notes on, и90 to
иH~~.

SPhattis, 28; Prrflr hv, "14, и]5. [,ongfcltow, Assistant A.. IV. Topttgrajihy, Section I, 31, 3:!. Lon.,ituhs by chronometers and moon culmina.t.ions, 9, Sil, иti1 : ohиervationи, 40, 5b, fi I, G(i, 71, 7:.l, 77: telegraphic ]nu:;itu<lee, RaJ,.igh, Charleston, New Orleans, 40, 5G, иr;1;, 'r'7; list of longitudes, "14 to и42; etamlard longitwltls, *J;~; ЦiиPree cm inoon (иuln1inations, иd4; Bond on m1111n euhn inst.ions, "d4; Gould's telegraphic report, и86, *ti7; Bond's chronomt>ter expeditions, "88, '"09.

Lowl aUrartion.

M.
Maffitt, Lieut. J. N. Gulf Str!'am Section~, 5, 46; Cape Fear bars, resurvey, 51; V>'iuyah bay and Georgetown harbor, 59. M"!(notic ob.,,:r~aticns. Section III, 41; Section VII, 61; Section VIII, 67; Section ll, 72.

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.
Mahon'a ,.;.,er, light-house, 38. Map for Congress, I :i; printin,e;-office, 83; list of, ptinted, *6t, "63; sold and distributed, tl4, и64, "65; engraved and engraving. "10, *12; projection tableи, '!l6 to и J63. (See Projectwn.) Marrfta's Vineyard. Cliffs, 31'1; Deep Hole Rock, 37, и111, "172. M11tattorda hav. Triangulation, 73; topography, 74. Matliwt, <T., H:!, S:{: rt> port of elfиctrntyping, "ti!. Mctwro/ogical '"Kister. Section I, 2E<, ;!~); Section IX, 72. Minot's l.Jedge. Light-house surver, 3a; r('port on, 'llf170. Mississippi sound. Topography, 68; hydrogrnphy, 69. Ma11omuy, iulet, 10; Point, topography. :l~; sboulil, 34. ]Hoon culminations, Pierce on, "d4; Bond ou, "04. Mointt Blue and Mount Sebattis, 28. Mount Waslиington, height of, i!9. Rappolumnork rirer.

*185
Triangulati,.n, 42; hydrography, 45;
=11-4~-

Palmerиs reconnaissanee, 4t, "'47,

Ruon1wissw1cc, Seeticm I~ ~7; H.appalumnock. 42, и47~ "'4R; Section V, Prince's, from Cnpc l,eur riYcr to N. San~o river, 55; SeNion VII, (iJ; Seeti<>n YIH, Gerdes', 65 to 6b, и51, ~52, *53, и54; Section IX, 73; Wes tern coast, i6, 78, 79. R<c.nds, publication of Coast Survey, urged, 16, 17, 26. Rtjraction, cиo-etfi1иient of, ;!9. Reports, ( иee Scimtific.) Report of Coast Survey, printing order, 1; distribution, 84; list, "65. Rio Grande. Survey, 7 4, 75; tides, 75. Rips, 4, 3:~; ripples; 47. Rodgers, A. P. Report on Point Bonita, и180.

N.
Nantucket иkoals, 4, 33, 34. }{assau 'roads, resurvey 1 G9. NatJy offecers on Coast Survey, 10; list of, *7, Nиw inkt, changes in, 11, 54. New York harbor. Range-beacons, 37, "173. Noner, IV. H. Notice or death, 15. Notias puhlis/wJ., 12.

s.
Sabine Pass. Survey, 74, 75; reports on, "176, ~177. Sttnds' k<'y, 63. Sands, Lina. B. F. Hydrograpby Section VII, Ship ohoal, Horn Island Pass, Jli 11ssdu roads, Mi@siиsippi sound, >md lJauphine island, 69; report on Pascagoula rher, и17&; Ship shoal, *176. Snndи Hool<, 31'. San Luis Pass, 74, 75. Sa.,,.annah river. 'l'riaugulation, 58. S"xlon, Jtfr. Jos., 8:'.: tide-gauge described, "94 to "96. Sc1БNTIFIC-Ilrports, tulilcs, S,иc.Analysiи of a d.-posite iu the Hetzel's boilers, *89. Lithography and lithogr1tphic transfers, *!JO to *!J::!. Jnterran!fer, a new optical instrtl!D<'Dt. и93, '94. Lrmpitude. Prof. Pierce on longitud<'и by muon culminations, и84; Bond on ditto, и,,i I; Dr. B. A. Gould's report on longitudes by tl'iegraphic signals, "tlli, "B7 ; G. P. Bond on chronometer expeditions for longitude of Cambridge, иss. *89. Tables-geogrttphical positions, or latitudes, longitudes, azimuths and distanceи, и14 to и42; Proj,,ctwn taMu for maps, with notes, and various fluxiliary tttbleи, "96 to и 163; tide-ta.bk for the United States, aud tide bench-marks, "67 to и10. Tides, Prof. A. D. Baehe's discussion of the tides at l{ey \Yeиt, и71 to "76; ditto at Sau Francisco, "76 to "1' l; tide-table for United States, and bench-marks, *67 to ~10. Tide-gauges. Description of Saxton's self-registering gauge, $94 to '96; Fairfield's exposed tide-gang~, ~46, и47; off-shore gauge. и-to. Gulf Stream. Prof. Baclw's discussion of its exploration, 46 to 52; L. P. Pourtales' examination of Gulf Strca.m bottoms, ~B2, 4d:~. Screw-pi.ks. Florida reef, и173, "174. Scbattis, Mount, observations on,~~Sectwns of Caast Survey. Organizat\onof, 16; limits of, и14; snmurnry of work in each, 17 to 21; estimate for each, 22 to 2ii ; Section I, synopsis of work for the year, 2(i; Section II, 37; Section III, 39; Section IV, 52; Section V, f>4; Sections VI and VII, 60, UI ; Section VIII, w, 66; Section IX, 70; \Vestern coast, 76. Setcard, Lieut. A. H. Hudson river triangulation, 37; Section III, 41. Shtiw, T. E., to Lient. Craven, иw4. Ship иlwals. Survey of, 69; Gerdes' report, observations and tides, и;-,:3, "a4; Sands' report, "li6. Slwals. Sounded out, 3:l, 34, "46; Chesapeake entrance, 45, "49, и50; Cortez Bank, i9, *5i:>, 0 56. Siwek, G. E., notice of death, 15. Shore-line, changes in, 30, ::l l, 3.:l, 68. Sketcb.es. List of, eng1иaved and engraving, "10, '"12; ill this report, 11, 12, *JOO; printed, '62, "63; sold ao.d diatributed, и64, и05, Smith's isl.arul_ 'l'opugrapby, 53. Soldier luy, 63. "Sow and Pigs" reef, 30, 3i ; report on, 0 172. Spri"lf gounwr, Bond on, и85, ~-

иs, '9.

0.
Office Coast SIL"''!fи ganization, 80.
Work in, 80 to 87; expenditures, orOfficers on Coast Suroey. Army, 10, "7; nav'J, 10, '7 to "9; naval engineers, 10, иg, и10. Off-slwre и01mdings, 4, 5, 44; tides, 45, "48, "49. 01.d Rlwdu key, 64. Ord, Capt. E. O. C. S_avannah river triangulation, 58; Western coaAt, 77. Organizatwn of Co&.St Survey, 9; office, 80.

P.
Palnur, Capt. Wm. R. Rappahannock triangulation and base, 42; reconnaissance of ditto, и47, и10. Pap#-r, thin, for maps, 83; cloth-ba!'ked, 84. Partitos, diotribution of Coast Survey, и1 ttJ *6. Pascagattla ri,,er, survey, 69, 70; report on, *175. Pay of Coast Survey employcи, 17_ PcRrlleton, Prof A. G. Longit11de computations, 86. Personal 'AJuation, Section I, :kl; Gould on, 56, "07. Petit Bois island, 68. Pierce, Pr"f B., on moon culminations, 86, '84. Plymouth. Topography, 3:); hydrography, 35. Point Bonita, 80; reports on, "17\J, *180. Portland liarhor. Topography, 31; bydrography, 3". Pourtales, Assistant L. 1'. Telegraphic longitudeи, 40, 56; tidal party, 86; longitude party, 87; report on tidal computations, иffi; examination of Gulf Stream bottoms, 47, "82, и83. Prince, Maj. H. Reconnaissance, Section I, 27; from Cape Fear river to N. Santee river, 54; Winyah bay triangulation, 57. Printing, order of Congress, 1 ; maps, fl3, "62, "63. Progress of Coast Survey, 3, 4. Projution tables for maps, with notes, и96 to и163; projectio1111 classified and defined, и96 to "98; Mercator's, "98; Bonne's, "98; polyconic, Coast S11rvey, и99; formulre *100; lillt and explanation of the tablee, "101 ; graphi~ constructiona, "lll'l; tables, и103 to и163. PubliuUioи of Cua.st Survey records, 16, 17; estimate for, 26. P"'tfu baMi, 77.

R.
Ra~ bUWJu, New York harbor, 37, и173. BaW/lfи iutnmunt, "93, "94.

186*

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.
Trbmgulatitm.

[Total pageи 278.]

St. Gearges, survey, 63. St Jt1hns. Triangulation, 62; topography, 64; bydrography, 64. Station errors. Sebattis, 28; general, *14, *Hi. Stc//wagen, f,ieut. Jr S. Nantucket shoals, 4, 33; Capo Ann, Minot's I.edge, Morthu'и Yiueynrd, 33; Secti<1n 1X, San Luis Pass, 74; Atиansas Pa<s, 7иl, 7fi; letter on surfboats, "4S; Gloucester R<>ck. *4,); shoal in ocean, *46; :Minot'и ledge, и110, #171; Aransas Pase, "178. Steocns, llfajor I. I. Reиignи aи assistant in d111rge, 14, 89; on Prof. Walker's det<th, иrn7. Stevc1'S, lireut. T. 11. Cortez Hank, 7\l; rPpQrt of, '56. Suifhoats. Webtion of, Section I, 3.~; l'r<,t: Bache and Lieut. Woodhull on, ии!3, и44; Prof. Bache and Lieut. Stcllwagen on ditto, и44, '45. Sy1wpsis of Report, 3.

Soction I, '27; Section II, 37, 38; Section HI, 40, 41; Section IV, 52, 53: Section Y, 57; Sections VI and Vll, ti I, 6:1; Section VIII, 67; Section IX, 7:J; Western cottst, 77; facilities for on Western coast, 7 ; proceии of, * J 4. Trotchrid!fi!, Lieut. TV. P. Triangulation James river, 41; Western consc tides, 79, 80.

u.
[fmquali river, 79, и()5.

v.
T"an Dure>t,
7

T.
T«le of geogrnphical positions, latitudes, Jcmgitudes, azimuths, distances, и14 to и42; projection tables for maps, '96 to иJ63; tide-tal>le for United States, "67 to и70; bench-matиks, и10. Tcle,r;rtip/1U. fongitwlcs. 40, :i6, и86, 0 87. Titus, th1иee typeи of, 7, 8: discussion of, 8: data, 7; offshor~ oh8ervation.~~ '1 1 45 1 *4,.,, "49. (Observations iu Section 1, 3G; Section II, 3R; Section III. 44, 45; Section IV, 54; Secti"n V, 59; Section VI. 61i, {jJ : Section VIIl,66, 70; Section IX, 75; Western coast, 7ti, 7!J, 1"lll.) ( 1'itial party, 86, 87; report. of computations, "f>ti ) ( Tule J:!nttge, exposed, Nautu<"kииt, Fairfield'и, 36, и46, '4i; offshore, "4i:l; Saxfon's self.registering, description of, "'J4 to и!16.) Tide-table and bench-marks for the United States, и67, *70. (Prof. Bacbe's discussum of tides at Key \Vest, "ii to и76; at San Francisco, *76 to "Bl.) Timballier hay, 67; Gerdes ou, и5:1. Tup11grap!iy. Section I, 30 to 33; Section II, 38; Section III, 43, 44; Section lV, 53; Section V, 58; Sections Vl and VU, 6:J to 64: Section VIII, 68; Section IX, 74; Westtиrn coaиt, n, 78. Totten, f,ieut. JamES. Triangulatiou Key Larl(O and Key West, 6:t; Florida kcys,иao, иst: r~efsignals, и173, и174. Totten, Ueut. J. s. Trirmgulation Winyah ~bay arnl Gf'\Orget<1wn harbor, 57, 58; death, 58; notice of, 15; tribute to
~~

Luut. n. T. Hudson river triangulation, 38; Rllppahnnnock river, 42;. base, 42.
Secti-0n I, 27.

1 ertUai mufles.

Velocity o(galvllJlic wave, 513, и87.

w.
!Fainrcright, Lieut. R. Hudson river hydrogrspby, 38; James ri"er, 45; Rappahannock river, 45. Wulker. Prof S. C. Longitudes, 9; bis death, 15; tribute to, '166, иJ67. Jfrquohsky tl\tfs, encroa.ehed on, 30. Tficst, Suh-Assistant B. F. Death of, Iii, i3; tribute to, "168. Western co,,st. Hydrographic reconnaiиsance, 6; estimate, 25; summary of work on, 76; list of surveys of headlands, .._\,c., "'43; htt.rbors on, *fJ5. Wl1iting, Assistam H. L. Topography, Section I. 30. Wilkinsnn, Lieut. J, Rio Grande, 74; Sttbine Pass, 75; report of, и177_ Williams, Assista>tt J. S. Triangulation Section IX, 73; topography, 74. Winy"/' hay. Trinngulation, 57; hydrography, 57. Wisc, Assistant G.D. Topography Section III, 43. Woodhull, Lieut. M. "Sow and Pigи," Monomoy, 34; Dиep Hole Hoek, :l4, #f71; Portland and Plymoutll llarbors, and Alden 'a Rock, 3G; Jersey Flats, 38, 39; Romer shoals, 39; surf-boats, 35, и43; "Sow and l'igs" reef, и172.

'

Y.
York harbnr, Me.

Tutten's key, 64. 1'racings furnished, иrn to и12. Trans}ии, lithographic, notes on, "90 to и93.

Yulee, Prof E.

Topography, 32. Computation of moon culminationи, 'i!l.

LIST OF SKETCHES.
No :.l. Alden's Rock. No. 3. Minot's ledge. No. 4. Davis' South shoal. No. 5. Sow and Pigs reef. Sketch of progress. Section II. No. 2. Rornl.'r and Flynn's shoals. 8. B, No. 3. Sandy Hook cb11u,ges. 9. C. Sketch of progress, Seotion III. JO. C, No. 2. Seacnast of Virginia, No. 2. 11. C, No. 3. 'Vach~preague, Macbipongo, and Metomkin inlets. 12. C, No. 4. Preliminary иketch of Cape Charles IUld vicinity. 13. C, No. 5. Cherrvstone inlet. 14. C, No. 6. Preliminary sketch of Pungoteague creek. 15. Gulf Stream, No. 1. Gulf Stream explorations. 16. Gulf Stream, No. 2. Diagrnms of Gulf Stream oft' Charleston, &e. 17. D. Sketch of progress, Section IV. 18. D, No. 2. Progress of survey of Cape Fear and vicinity. 19. D, No. 3. Cape Fear riv~r and New inlet. 20. E. Sketch of progress, Section V. 21. E, No. 2. Cape Roman shoals. 2"2. E, No. 3. Preliminary chart of North Edisto river. 23. E, No. 4. Sketch of progress, Savannah river. 24. F. Sketch of progress, Section VI. 25. F, No. 2. Preliminary chart of the entrances to St. John's river. 26. F, No. 3. Sketch of progress, Cedar Keys, Bahia Honda, &c. 27. F, No. 4. Tidal diagrams, Key West. 28. F, No. 5. Tidal diagrttms, Key West. 29. G. Sketch of progress, Section VII. 30. G, No. 2. Middle or Main and West entrances to St. George's aound. 31. H, Sketch of progress, Section VIII. 3"2. H, No. 2. Horn Islnud Pass. 33. H, No. 3. Entrance to Pascagoula river. 34. H, No. 4. Preliminary reconuaissance of the entrance to Barataria bay. 35. H, No. 5. Preliminary recouneisиance of the entrance to Timballier bay. 36. H, No. 6. Preliminary chart of Ship Island shoal. 37. I. Sketch of progreBB, Section IX. 38. I, No. 2. ReconnaisslUlco of Sabine Pass. 3H. I, No. 3. Galveston entranoo. 40. I, No. 4. Preliminary chart of San Luis Pass. 41. I, No. 5, Reconnai8Bllnee of Aransas Pass. 42. J. Sketch of progress, Sections X and Xf. 43. J, No. 't. Reconnaissance of the Western coast from San Francisco to Sao Dil'go. 44. J; No. 3. Cortez Bank. 45. J, No. 4. San Diego entrance and approaches. 46. J, No. 5. Preliminary sketch of Santa Barbara. 47. J, No. 6. Progress of survey of San 1''rancisco bay and vicinity: 48. J, No. 7. Tidal diagrams, Rincon Point. 49. K. Sketch of progress, Columbia river. 50. K, No. 2. Preliminary survey of Shoalwater bay. 51. K, No. 3. Reeonnaiasance of the Western coast from Gray's harbor to Admiralty iDlet. 52. K, No. 4. Cape }"lattery and Nee.ah harbor. 63. K, No. 5. Reconnaisaaoee of 1''alae Dungllue11 harbor. 54. Self-regiaterilig tide-gauge.
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6 7.

A. Sketch of pr"gress, Section I.
A, A, A, A, B. B,

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey

Please Note:
This project currently includes the imaging of the full text of each volume up to the "List of Sketches" (maps) at the end. Future online links, by the National Ocean Service, located on the Historical Map and Chart Project webpage (http://historicals.ncd.noaa.gov/historicals/histmap.asp) will includes these images.
NOAA Central Library

1315 East-West Highway
Silver Spring, Maryland 20910

