I

J
ANNUAL REPORT
O F TH E

,. . )

SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
TO TH E

SECRETARY OF COMMERCE AND LABOR
FOR THE

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1912

WASHINGTON GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFiCE 1913

----------

- - - - - - ·------·

--··----·--

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey
ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink _ Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library, the Office of Coast Survey and the National Geodetic Survey. To view the original document please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 x124 or www.reference@nodc.noaa.gov.

LASON Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387 March 22, 2005

Blank page retained for pagination

CONTENTS.
Pago.

General statement.B of progress ............................................. . IIydrographic work ................................................... . Geodetic, magnetic, and tidal work ................................... . International boundaries .............................................. . Special surveys ...................................................... . Dangers to navigation ................................................. . Office work ........................................................... . Office of Inspector of IIydrography and Topography ........................ . Office of Inspector of Geodetic Work ...................................... . Office of Inspector of Magnetic Work ...................................... . Appropriations and disbursements ......................................... . Publications ............................................................. . Economy and efficiency .................................................. . Personnel. ............................................................... . Vessels ....................................... ···· .... ·· .. · .. ·············· Triangulation of the Yukon River ......................................... . Details of field operations .................................................. . Details of office operations ................................................. . ILLUSTRATIONS.
1. Distribution of the principal Mtronomic stations occupied to June 30,

5 5
6 7

8 8
9

10 12

15

17
18 19 19 19

20 20
94

1912 ............................................................. In pocket. 2. Positions and connections of telegraphic longitude stations to June 30, 1912 ............................................................. In pocket. 3. Hout.es of geodetic spirit leveling and positions of gravity and tide stations to June 30, 1912 ............................................. In pocket. 4. Positions of magnetic stat.ions occupied to June 30, 1912 ............... In pocket. A. Sketch of general progress, eastern sheet ............................. In pocket. B. Sketch of general progress, western sheet .............................. In pocket. C. Sketch of general progress, Allll!ka ................................... In pocket. D. Sketch of geneml progres.~, Hawaii, Porto Rico, and Canal Zone ........ In pocket. E. Sketch of general progress, Philippine Islands ......................... In pocket. F. Chart showing organization of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1912 ...... Page 4. 3

..:..

CHART SHOWING ORGANIZATION OF THE

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
1912

SUPERINTENDENT
0. H. Titfmann

----~ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT
F.W. l'ulrins

DISBURSING
Scoff Kesbit

Oi&b#n1°119 Apnt

w. 8.Cltilfr1n
Etlifor

EDITORIAL

GEODETIC WORK

Wm.Bowie
ln·pecfrJr

MA6NmCWORK R l.Fori·
ln·pu:for

HYDROGRAPHY g TOPOGRAPHY J J. Gilbtrt
/no,,.UOr

PIULIPPINC SURVEYS PAWellrer CHART CONSTROCTI D 8.1"1inwr/F' Cl!i1f t1F p;,,;.,..,, CHARTS
ATll~on

COMPUTING
ll'm/Jowic

Cltief of OinsiOll

INSTRUMENT £ 6. fi·cltlr C!tlsl oF01rnion

Cl!RfSTRIALMACIUISll IU.F<1ris Cltielof Oinsion

Director

ll BRARY &.ARCIUVES

Cltit:FoFOirisirm

HM Bro""'
CNdfof OiY1Slon

TIDCS L.P Shit(y Cllief oF Oi.,aion

TIDAL RESCAllCH H.A."'7ms C!tieF oF Section

REPORT
OF THE

SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
DEPARTMENT OJ<' CoM.MERCE AND LABOR, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY,

Washington, Augu,st 13, 1.912. Sm: I have the honor to submit the annual report of progress in the Coast and Geodetic Survey for the fiscnl yenr ended June :rn, Hl12. It is accompanied by maps illustrating the general advance in the field work of the Survey up to that date.
GENERAL STATEMENTS OF PROGRESS.

The work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey during the fiscal year continued in accordance with the geneml plan adopted of first completing the original surveys of portions of the consts not yet adequately charted, giving particular attention to localities where the interests of cominerce are more important, nnd next making resurveys of localities where changes are found to have taken place in natural or artificial features or where the original surveys were not sufficiently extensive or in sufficient detail to meet modern requirements.
WfiS

HYDROGRAPIIIC WORK.

The investigation by means of the wire drag of hidden dangers previously undiscovered is pr~b!ibly one of the most important developments of modern hydrogrnphic surveyin()', and tho systematic examination of the principal harbors and cfiannols by this means will afford an additional safeguard to navigation und an ussurancc of the correctness of the minimum depths given on the charts. During the past year wire-dmg examinations were mude on the coast of Maine, in Block Isln.nd Sound, in the approaches to the P1mn,ma Canul, and in San Luis Obispo Bay, Cul.
ATLANTIC COAST.

In the regular hydrographic work two steamers nnd one schooner were employed on the Atlantic coast, besides one steamer employed for a portion of the year in gathering infornmtion along the southern coast for the correction of the Coast Pilots and charts. Another party was engaged in mnking an exuminiition of the inl1ipd waterways between the capes of the Cliesapeuke nnd Key Wost with
5

6

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

a view to the publication of detailed sailing directions and the correction of the charts of the inland passages, which are being improved by the United States Engineers and are now much frequented by small vessels. Several land J.larties have been engaged in surveys and examinations for the revision of charts of the Atlantic and Gulf co1uits.
PACIFIC COAST.

On the Pacific coast the fleet of four steamers and two launches was employed during the summer season in surveys on the coast of Alaska, and during tho following winter months on the coast of Washington. One steamer was engaged during the winter in a survey of the entrance to the Panama Canal. Several parties were also engaged in surveys for the revision of charts on the Pacific coast.
GEODETIC, MAGNETIC, AND TIDAL WORK.
INTERIOR R1'ATES AND TF.!UUTOIUES.

In the interior States and Territories, four parties were engaged in work of reconnoissance and primary triangulation, one on secoi1d11ry triangulation. and two in revision of triangulation, two in running lines of precise levels, one in determining latitude and longitude, and one m determinations of tho force of gmvity. Magnetic observations were made at five regular observatories and by six parties engaged in magnetic observations on land. Magnetic observations at sea were made by vessels of the Survey incidentally while engaged in their regular work. Tides were observed at IO permanent stations and temporarily at many other points in connection with hydrographic surveys. Current observations were made at various points along the coast. In this work the Bureau of Lighthouses cooperated. Observations to determine the variat10n of latitude made under the direction of tho Superintendent for the International Geodetic Association were continued at two stations in the United States.
OUTLYING TERRITORY.

Hawaiian IslarUls.-The survey of the island of :Maui was nearly completed. Tidal observations made by the Territorial government are furnished to tho Coast and Geodetic Survey through the courtesy of the Surveyor General of Hawaii. A permanent magnetic observatory is maintained by the Coast and Geodetic Survey at Honolulu. Porto Rico.-A permanent magnetic observatory is rnnintained by the Coast and Geodetic Survey at Vieques, P. R., and some field magnetic observations were made. No other work was done on this island. Philippine lslarUls.-ln the Philippine Islands surveys were continued by one vessel of the Coast and Geodetic Survey and four vessels assigned for the purpose by the insular government, and by parties working on shore. The usual operations were conducted by the suboffice of the Survey at Manila.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

7

The steamer Patlifinder was engaged in surveys on the southeast coast of N egros and on the east and southeast coast of Mindanao. The steamer Fathomer was engaged in work in the area between Tablas, Panay, Masbate, and between Romblon and Masbate Islands; 1dso between Punay and Mindoro and the Calimanes and Palawun Islands. The steamer Romblon made surveys in the area bounded by the islancls of Luzon, Burias, Mas bate, Sibuyan, an<l Tablas. Tho steamer Marinduque was employed in Basilan Strait, Iligan Bay, and Ro.gay Gulf, southwestern Luzon. The steamer Research surveyed in the area bounded by Samar, Leyte, Bilaran, and Masbate Islands. · .One party was engaged in triangulation work on the island of Mindanao and another in magnetic observations on the island of Luzon.
INTERN ATION Al, BOUNDARIES.

The survey and marking of the northern boundary lino between the United States and Canada, and of tho boundary oetween Alaska and Canada on Portland Canal and on tho one hundred and forty-first meridian, are carried on by parties in the field under the direction of the Superintendent, as commissioner representing the United States, and Mr. ¥l. F. King, as commissioner representing Great Britain, the American and Canadian parties either working together or on alternate sections of the line. In tho latter case it has been arranged that each Government shall be represented in the party of the other by officers detailed for the purpose by tho commissioner of each Government, respectively, in order to have an independent check on the work done.
UNITED STATES AND CANAllA DOUNDAHY.

In the survey of the boundary lino between tho United States and Canada tho following progress was made: The party employed on the boundary between Maine and Now Brunswick continued work in tho region between ·woodland and Vanceboro, and from the lower end of Grand Lake to tho mouth of Monument Stream. Some triangulation was also done in North Lake. In the meanwhile a Canadian party was at work on Mud Lake and Ch!Jrntnoticook Luke. On the sumo boundary a second party completed tho survey in the valley of tho St. Francis River, about 18 miles of the boundary, not inclu<lin~ work by the Canadian party in the field at tho same time, and made about 4 miles of line measurement to the southward and westward of Luke Pohenogamook. In the section of the boundary between Pigeon River and Lake of tho Woods, separating the State of Minnesota from tho Province of Ontario, surveys were completed from Pine Lake to Sagagana Lake,· a distance of approximately 30 miles. A Canadian party, to which an American surveyor was detailed, operating on the boundttry between North Dakota and .Manitoba and Minnesota and Ontario, made about 120 miles of progress, from monument No. 170 on Turtle Mountain to monument No. 70 west of and near Red River, and from the Northwest Anglo Inlet, Luke of the Woods, to below the mouth of tho inlet, a distance of about 3 miles.

8

.REPORT OF SUPERINTENDl<~NT, COAST AND c;gODETIC SURVEY.

Ono party engaged in triangulation and mouumcnt settiug on the boundary hne between Manitoba and Montana, North D11kota, and Minnesota, begun work about 40 miles east of tho cast brunch of Poplar River and closed operations in the nc~ighborhood of Short Creek, a distance of approximately 100 miles; work wus carried on also from the vicinity of Emerson, Manitoba, west of the Hod River, eastward to monument No. 47, a distance of about 25 miles. Another party engaged in the topography and vista cutting of the same section of the boundary line completed tho work from the cast fork of Poplar River to monument No. 29, a distance of about 124 miles, and from the vicinity of Emerson, Manitoba, to monument No. 31, a distance of 34 miles.
ALASKA BOUNDAHY.

A Canadian party, to which an American surveyor was attached, engaO'ed in the survey and marking of the boundary line on Portland Canal separating Alask11 from British Columbia, placed in position 22 reference monuments, the sites of which were determin0<l by triangulation. A topographic survey of the region adjacent was bPgun. Two parties have been at work on tho Alaska boundnry in the Mount St. Elias and Mount Natazhat region, one engaged in triangulation un<l the other in topography. This portion of the one hundred and forty-first meridian boundary survey remrnins to be done. On the northernlart of the one hundred un<l forty-first meridian boundary between laska and the Yukon Territory, about Hi4 miles of the boundary were surveyed and monumented. Tho line projection was carried from station "P" of the boundary to station "Y," on the last high ridge overlooking the Arctic Ocean.
SPECIAL SURVEYS.

R~q_ues~s were.: received during tho year fo~ special surveys in many locaht1es, mcludmg amon~ others the followmg: Alaska: Landlocked Bay, Kuskokwin1 Bay, Kasaan Bay, Culross and Esther Islands, Prmce William Sound, an<l Sheep, Simpson, and Gravina Buys. California: San Luis Obispo Buy and Alameda Creek to Robe"rts Landing. District of Columbia: Levels around ·wnshington .Monument and line of Florida A venue. Georgia: Ossabaw and St. Simons Sounds. Maryland: Trial course at Cambridge. New York: East end of Long Island Sound,· Dnvids Island, and .Manhasset Bay. Massachusetts: Essex River. North Carolina: :Meridian lines at various county seats; fishing grounds, Currituck and Albemarle Sounds; and Davidson Creek. Rhode Island: Coasters Island and Narragansett Bay. Washington: Seattle Harbor, and trial course at Port Townsend. Virginia: Mattaponi and Pumunkey Rivers, and Thimble Shoals. ·
DANGERS TO N'AVIOATION.

Some of the dan~ers to navigation that were discovered, locutcd, or investigated durmg the year uro as follows: Alaska: Determination of dangers in Kasaan Bay; locution of rock off Cape Hinchinbrook on which tho lighthouse steamer Arrneria was wrecked; examination for a rock reported between Nttked and

REPORT OP SUPERINTENDEN'l', COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

9

Smith Island in Prince William Sound; development of foul ground It miles northwest of Little Smith Islands; search for a rock off Copper Mountain Point in Landlocked Bay; development of tt rcport0d shoal in Fritz Cove; a kelp patch with 11 least depth of 4 fathoms found between Alcks and Omida rocks; examination of the locnlitics of the reported l..t·onard nnd Anderson rocks; search for a reported rock and shoal near Capo Pankof and for a reef rPported at the entrance to West Anchor Cove; location and development of a shoal reported on a line between Aclwrk Harbor and Amugat Island; discovery of several submerged rocks off the northeast point of Kalgin Island; discovery of 11 4-fathom patch nenr the southwestern pomt of Point Alexander; discovery of a shoal or rock about halfway between Scotch Cap Lighthouse and Middle Point. California: Location with wire drag of dangerous pinnacle rocks in San Luis Obispo Bay, uron which several large vessels had struck; location of rock at Port Harford. Canal Zone: Location of rocks in approaches to Panuma Canal. Florida: Location of wreck of schooner Wm. R. Wilson, steamer Hannah M. Bell, and an unknown schooner on Florida Reefs. Discovery of a rock in main ship channel, Key West Harbor. Chnngps in channels and depths determined in Nassau Bay. Maine: About 300 rocks or shoals found by wire drap: on the coast of Maine, including a number of importnnt shoals in "0st Penobscot Bay between the two lines of islands extending north from Robinson's rock and Mark Island, respectively; location of the position of a wreck southeast of Gooso Island and of numerous prnnaclo rocks between CompaL;s Island and Mark Island; v0rification of soundings on Bass Island; determination of a ledge and rocks off Yarmouth Island. New York: Location of several rocks adjacent to Fort Slocum, Du vids Island. Virginia: Revision of depths in North Channel, entrance to Chcs11peake Bay, showing important chang<'s, the <'xt0nsion of Nautilus Shoul, and the disappearance of a 17-foot spot previously existing; verification of soundings on the Tail of the Horspshoc Shoal. Washington: Survey of the bar and cntrnnce to Willap11 Buy, showing extensive changes in shore line, depths, locution of channels and shoals.
OFFICE WORK.

The work of the office includes, besides administrative cktails, nil operations necessary for the preparation and publication of charts, coast pilots, tide tablPs, notices to mariners, reports und sl)ecial publications, except printing and binding, which is done at t 10 Government Printing Oflice. Theso operat10ns include the reduction and plotting of results obtained in the field, computing, <lruwing, cngravlllg, lithographing, photographing, electrotyping, and chart printing. lrn,trumonts used by the field parties arc repaired und in some cases ~onstructcd in the office, which has a complete equipment for mechanical work. The proceeds of sales of chur~s and publicnti?ns during the year amounted to $14,315.82, and m1sccllancous receipts (work done for outside parties, sale of property, etc.) to $1,190.76, making a total of $15,506.58, which was duly covered into the Treasury.

10

HEPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF HYDROGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY.

The Inspector of l lydrography and 'l'op<wraphy supervises the field work of the parties on the surveying vcssc~s and all other hvdrogrnphic and topographic work, including Coast Pilot work in" field and ofl!ce. He pn;part's plans for field work and the inst_ructions for the clucfs of parties and recommends approval of estmmtes und changes in personnel on the vessels when necmisary. He conducts the routine work in connection with enlistments and makes an administrative examination of the accounts of the vessels. He reports monthly the progress of work under his dir<'ction and the status of the enlisted force and of employees not under civil-service rules. He also personally inspects the repairs of the surveying vessels on the Atlantic coast. Work done in the oHice comprises compilation of Coast Pilot, proof reading, co1TPcting existing editions, and miscellaneous d<>tails. The field work <lone by the Coast Pilot parties is rcfrrre<l to <'lsewlwre in this report.
VESSELS A:N'D PARTIES.

Atlantic coast.-The steamer Bache was engaged in hydrogrnphy in the vicinity of New Ground Shoals and The Quicksands nnd Rebecca Shoal on the coast of Florida; search for reported shoals off Brunswick, Ga., in vicinity of Diamond Shonls Light Vessel, and off Hunting Island and Cape Romain; offshore hydrography between Delaware Bay entrance 1rnd Chesapeake Bay entrance; hydrography of entrance to Winyah Bay, S. C.; hydrography of entrances to Do boy and St. Simons Sounds. The Bache was undergoing repairs from August 29 to September 3. The steamer Endeavor was engaged on hydrographic work in Chesapeake Bay in the vicinity of Tangier Island and Kedges Stmi t; off Cape Charles; Tail of the Horseshoe Shoal; and resurvey of Elizabeth River from No1folk to the entrance to the canals. Repairs were made between August 29 and September 5. Tho steamer H11drographer was laid up at Curtis Bay, Md., during tho greater part of the year. On Ai:ril 13 she was taken to Baltimore for minor repairs, and on April 26 smled from Bnltimore for Key West, Fla., Yia the inland route from Norfolk to Beaufort, N. C., to ~.--.!rn up the field revision of Coast Pilot, Volume VII, which work was in prog;ress at the close of the year. The schooner Matchless hns been employed on the revision of the survey of the York River, Va., and of its tributt1ries, the P11munkey and 1\fottaponi. The survey of the Mattaponi River was completed June 10 and the vessel /)roceeded to Baltimore for repairs, which began June 27. The }rfatch ess was under repairs at BnJtimoro also from July 1 to August 7, 1911. A wire-drag party was engaged during the summer in work in the vicinity of East Penobscot Bay, Mc., and during the winter in the approaches to the Panama canal. In tho spring work was begun in the channel between Montauk Point and Block Island, N. Y. A revision was made of the triangulation of Casco Buy, Me., and the positions of aids to navigation determined.

REPORT OP 8UPRUI~TENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

11

Revision of triangulation, topography, and hydrography was continued at Cape Neddick Road, Mo., southward to include York Hnrbor, and on the coast of Massachusetts north of Capo Ann. An officer stationed at Now York City has been engaged in the inspection of the coast in the district from New London, Conn., to Pluladclphia, Pa. Tho revision of surveys between Cape Chnrles and Cape Henlopen, in progress at the beginning of the fiscal year, was completed on August 8, and work wns begun on the rcvis10n of the triangulation and topography of the Delaware River from Bridesburg to Trenton. Except when detailed to duty with the Mississippi River Commission or other special duty, an officer of the Survey has bNm engaged tlu·oughout the year on the chart revision of Greater KPw York. This officer was also designated by the Department of Commerce and Labor to serve as a deleg:~te to tho meeting of the luternationul Congress of Navigation at Yhilndelphia in May, Hl12. An examination to obtain data for sailing directions and to supplement tho information on the charts was made of the inland waterways between the Capes of the Chesapeake and Key West, Fin. At the request of the North Carolina Fish Commission, nn officer was detailed to replttce the buoys and beacons marking the limits of fishing grounds in Cron tnn and Pmnlico Sounds. An officer of the Survey has continued on duty in cooperation with tho Maryland Slwll Fish Commission, in the prepnrntion of reports, charts, and other data for publication. Somo ass1stuuco was nlso rendered to the Fish Commission of tho State of Delnwarc. A resurvol of the shore line and udj11cent hydrograpliy nt Dnvids Island, N. 1: ., wits made at the request of the olficer in conunnnd at Fort Slocum. Pacific coast.-Tho steamer Explorer wns employed on a surYoy of the Kuskokwim River, Alaska, during the season of Hill and ngain in ~912. This vessel wns undergoing repairs from July 1 to 5, Elll, and 111 Fcbnrnry, 1912. The steamer Uedne11 made a survey of Willapa Bay entrance, "'Wash., and was engaged on the survey of 't-Vnwgell Strnit and Tongnss Narrows, Alask11. Some minor repairs were mude during the year. The steamer Cosmos and launch No. 117 were employed in connection with the Gedney. Tho steamer ~McArthur was employed in surveys on tho west side of Cook Inlet, Alaska. During the spring tho vessel wns repnired nt Seattle and Winslow. A speed trial course in Port Townsend Bny was measured in complinnce with a request from the Navy Department. In June, 1912, a survey w11s rnttde of the water front of Douglas and Treadwell, G11stine1tu Channel, Alnska. Work wns afterwards begun between Resurrection Bay and Cook Inlet. During the season of 1911 the stc11mcr Patterson was at work in the vicinity of Dolgoi nnd Sannak Islands, Aluslrn. A search was made for the Leonard and Anderson rocks. The vessel wns afterwards employed on a survey of tho approaches to tho Punmna Cnnnl. The Patterson was undergoing extensive repairs from .Tune 4 to the close of tho fiscal yenr.

12

HEPORT OF' SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVF.Y.

The steamer Taku completed the surveys in the vicinity of Naked, Peak, nnd Storey Islands, Prince William Sound, Alaska, made n search for a reported rock and developed a shoal near Little Smith Island. Work wtts nlso done at Green Island and in Landlocked Buy. In June, l!ll2, the position of the wreck of the lighthouse steamer Armeria, near Cupe Hinchinbrook, Alaska, wns determined. Regular surveying work in Prince ·William Sound was in progress at the close of the year. The steamer Yukon was engaged in the survey of Cook Inlet, Alaska, south of the 'Vest Foreland. Work was resumed in Alaska in May, HH2, and was in progress at the close of the fiseal year. A wire-drag examination was made in San Luis Obispo Bay, Cul. Chart-revis10n work wus done at Los Angeles Hurbor and Port Harford, Cal. In October, 1911, a party was sent to the Hawaiian Islands to continue the revision of the triangulation and topography. Work on the island of Maui was in progress und nearing completion at the close of the fiscal yenr. The collection of Coast Pilot Notes for the I-lnwaiian Islands was completed, and the notes have been pu hlished. An ofllcer stationed at San Francisco has served as insp~ctor for the coast of California and has also had charge of the San Francisco suboffice. An officer stationed at Seattle has performcd similar duty for the coasts of Oregon and Washington and has supervised the repairs and outfitting of the vessels of the Survey employed in Alaska. Philippine hlands.-An officer of the Survey detailed to duty as director of surveys, with headquarters at Manila, has direction of all field work in the Philippine Islands. The details of this work will be given elsewhere in tins report. The steamers Pathfinder, Fathomer, Marinduque, Research, and Romblon have been engaged in that work. Of these vessels all except the Pathfinder are the property of the insular government, which provides the crews and kee:ps the vessels in repair. The salaries of the officers and the runmng expense, including outfit, are paid by the United States.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF
GEODET~C

WORK.

The duties of the Inspector urc largely performed at the office. He prepares plans and instructions for field work, drafts correspondence with clnefs of field parties, examines records, computations und reports, and scientific discussions based upon tho results of the field operations. He also aids the Commissioner in some of the details relating to the surveys of the boundaries between the United States and Canada and Alaska and Canada, and inspects the records and reports of the officers engaged in that work. One month during the fiscal year was given to tl1e inspection of parties in the field. Remarkably rapid progress was made in the work of reconnoissance for primary triangulation of the arc extending along the one hundred and fourth meridian from Denver, Colo., to the Canadian

ImPORT 01<' SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEL

13

bound1try. This work wus begun May 2, 1911, and closed August 10, 1911, during which period 720 miles of recon:noissance were completed, 300 miles of which was done after June 30. In tho main scheme there are 74 stations and in the supplementary scheme 23. Provision wus made for the usual connection with other systems of triangul1ttion and with State boundaries. Following this work a reco1moissance wo.s made for primary_ triangulu tion to extend from the transcontinental triangulation in Utah to the Texas-Califomia arc of primary triangulation in the vicinity of Needles, Cal., a distance of 310 miles. Provision wo.s made for connection with stations and monuments of existing surveys. The time occupied in this work was one month and six days. A reconnoissance wus then made for a scheme of primary triangulation to extend from the oblique arc in tho vicinity of Huntsville, Ala., to Memphis, Tenn., a distance of 232 miles; following which a reconnoisance was made for a primary traverse from Memphis to Little Rock, Ark. The length of this .reconnoissance is 123 miles. The reconnoissnnce from Huntsville to Litt.lo Rock was mado between November 8 1 1911, and February 29, 1912, a period of 3 months and 22 <lays. Tne total length of reconnoissance was 965 miles. In May, 1912, observations were begun on the primary triangulation near the one hundred and fourth meridian by two parties Working from the northern and southern ends of the arc, respectively. A signal building pnrty precc<led the observing po.rtics. An event of tho your wus tho completion of the scheme of secon<lnry triangulation from Tncomo., by- way of Graxs Harbor, to Willapa Bay, Wa.;h. The area covered has long been m need of an adequate control for surveys and maps. This chain of triangulation is 140 miles in length, and all of the observing was done <luring the fiscal year. This was a diflicult piece of work, owing to the very high timber, fog, rain, and the great amount of smoke from forest fires. The triangulation was completed on the Neuse River, N. C., which was necessary to connect the work of the United States engineers affecting navigation with that of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. Two parties were engaged in the revision of triangulation on the coast of Texas during a portion of the year. Several parties engaged on chart revision and hydrography also did some work of triangulation. At the request of the General Land Office, the latitude and longitude of a pomt near Copper Center, Alaska, were determined by two cooperating observers. Longitudes were determined telegraphically by the same parties at stations in Fort Stevens, Oreg.; Jarillu., Boracho, Stanton, Matagorda, and Sabine, Tex.; and the astronomic latitude was determined at six stations of the Texas-California arc of the primary triangulation. An important event of the year was the completion of a three Years' campaign of grav!_t_y determinations, during which 77 stations Were established in tho United States. Prevfous to 1909, when the recent gravity work wns begun, only 47 stations in this country had been occupied with the invariable pendulums. During the fiscul year 1912 gravity determinatiops were made at 18 stations.

14

P8PORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AXD GEOOgTIC SURVEY.

The Jllw of pr<'cise levels from El Heno, Okla., to Goffs, Cal., was completed during the yeur. It furnishes a second und almost independent connection between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean. Excellent progress wus mado on the line of precise levels from Brigham, Utah, toward San Francisco, Cal. Work on this line wns begun in July, 1911, aml by the close of the season 302 miles of levels between B1-jghum, Utah, and Beowawe, Nev., hnd been completed. Work on this line was resumed from the Sun Francisco end in .Murch, 1912, working eastward, and by the end of the yettr about 300 miles of leveling had been run. The Su-rvey has made a contribution to geodesy in the publication entitled ''The Effect of Topography and Isostatic Compensation upon the Intensity of Gravity' (Special Publication Ko. 10), which wfis available for distribution in May, 1912. A preliminary report on this subject was submitted to the International Geodetic Association at its meeting in 1909. In Special Publication No. 10, the new method of making gravity reductions (in which topography an<l isostatic compcnsution are considered) is explained at length. and the necessury reduction tables arc given in detail. The results of this investigation supplement and agree with the results obtained from the investigations by this Survey of the deflections of the vertical, which were published as "The Figure of the Earth and Isostasy, from Measurements in the United States," and "Supplementary Investig11tion in l !l09 of the Figure of the Earth and Isostusy." A second investigation of the effect of topography and isostatic compensation has been made by this SurYey, using a11 of the 124 stations now avnilablc in the United States. The results obtained from this investigation nre in close agreement with those of the first investigation, where only 89 stations were used. The most important result given in the latest publication is the derived value of the flattening of the earth when the new method is used. The value agrees remarkably well with the generally accepted best values of the ffottening, although in the present Case tho number of gravity stations Used IS small nnd the range of the latitudes of these stations is only about ?4 °. The manuscript of a report on this latest investigation is now m press. There is also in the hands of the p1mter the manuscript of the following publications: "The Texas-California Arc of the Primary 'l'riun~ulation," ''Geodetic Operations in the United States, 19091912,' and "A .Manual on the Determination of Time, Longitude, Latitude, and Azimuth." Three appendixes relating to the triangulation wore published in the Supermtllndent'B annual report for the fiscal year 1911, viz, "Triangulation nlong tho Ninety-eighth Meridian, :Nebra.'.llrn to Canada, with Connection with the Groat Lakes," "Trian9,ulation along the Ninety-eighth Meridian, Seguin to Point Isabel, fexas," and "Triangulation along the East Coast of Florida and on the Florida Keys." An enlarged edition of tho "Formulre u!l(l Tabios for tho Comrmtntion of Geodetic Positions" was prop~reJ. tind published durmg the year.

REPOHT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AXD GEODETIC SUHVEY.

15

OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF MAGNETIC WORK.

Tho <lutics of lhi8 ofiico aro tho planning of magnetic work to be carried out in tho United States and its outlying territories; tho inspection of the magnetic work in tho field und at tho magnetic obscrvutorios; to recommend changes in tho personnel and salaries of tho magnetic obHervors; to recommend tho construction or purchase of now magnetic instruments or alterations of old ones whon required, or tho designing of now ones; to recommend changes in the design of instruments or methods of observing to secure hotter results or save time, und to supervise tho planning and construction of buildings for magnetic observatories. It wus not found necessary to make any inspection trips into the field or to any of tho magnetic observator1c,; during the year, except to tho Choltenhmn ?lfognetic Observatory, which was visited and inspected twice during tho your. All other inspection work during tho your wus performed at tho office through the current oxamin1ttion of records and reports from chiefs of magnetic parties and others ongaged in magnetic work. The necessary instructions and detailed information woro given mag-netic observers for their ~uidanco in tho proper oxocuti.on of tho held and observatory work and computut10ns. Tho magnetic observatories ut Cheltenham, Md.; Tucson, Ariz.; Honolulu, Hawaii; Sitka, Alaska; 1md Vioques, P. R., woro in oporation throughout tho your. Seismogrnphs wore kept in operation and metoorologicul observations wero mudc at nll the observatorim;. Special rnpid-rato registration wus curried out on spocifiud term days each month in conformity with roqm·sts for internn.tional cooperation in connection with tho English Antarctic ExJ?odition and with tho Austrnlusian Antarctic Expedition, both of wluch wore still engugod in magnetic obsorvationn.l work in tho antarctic regions at tho close of tho fIScal year. Instruction in magnetic work wns given at Cheltenham to Mr. Lincoln Ellsworth, who is preparing for the Crocker Land Arctic Expedition to be sent out noxt summer. At the same observatory a number of magnetic instruments wore standardized for the use of tho Survey.
l'llAG~ETIC

WORK ON LAND.

Tho mugnotic olomonts (doclination, dil)' and horizontnl intensity) Were determined at ovor 300 stations. T 10 stations wore distributed in accordance withJ)resont needs over :32 States and Territories, and ?utlying islands un or tho jurisdiction of tho United States, as shown in tho following titblo. About 60 stations wero reoccupied during tho your for tho purpose of obtaining data for mnfotuining an adequate knowledge of tho secular change of the magnetic olemen ts, especially of the magnetie declination. Spuciul parties worked in Porto Rico and the Philippines for this purpose.

16

lU:PORT OF 8UPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC 8UHVEY.
su~rnAHY 01' RE8ULTS OF MAGNETIC \VonK ON LA1'1J.

States.

I.ocal ·1 !tics." , Stations. !tics retlon occupied. results.
I

,~Id local:-~ccllna-.

1'cnncsscc_ ........ -................... -.. .
Washington ............................. . West Virginia ............................ . Foreign countries ........................ .

New York ............................. North Carolina ........................... . North Dakota ............................ . Ohio ..................................... . Oklahoma ............................... . Pennsylvania ............................ . Philippine Islands ....................... . Porto Rico .............................. . South Carolina ........................... . South Dakota ............................ .

i~;:+

gEri-::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Alabama ·................................. Alaska .................................... : Arkam-as ................................ ·' Califontia ..·............................. · 1

16·-,---1-6 - - - 1 ---1-0
30 I 1 . 21 3· .521 1 10 14 4 1 9
4

----;1___
s / 1 3 4 54 1 10 14 4 l 9
8

D-l . res u s.

ft

I

! . Into~: slty results. 16 5 1 3 4
53 I 10 14 4 1 II
G

:io 1 2 4 54 1 10 14 4 1 9
4

4 1 2 3 6 1 2 1 0 1 0
1

:i2 1 3 4 53 1 10 14 4 1 9
9

I ···1

12 13 8 G 5 7 1 9 3
15

~~g'i:iiii".·:.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

7 14 5 18 21 7 1 1
5

12 13 8 0 8 7 1 9 3 15 7 15

1 0 0 1 4 1 1 I I 10 7 1

12 13 8 6 8 7 1 9 3 15 7 1.5

12 13 8 G 8 7 I 9 3 15 7 15

12 13 8 G 8 7 I !I 3 15 7 15

5
19 22 7 1 1
8

1
3 2 0 0 0

5
19 22 7 I 1
9

5
18 21 7 0 1
10

5
18 21 7 0 l 10

I

4

Total. ............................. , - 305 - - m , - - - 6 - 1

-m--zJ6j---;g;

MAGXF.TIC WORK AT SEA.

The magnetic work done at sea during the year by the vessels of the Survey was, as in past years, incidental to the regular work upon which they were engaged, and the magnetic observations were made when the vessels were cruising to and from their working grounds, or where opportunity offered on their working grounds. The following table shows the amount of magnetic work carried out on board the vessels of the Survey during the year:
SUMMARY 01' RESUl,TS OP MAO:SETIC WORK AT SEA.

r-- - )~~Ui!s fr~m S\;lng~:-/______ Vessels. General reg.Ion. .
I

.. ,
i'

Hes~lts
rrom course observations.

I Intention. · slty. - - - - - - - - - - 1 · ----I Decllna-1 Dip
8

~~~~~~~~::: ::: ::::::: ::::::::::: -1.: : JL::: :: ::::::::::::: Fathomcr. . . . . . . . . Philippine Islands. . . . . . . .
_ _ Total. - - - - - .. 1
___

~lt~~~~,~~~~:: .. ·:::.:::: ·:: · :.::/·i;a,;ff,~· o'CeB.ii:::::::::::::

Bache ............................ J Atlantic Occnn. .... .. . . . . .

~g

i ...... ·~- ... -..
1

···· ···s.:1·

7!

71. -.-··· ···

·· · · · ·

·:i3· :: : :: :: : ::
_g_

2 · · . · · · ... ·····.·.····.·.·.··. 1

11::::: --::~

74,

.~o _ -~91

_____ ~

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

17

All of the vessels in the service which are suitable for it are instructed during each season's work to make such magnetic observations, especially of the magnetic declination, as there is opportunity for doing-, either at sea or on land, where the weather cona1tions and the reqmrements of their survey duties permit. The Bache on the Atlantic coust and the Patterson and Explorer on the P11cific coast are supplied with ship dip circles for the determination of dip and total intensity at se11. The two latter ships are also equipr>ed with m11gnetometers for magnetic work on land. During the last few years many declination observations havo been secured in tho inland passages through British Columbia and southeastern Alaska. A v11luablo series of results at sen. wero also obtained on the recent trir> of the Patterson to and from her season's work at Panama. Sevenil shore stations w0re made at Panama, and two swings of the ship were made in Panama Road and vicinity. Tho results of magnetic observations made by the Coast and Geodetic Survey at the time of the solar eclipse of April 28, 1911, were prepared and published in the Journal of Terrestrial Magnetism for .March, 1912, as was also the list of principal magnetic storms which were recorded at the Cheltenham Magnetw Observatory. Tho inspector of Magnetic Work was on special duty representing tho Department as a nwmber of a committee, appointed at the request of tho President's Commission on Economy and Efficiency, to examine into the duties and organization of tho Life-Saving Service and the Bureau of Lighthouses. He also represented the Department as a member of a Joint board recommended by tho Secretary )f tho Navy to consider the question of uniform dimensions for tho National Ensign an<l Union Jarlc By direction of tho Superintendent ho consulted with tho authorities of the New York Shiplrnilding Co. for tho purpose of obtaining information of the location of the obstruction which" the Arlcansas stnwk in Two-Bush Chn.nnel, Me., when proceeding to the builders' speed trial.
APPROPRIATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

Tho appropriation for the Coast and Geodetic Surve:Y for the fiscal year ended Juno 30, 1912, was $1,005,120, divided as follows:
Field expenses ........................................................ $317, 400 Repairs and maintenance of vessels. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40, 000 OffiC'cra and men, vessels.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 245, 000 Salaries: Sup<>rintcndent and field force ..................................... . 160,200 Offico force ...................................................... . 192,520 Office expenses ....... _................................. _........ . 50,000

The statement of disbursements required by lttwto be made annually to Congress and published as a sepurnte document gives an account of the names and numb('T of <'mploye0s of different classes employed on t~10 work, the amount of their s11lury or compensation, tho length of ~Ime employed, to whom liuyments were made under the different Items of appropriation an< on what account, and the balancPs left of tho amounb:i upproprin.tetl for the fiscal year . . Tho Disbursing Agent of thll Survey also disburses the greater portion of the appropriations made to tho Department of State for the
67901°-13-2

18

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

survey of the Alaska boundary and of the boundary lino between the United States and Canada.
PUBLICATIONS.

The following publications of the Coast and Geodetic Survey were received from the printer <luring the fiscal year 1912:
Report of Superintendent, showing progress of work, July 1, 1910, to June 30, l!Jll. 52 maps (!J in pocket), 38 p. of maps, 3 I. 58!J pp. Results of magnetic observations made by Survey between July [1], 1910, and June [301, 19JJ; by ll. L. Faris. [App. 3, Report l!Jll.] 84 pp. 'l'riangulation along 98th meridian, Nebraska to Canada, and connection with Great Lakes; by William Bowie. 12 maps. [App. 4, Report l!Jll.] 186 pp. Same, Seguin to Point Isabel, Tex.; by A. L. Bafdwin. 8 maps. LApp. 5, H.eport 1911.] 74 pp. Triangulation along east coast of Florida and on Florida Keys; by II ugh C. Mitchell. 23 maps, 8 I. [App. 6, Report 19ll.] 172 pp. 'l'ide tables, [calendar] year 1912 [with list of references]. 2d edition. ii. 538 pp. Same, 1913. ii. 542 .PP· Tide tables for Atlantic coast of United States, including Canada and West Indies; from Tide tables, [calendar year] 1912. ii. 181 pp. Same, 2d edition. ii. 181 pp. Same, l!Jl3. ii. 181 pp. Tide tables for Pacific coa.st of United States, with foreign port.a in Pacific Ocean; from Tide tables1 [calendar year] 1912. 1G5 pp. Same, 2d cdit10n. 1G5 pp. Same, 1913. 165 pp. United States Coast Pilot, Atlantic coast: pts. 1, 2, St. Croix Hivcr to Cape Ann; [by S. M. Ackley, assisted by E. A. Anderson and John Ros.q]. 3d edition [revised by Herbert C. Graves, asBisted by C. L. Warwick and E. Vance Miller]. HJl 1. ii. 2 maps. 200 pp. Same: pt. 31 Cape Ann to Point Judith; [by Edwin II. Tillman, ai;sisted by John Ros.q]. 3d edition (revised by Herbert C. Graves, 11BSisted by C. L. Warwick and E. Vance Miller!. 11. 2 maps. 166 pp. Same: pt. 4, .I5oint Judith to New York [supplement to 5th edition]. Mar. 11, l!Jl2. 7 pp. Same: pt. 5, New York to Chesapeake Bay entrance [supplement to 4th edition]. Mar. 13, l!Jl2. 7 pp. Same: pt. 6, Chesapeake Ilay and tributaries [supplement to 3d edition]. Aug. 10, 1911. l!J pp. Same: pt. 7, Chesapeake Bay entrance to Key West [supplement to 3d <·dition]. Oct. 10, l!Jl 1. 30 pp. Same: pt. 8, Gulf of Mexico from Key West to Rio Grande [supplement to 3d edition]. Oct. 12, 1911. JG pp. United States Coast Pilot, Pacific coast: California, Oregon, and Washington [supplement to 2d edition]. Mar. 12, l!Jl2. 8 pp. Same: Alaska, pt. 1 [supplement to 5th edition]. .Mar. 20, 1912. 13 pp. Coa.st pilot notes on ifawaiian Islands. Feb. 21, l!Jl2. 57 pp. Results of observations made at magnetic observatory at Cheltenham, :\Id., l!J09-l0; by Daniel L. Hazard. 11 pl. !J3 pp. Same, Baldwin, Kans., J!J07-0!J; by Daniel L. Hazard. 15 114 pp. Same, Vieques, P. R., l!J07-08; by Daniel L. llazard. !J p . 3 text fig. !J8 pp. Same, Honolulu Hawaii, 1909-10; by Daniel L. Hazard. 11 pl. !J5 pp. Survey of oyster bars, description of boundaries and landmarkR, and rPport of work of Survey m cooperation with Bureau of Fisheries and Maryland Shell Fish Commission [by C. C. Yates; each with largo map]: Baltimore County, Md. 42 pp. Kent County, Md. 130 pp. Queen Annes County 1 Md. 176 pp. St. Marys County, Mo. 203 Supplement to chart catalogue. Nov. 15, l!Jll. 6 pp, Fonnulre and tables for comrutation of geodetic positions, 5th edition; with preface, by Charles R. Duvall. (Special publication No. 8.) !Jl pp. Distribution of magnetic declination in United States, Jan. 1, l!JlO, with isogonic chart and secular change tables; by R. L. Faris. Map. (Special publication No. 9.) 14 pp.

rl.

pp.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEOJ;;>ETIC SURVEY.

19

Effect of topography and isostatic compensation upon intensity of gravity; by John F. Hayford and William Bowie. 9 maps and chart.8 (5 in pocket), 11 text fig. (Special publication No. 10.) 132 pp. Inland waterway, Atlantic coast. [Dec. 15, 1911.l 2 pp. Sailing directions, Philippine Islands, Sections V!-VII, 3d edition. Sailing directions, Philippine Islands, Section III, 4th edition. 180 pp. iling directions for Philippine Islands, Section IV, 4th edition. 201 pp. Philippine Notices to )fariners, 1911, Nos. 4, 5, G, 7, 1912, No. I.

Severn! other publications were in press at the close of the year. The total cost of printing and binding, including blank forms and miscellaneous job printing for tho year, payablo from tho appropriation for printing and binding for tho Department of Commerce and Labor, was $31,267.82. Tho Annual Hel>0rt of tho Superintendent, beginning with the present rrport, wil be restricted to matters of administration. Tho results and discussions of tho work which formerly appeared as appendixes to the annual report will hereafter be published in separate form only.
ECONOMY AND EFFICIBNCY.

Much time and labor were devoted to the preparation of information called for hy tho President's Commission on Economy and Efficiency. Several officers and employees served on joint committees composed of representatives of tho Department and of members of tho President's C01runission, as the results of the work of which various clrn.nges in methods and processes have been recommended and carriCll into effect. A revic;;ion of tho regul11tions for the government of the Coast and Geodetic Survey has been nearly completed.
PERSONNEL.

Tho personnel of the service, particularly in the case of tho younger officers and employees. is continually changing, owing to various causes, chiPf among which are tho higher salaries offoroll in tho entering grades by other Departments of tho Government and by private employers. The frequent r<:'signation or transfer of employees trained in the service and the substitution for them of persons educationally qualified but inoxi:iericnced i<i often the cause of considerable embarrassment and a distinct loss of efficiency, as much of the time of tho experienced officers and employees is taken up in trnining ~tew appointees. Tho remedy for this condition is to be found only l1l tho ostnblishment of a uniform system of compensation in the Government service for employees engaged in tho same class of duties. Tho demands on tho Survey are constantly increasing, the present force is inadequnto for current requirements, and the salaries in. many grades are below tho rates paid for similar service elsewhere. Increases have hrrn asked for in tho estimates submitted for tho next fisenl year and should be approved if it is desired that the service bo maintained in tho highest state of efficiency.
VESSELS.

Many of the vessels of tho Survoy are old, requfring frequent repairs in order to keep them in condition for service. Tho npproI>rrntion for repairs of vessels is barely sufficient to meet the current

20

REPOHT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

requirements and is inadequate when extensive repairs are required. The steamer Pathfinder, of steel construction, employed for many years in the Philippines, has deteriorated to such an extent as to endanger her safety, and a special appropriation of $20,000 has been asked for repair of this vessel.
TRIANGULATION OF THE YUKON RIVER.

An addition to the item of n.ppropriation for furnishing points for State surveys has been included in the estimates for several years past, for the triangulation of the Yukon Hiver in Alaska as a _permanent basis for topographical, geological, and land surveys m that region. Attm1tion is again directed to this matter, the importance of which i-; such as to call for special action on the part of Congress.
DETAILS OF FIBLD OPERATIONS.
UNITED STATES. ILLINOIS, INDIANA, KENTUCKY, OHIO, AND WEST VIRGINIA.

(J. R. ilENTON.)

STATIONS occurrno.-Illinois: Belvidere, Cairo, Hennepin, Jacksonville, MorriA, Pekin, Springfield, Virginia, an<l \Vheaton. Indiana: Cannelton, Knox, La Gmnge, Logansport, Marion, Monticello, Muncie, Nashville, Rising Sun, Salem./... Scott..sburg, Tipton, Versaille~, and Vevay. Kentucky: Carlisle, Henderson, and raris. Ohw: Marietta. West Virginia: Elizabeth.

Between July 1 and September 11, inclusive, observations of the three magnetic clements-declination, dip, and horizontal intensitywere made at the stations named above.
ALABAMA, ARKANSAS, CAI,JFORNIA, COLORADO, MISSISSIPPI, NEVADA, TENNESSEE, UTAH, AND WYOMING.

[J. S.

IlILllY.]

SuMMAHY OF' HEflULTs.-Reconnoissance: 39,540 square mileR of area covered, 316 lines of interviAibility determined in main Acheme, 101 lines of intervisibilit.y determined in Rt1pplementary scheme, 133 points selected in main scheme, 43 points selected for supplementary scheme, length of main scheme 1,188 miles, 123 miles of reconnoiR&tnce for traverse line, 24 tmverRe AtationH selected. BaHc line prepared for merumrement, 9,GOO meterA. Trian1pilution: 57 observing signals and scaffolds built and slut.ions marked. These Btatist1cs indudc some work dono in May and June, 191 l.

The reconnoissance for J?rimury triangulation along the thirtyninth parallel from the vicmity of Denver, Colo., to the Canadian boundary, begun in the spring of 1911, was in progress at the beginning of the year. · This reconnoissance was executed by the chief of party, aided by one man, with an outfit consisting of a team and light wagon, one saddle mule, n tent and bedding, cooking outfit for open camp fire, the necessary. tools, instruments, and personal baggage. The total weight of the camp outfit, tools, and instruments was about 400 pounds. Field work was completed to the Canadian boundary by August 10.

REPORT OF SUPERIN'l'ENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

21

Pike's Peak-Bison, with Divide as the third point, were selected for the base, starting from the transcontinental triangulation. These stations are approximately in latitude 39°, longitude 10.5°. The two most northern points in the scheme, Boundary and Northeast Base, are practically on the United States and Canada boundary and between longitude 103~ and 104°. The distance from the thirtyninth parallel base to the line Boundary-Northeast Base, as measured through the scheme, is 720 miles. The actuo1 work, including :field records, was completed in 31 months, making an average of about 206 miles per month. In all there are 73 stations in the main scheme of this rcconnoissance, including base nets and Laplu.ce stations. Only nine signals arc required, viz, two 60-foot, three 30-foot, two 20-foot, 11nd two 10-foot; of these, five signals arc in the base nets and one signal is ttt a Laplace station, leaving but three signals necessary for the ma,in scheme of 720 miles of trangulation. Two base-line sites were selected, one in the vicinity of Provo, S. Dale, a station on the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad, and the other in the vicinity of Ambrose, N. Dak., near the boundary between the United States and Canada. Three Laplace stations were selected, one at Watkins, Colo.; one at Provo, S. Dak.; und one at Mondak, near the North Dakotu-Montana line. Connections were made with monuments on the State boundaries between Colorado and Wyoming, Wyoming and Nebraska, Nebraska and South Dakota, Wyoming and South Dakota, South Dakota and Montana, Wyoming and Montana, South Dakota and North Dakota, and North Dakota and Montana. Connections were made with Coast und Geodetic Survey bench marks at Watkins, Colo.; Brighton, Colo.; Dover, Colo.; and Provo, S. Dak., with tv,,·o bench marks of the Chicago, Milwaukee & Puget Sound Railroad; and with three bench marks and four trangulution stations of the Missouri River Commission. Connections were made also with triangulation stntions of the United States Geological Survey adjacent to the scheme, and several stations of the Geological Survey were used us points in the main scheme. Upon the completion in August of the reconnoissance from the "Vicinity of Colorado Springs to the Canadian bound11ry, work wus be~n on the reconnoissance for the connection of tho r,rimary triangulat10n in Utuh with the primary triungulution of the l'cxas-California line in the vicinity of Needles, Cal. Field operations were begun nen.r Milford, Utah, on August 23. In this work the observer carried only the necessary instruments and a few necessary articles of personal ba17gage, the total weight of which was about 13.5 pounds, and tmvelect by ro.il and stage. Teams or saddle horses were hired temporarily where it was necessary to dept1.rt from regular lines of transportation to visit the points selected for the scheme. · Starting from the transcontinental triangulation, with the line Pioche-Tushar as a base and Wheeler Peak as the third point, rapid progress was made, and the reconnoisstmce was completed on September 29. The scheme connects with the California triangulation on the line Pine-Chimehuevis, with Powell as the third point. The total length of the scheme, measured along its axis, is 310 miles. The time occupied in actual work was one month and seven days.
0

22

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Beginning at stations Pioche-Tushur, the scheme was swung to· the westw11rd along the San Pedro, Los Angeles & Salt Lake Ruilroad and the stage lines connecting with that railroad. The stations, which are on the highest points of the mountains, can all be reached by pack horses. The scheme was carried along the route most convenient for the observing party, keeping in touch as for as possible with railroads, wagon roads, and towns from which supplies arc obtainable. There are 10 primary stations to be occupied in the main scheme, including the two stations on the transcontinental line und two stations on the Texas-California line. A Laplace station was provided for at Moapa, N cv. Connections were made with Coast and Geodetic Survey bench marks at Lund, Utah, and Moapa, Nev., with monuments on the uoundarics between Nevada and Utah, Nevada and Arizona, and 1.Jtuh ancl Arizona, and with stations of the Geologic11l Survey triungulution adjacent to the scheme. In October the trungulntion station on Pikes Peak was visited and the station mark recovered. Between November 8 and February 6 a rcconnoissancc for primary triangulation was made between Huntsville, Ala., and Memphis, Tenn. Beginning at Huntsville, stations "Rowe Mt." and "vVilson Mt." of the oblique arc were recovered, and they form tho base stations for the present work. "Smithers" and "Tanyard" s~ations were also recovered and are used in the main scheme. By December 31 the reconnoissance was extended to stations "Gordon" and "Hickory" in the vicinity of Grand Junction, Tenn. A longitude station was provided for at Huntsville, Ala. Provision was also made for a connection with a precise level bench mark at Iuka, Miss. Connection was made with tho existin~ surveys of the l\fississippi River Commission, the United States Engmeers, and tho triangulation of the Coast and Geodetic Survey in the vicinity of ~fomphis. A base was provided for in the vicinity of Capleville, Tenn., also a Laplace station near Germantown, Tenn., and connection was made \nth a precise level bench mnrk at Mem.rhis. After completing the reconnoissance to Memphis, an examinat10n was made of the country to the westward between Memphis and Little Rock, Ark. The country between these places is flat and covered with high timber, and there arc but few wagon roads, which are very bad during the greater part of the year. To extend triangulation from Memphis to Little Rock would require signals 90 to 100 feet high for 10 to 12 mile lines, and the total cost would be about five times greater than that of a primary traverse. For this reason, a reconnoissance for primary traverse was made between Memphis and Little Rocle The tmverse starts from M. R. C. West Base triangulation station, 7 miles west of Memphis, on the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Rni..1road, and follows the above railroad track to Little Il<>ck N. W. Base triangulation station, about :3 miles east of the city of Little Rock, Ark. Provision was made for a Laplace station at Forest City, Ark., Devall Bluff, Ark., and Little Rock N. W. Base, Ark. The length of the traverse is about 123 miles. A base for primary triangulation was located to the eastward of Little Rock and a reconnoissance for primary triangulation exl<'ndcd westward to the line "Shinall" to "Reynolds." These stations are

l!EPORT OF SUPERI~TENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

23

15 miles w0st of Little Rocle Provision was made for conn<'ction with precise level bPnch mark at Little Rock, Ark., and a connection was made with United Stal<'s Geological Survey triangulation stations "Slrirmll," ":\1annella," and "Reynolds," in Pulaski County, Ark. Field work closed on February 29. In April two signal-building parties were organized at Littleton, Colo., to build the signals and scaffolds and prepare base-line sites for the primary triangulation near the one hundred and fourth meridinn from the vicinity of Denver, Colo., northward to the Canadian boundary. One party began work in the vicinity of l\fonvillc, Wyo., and the other at Crosby, N. Dak. At Ambrose, near Crosby, a baseline site was prepared and signnls erected and the buildrng party assisted in measuring the base. Signal building was then resumed southward from the United States nnd Canada boundary line, and by June 30 the northern party had marked stntions and built si~1rnls at 34 points, completing the signal building as far south as i:ientinel Butte, N. Dak., a distance of 140 miles. By June 25 the southern party had completed signal building from Manville, 'Vyo., southward to "PikPs Peak-Bison" in the vicinity of Colorado Springs, including 23 stations, a distance of 210 miles.
VIRGINIA.

[J. B.

BoUT1;LLE,

Commanding Steamer Endeavor.]

SUMMARY OF nERULTS.-'l'riangulation: 70 square miles of area covered, 77 signals erected, 8 ob8erving tripods built, 24 old stations recovered, 29 new stations determined, 84 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 87 geographic poRitions deterrnined. Topography: 4 square miles of area surveyed, 43.2 miles of shore lino run, 8 miles of creeks, 25 mileH of railroads and other roads. llydrography: 375.2 square miles of area covered, 12,202.4 miles run while sounding, 14,275 positionB determmed, 77,450 soundings, 1 tidal station established.

At the beginning of the year the steamer ~Enileavor was engaged in s_urvcying opcr_ations in Chesapeake Bay, with headqu~!·ters at Crisf1old, Md. 'l'lns work was completed by August 25. 1 he area cov~red being through tho center of the bay at its widest part, the observing was difficult. Signals wore built 50 to 60 feet in height and a crow's-nest for observing on the ship's foremast, 42 feet above the Water, was constructed. Sounding could only be done in clear weather, as a very little mist or haze in the afr would shut out tho distant signals. 1'he sunken battleship Texas, at the mouth of Pocoinoko Sound, was utilized as a signal. . Tho soundings over nearly all of this area run very evenly, with no Indication of the formation of lumps and generally little change from tho published charts. From July 17 to 22 the party made a hydrog1:aJ)hic examination of North Channc~l, entrance to Chesapeake Bay, wit 1 r<>stilts as follows: Hod nun buoy No. 2 was found to be in a position -! mile SK of that shown on chart 131. Red nun buoy No. 4 was found to be t mile SW. of the charted position, and the wreck buoy i mile SW. of the position shown on tho chart. Nautilus Shoal was found to have extended a point to the southwest, reaching to about one-quarter milo south of the line between buoys No. 2 and No. 4 and showing 10 feet of water. Tho 3-fathom curve between buoy No. 2 and the wreck buoy was found to have

24

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

moved three-fourths mile to the north. The 17-foot spot shown on chart 131 in the channel five-eighths mile southeast of the position of buoy No. 2 had apparently been washed away, and no depth of less than 35 feet was found in that vicinity. Tho least water found on Nautilus Shoal was 8 foot, about 100 meters northwest of buoy No.2. At the request of the Maryland Board of Pilots a hydrographic examination was made in the vicinity of Cape I-Iemy to sec if changes had taken place in the shoal known as the Tail of the Horseshoe. The soundings made showed that tho published chart of the locality was substantially correct. This examination was made between September 7 and 11. The next work of the vessel was in tho vicinity of Tangier Island) in Chesapeake Buy. Signals were established from Tangier Island to Kedges Strait and the area from the 4-fathom curve t<i the shore line and connecting with the work of 1910 was sounded owr. One sheet extending from Tangier Island to Kcdges Strait wns completed on December 20, and, as the weather was extremely unfaYorublo for work in the bay, tho party was transferred to Norfolk, Va., to make a resurvey of the south branch of tho Elizabeth Hivcr. Two churches, old triangulation points, one in Norfolk and ono in Portsmouth, were used as a base, and from these a tertiary triangulation was carried up the Elizabeth lUver to the locks of tho Dismal Swamp Canal on DeC'p Creek. At the latter place ono of the triangle sides was measured with a steel tape as a check on the triangulation, and showed a satisfactory agreement. On the completion of tho triangulation tho topography of the river was taken up and earned from the canal locks to Norfolk and along the south shore of tho castPrn branch to the highway brifl~c, und the wharf lino of Norfolk, Portsmouth, and Bcrk111y was veritwd. The hydrography of Deep Creek from the EHzabcth River to tho canal locks was also completed. That of tlw south brunch of Elizabeth River was omitted, owing to drcc.lging operations soon to ho commenced there by the United States EngmcN·s. Work in Elizabeth River was completed on April 23, and tho party returned to the previous working ground in Chesapeake Bay, in the vicinity of Crisfield, Md. From May 27 tho party was engaged in searching for old stations and building signals over the area extending from }{edges Strait to Barren Island and in determining their positions. Sounding was begun May 27 and continued to tfie close of the year.
NORTH DAKOTA, NEW MEXICO, UTAH, A:-;"D WASHINGTON.

[W.\1. llowrn.)

During the month of August an inspection was mado in tho field of the work of parties engaged in rcconnoissancc, triangulation, leveling, and gravity work, viz: One party cnga~Pd in rcconnoissance for primary tnangulation from Colorado Sprrngs, Colo., to tho Canadian boundary between the one hundred and third and one hundred and fifth meridians; one party engaged in the determination of the intensity of gravity in tho State of Washington; ono party engaged in triangulation from the mouth of tho Columbia River to

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDEN"T, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

25

Tacoma, Wash., by way of Willapa Bay and Grays II arbor; one party engi~ed in precise leveling in Utah; and one party engaged in precise levehng in New :Mexico. Methods of work were examined and suggestions made us to instruments and other details relating to outfit and party organization where necessary.
MARYLAND.

[J. E.

BvnDA1'K, GF.oitoE IIA1tTNEr.r.,

and 8. G.

Tow:-<SHEND,

.Tr.]

The ma~netic observatory at Cheltenham, ~Id., was under the charge of .l\ir. J. E. Burkank from July 1 until September 7 Hll 1. From the latter date until the close of the year l\Ir. George H~urtnell Was in charge. The Eschenhugen and Adie magnetograph and the Bosch-Omori seismographs were kept in operation without uppreciitble int,erruption, and the required absolute observations, scale value determinations, and daily meteorological observations were made and mugnetogruph and seismograph records obtained. 'l'he number of magnetic storms recorded was less than for the previous year. Reports of these storms have been furnished to the Journal of 'l'errestriul :Magnetism for publication. . Special rapid-rate registration was carried out on specified term days I~ each month, in conformity with requests for internationul cooperation with the English Antarctic Expedition and with the Austrulnsiun Antarctic Expedition, both of wluch were still engaged in magnetic observational work in the antarctic regions ut the close of the fiscal Year. About 45 earthquakes were recordedhmostly of distant origin, the ll1otion at Cheltenham being very sma . An obsC'rvcr preparing to accompany tho Crocker Land Expedition to go north next summer Was given instruction in magnetic work. A number of instruments ~Vere standardized for the use of the Survey. Certain nllerations nnd Illl.provements were made in the buildings.
TEXAS AND NEW l\IEXICO.

(C. M. CADE.]
SuM~fAHY OF

n·:st;LTs.-Leveling: 358.7 miles of line eompletPd, 153 henC"h marks

est.a blished.

The party organized in :May, 1911, to carry on precise levelin~ betwecn Jericho, Tex., and Albuquerque, N. Mex., had reached Canyon, Tex., by June 30. From that point the lino of levels was continued to Albuquerque, where the work was closed on November 8. At Jericho a satisfactory connection was made between bench mnrk 13 10 and bench mark AlO, 3.5 miles cast of Jericho. The lino Jericho to Albuquerque follows tho Chicago, Rock Islnnd & Pacific Rnilway 1 \S far as Amarillo, Tex., and the lines of the Atchison, Topeka & Santa l· e Railway from that point to Isletu, N . .Mex., where connection was ll1ade with Coast and Geodetic Survey bench mark N2. Permission for the use of velocipede cars by tho leveling party was grunted by the 0 fiicia1s of both roads, and permission to use freight trains for the ¥ansportation of the party was granted by the officials of the Santa ·e road.

26

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

For the establishment of permanent bench marks, bridge abutments, and buildings of masonry construction afforded convenient locations. Sufficient iron and stone posts were set to furnish a bench mark every 5 or 6 miles. Disks, bolts, and squares cut in masonry were used to bring the number of bench marks 25 per cent above the minimum of 20 h<mch marks per kilometer. At or near evenr railroad junction point not less than three permanent bench mnrl~s were established. Kine iron bolts set by the Santa Fe cnginel'fs were included in the line of levels, and copper disks and bolts, when set in the abutments, were placed neur the railroad bench murks to afford means of comparison with their levels. Connection was made with an iron pipe bench mark at Fort Summer on the Pecos H.iver supposed to have been set by tho l7nitcd States Reclamation Service, and with five iron pipe bench marks of tho United States Geological Survey between Belon and Isleta. . 'fhc largest amount of work done in any one day was 14 .35 miles of single line, or 7.075 miles of completed line. This was accomplished in 7 hours and 30 minutes of actual leveling. The larg-t'st amount of work for any calendar month was done during September, 95.5 miles in 24 working days. From August 16 to September 16, 106.8 miles of line were completed in 25 working days.
WASHINGTON.

[R.

n. D1mICKSO~, Commanding 8teamers Gedney and Explorer,

Dec. 7 to l\fuy. 3.]

St::~B!ARY OP RESt:Lrn.-Triangulation: 8 signals erected, l stat.ion occupied for observations of horizontal angles, 8 geographical positions detenni11ed. Topogmphv: 20.43 square miles Of area <"OVered, 34.31 miles Of ('Oast line 1mrveyc<l. 4.80 miles shore line of rivers, 13.!JG miles of shore line or creeks, !J.75 mile8 of ro:Hl~, 2 topogr:.iphic sheets completed. Hy<lrography: 25.3 square mileH of area Ho1mde<l, 439.3 miles run while sounding, 4,202 angles measured, 20,710 Roundings made, 2 tidal Ht.ations e~tah lished, 5 current stations occupied, 3 hydrogr.i.phic sheets finished Magnetic work: 1 station occupied for observations of magnetic deC'lination.

of

Tho resurvey of the bar and entrance to Willapa Bay, Wash., which was in progress at tho beginning of the year, was continued by the party on the steamer Gedney until completed on July 27. Upon examination it was found th.at gn·ut changes had tukcn place since the original survey. The channel und bur crossing was found to be a mile north of its charted position, and tho shoals and sand pits were either entirely gone or liad shifted in position both inside and outside the entrance. It wus only with local knowledge, aided by tho buoys which had been changed in position from time-to time, that vessels were able to enter the harbor. In order to make tho required changes to tho chart, a considnrnble area had to be covered by hydrogra_rhy, and the topography extend(·d from the capes as for cast as Toke Pomt. A base lille approximately a mile in length was measured on the, beach with a 50-meter steel tape, and from this base the triangulation was extended to furnish points for tho hydrography and topo~ raphy. A search was made for triangulation pomts previously established, but only one station, "Goose Point," was recovered. This station was occupied and tho line between it nn<l the lighthouse on Capo Shoulwater connected with the local triangulation, giving an azimuth und an approximate check on the field computations.

REPORT 01<' SUPERIXTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

27

Thirty-six points were located by triungulution un<l their geographical positions determined. Great care wus given to the pcrInanent marking of tho triangulation stations. Subsurface murks W:ere placed 4 feet below grourid, with concrete un<l galvanized iron pipe to mark the points on the surface in most cases, und all signals Were well secured and left standing. · Topography wns begun at a point about 3 miles north of Capo Shoalwater nnd the shore line surveyed nround North Day to the wharf at Toke Point. As shown by the topographic sheet, tlio south point of Cape Shoulwater has receded nearly three-quarters of a mile, the Whole south side having been washed away, with a slight filling in on the west side opposite the lighthouse. The shoals in North Bay are now dry at half tide und their area increased so thnt it appears that ~he entrre bay will fill in in 11 short time. The next important change lll the topo~raphy is the filling in of the lurge sand flnts north of Leadbetter t'oint, which a.re awash at high tide. The high-wutc~r line at the extremity of Leadbetter Point bus receded about one-qunrter of a mile and extended approximately 1 mile in an easterly direction. The west side of the point is practically the sumo with the exception that the low-water line extends fur to the westward. Inside t.he buy the area of the low-water flats is about the same us shown on the clrnrt. The island known us Ellen Sands has extended to over 2 miles in longth and shifted one-quarter of 11 mile to the eastward. No changes in the high-shore line bordering the bay were noted. Tho most important part of the resurvey was the development of the navigable waters and outline of the breakers at the entrance to the bay. In connection with this, and in order that careful tidal ~bservations might bo taken, an automatic tide gauge was established at 'I'oke Point, which recorded tho tides continuously during the progress of the work. Sounding lines were run in and out the main ship channel as lnarked by the buoys, and from these lines the work was extended to the northward and southward so us to include the whole of the entrance to tho bay. Tho lines of soundings were carried from inside the bay to tho 15-fathom curve outside the bttr. The hydrographic work shows that important changes have taken :Place outside and in the entrance. The 1 nnd 2 fathom curves extend from Leadbetter Point around the flats to tho point markt~d by buoy No. G. This fiat or South Spit is approximately 2! milPs long and 1 milo wide, extending out from Leadbetter Point in a northerly direction and contracting the entrance to 1 mile. North Spit has shortened and now extends only 1t miles out from Cape Shoalwater in a southwesterly direction. b Middle Sands have entirely disappeared or washed in toward Leud·ettor Point. Tho c~nter of tho sands _is now covc~·ed by nbout 4 f athoms of water. I< rom the north pomt of tho :-.hddlo Sands, as shown on the present chart, the lino of breakers extends continuously to tho vicinity of buoy Ko. G, and in a southerly direction to abr0nst of Leadbetter Point station. With a smooth sPa tho wnt<·r brouks Continuously along those lines, showing thnt Leadbctt0r Point itself :Practically extends up to tho main ship channel. .The shoals showing 9 and 10 foot of water 2 miles northwest of Middle Sands have disappeared and are now covered by 4 fathoms of

28

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

water. The 3-fathom curve alon_g the southwest extremity of North Spit is only 2 miles from Cape t>hoalwuter. The south end of the cape is now covered by 10 to 16 fathoms of water, the currents having wushed out the sand for a distance of three-fourths of a mile. The North Spit is well defined in any weather by a continuous line of breakers inward from the 3-fathom curve. Inside tho entrance the changes ure not so extensive, except that the two 18-foot spots, one-half mile south of Jenny Ford Spit, murk the northeust end of Leadbetter Point Spit. The south end of Jenny Ford Spit has receded about one-half mile. The m11in ship channel extends in un oust-northeast direction. The fairway buoy marking the outer edge of the bar is 5 miles from the sou th end of Capo Shoalwater. At this place the bar has about 26 feet over it at mean low water, continuing for a half mile to the eastward, where the wuter begins to deeyen. Between the extremity of Cupe Shoulwater nrnl the South Spit, the water deepens to 20 fathoms, and then shoals to 5 fathoms between buoys No. 3 and No. 8. Outside the fuirwny buoy the water deepens abruptly to 15 and 17 fathoms near the whistling buoy. Observations macle ut 12 different positions where the ship wus ut anchor give an idea of the velocity and direction of the currents in the prevailing northwest winds. A maximum velocity of 5 knots was observed in the main channel. Very strong currents set over the South SJ?it. On an ebb tide, breakers and tide rips form between the fairway buoy and the end of North Spit and endanger small vessels. They disappear with the slacking of the current. A complete set of magnetic observations with the compass declinometer was made at Toke Point, showing the declination to be 23° 41.8' cast. The results of this survey will be of great value to masters of vessels entering the harbor, who have been obliged to depend upon local knowledge in piloting vessels in and out, the chart being more or loss misleading, owing to the changes that havo occurred since tho former imrvcys. The chief industry of Willapa Bay is tho export of lumber to foreign and domestic ports. During the year 1910, 391 steamships and 27 sailing vessels entered and departed laden with lumber from this harbor. In March a hydrographic survey was made of the entrance to Engle Harbor. Soundings were made rn the customary way over an area extending from the 10 to 20 fathom curve, outside the entrance up to the shipyard dock. A topographic resurvey of the shore line wus made to establish points for the hydrography. The sounding lines were af terwurds plotted on the same topographic sheet. During the survey a tide stuff was maintained at the wharf and compurativc readings mll;de with the automatic gauge at Seattle. Aftcrwur~ls the hydrogruplnc survey of the cast and wost waterways of Scuttle Harbor wus taken up. This survey work was curried on while the steamer Gedney was having repair work done, and the triangulation continued by the steamer Explorer, tho command of which vessel had been assigned to Assistant R. M. Patton on May 3. The topography was brought to a close May 21. The work of the Gedney in Alaska is noticed under another head.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY. NEW YORK.

29

[E. F.

DICKINS.]

Inspection of the district from New Lon<lon, Conn., to Phila<lclPrhiu, Pa., was assigned early in October to the above-named officer. J'hrough the courtesy of tho collector of customs ut Now York a room lil the customhouse was nssigned to the representative of tho Survey, who is furnished with a ftlo of the latest chnrts, Const Pilots, tide ~ables, notices to mariners, and other maritime publications for tho inspection an<l use of those desiiing to consult them, and is able to answer requests from tho public for iI1formntion regar<ling harbors, rivers, and inlets not only in that particulnr district but for the Pacific coast, Alaska, an<l the outlying possessions of the United States. Through the courtesy of the New York l\faritime Exchungo he is enabled to receive the latest marine news, to keep in touch with navigators and others practically interested in tho publications of the Survey and to obtain their views in regard to improvements desirable or errors to be corrected. This officer has also attended to shipments of 11mnch engines, boilers, supplies, and other material to field officers of the Survey in Alaska and the Philippine Islands and in the Cnnul Zone.
VIHGINIA.

[O. W. FEnousoN, Commanding Schooner Matchless.]
Su~rnAHY ol' 1rnsULTs.-llase lines: 1 Hecondary. Triangulation: 69 square miles of area covered, 109 signal poles erected, 55 obHCrving signals and scaffolds built, 103 stat.ions occupied for honzoutal measures, 107 geographic positions determined. Leveling: J6 elevations determined by leveling, 4.2 miles of levels run. .Magnetic W<?rk: 3 land stations occupi~d for 1_nagnet.ic declinat.ion. '.fopographv: GO RqnUie nalesof area covered, 193.2 miles of nvr.rs surveyed, 100.3 miles of creeks surveyed, 151.G miles of roads surveyed, 4 topographical sheet.a finished. Ilydrography: 82.9 square miles of area covered, 770 miles run while sounding, 4,252 posit.ions determined, 29,974 soundings, G tidal stations established, 8 current stat.ions occupied, 4 hydrog'raphic sheets finished.

During the period from August 11 to December 31 the party on the schooner Matchless .was continuously engngod in the revisional"J. survey of the York River, Vn., and tho surveys of the l\fattnporu and Pumunkey Rivers, tributaries of the York River, which unite to form that river, and which had not previously been surveyed by tho Coast and Geodetic Survey. The workincludcd triangulation, to,.Pography, and hydrography. By December 31 the survey of the 1' ork River Was nearly completed. The triangulation had been curried 7 miles Up the Pamunkey River ancl the topography about 6 miles, and on the .Mo.ttaponi River the triangulation had been extended about 4 miles o.nd the topography 1 mile. h .Only two of the triangulation stations of 1855 and 1856 on the York i.·1ver wero recovered. Tides were observed during the progress of ~~e su~ey at Gloucester Point, Clnybank, Allmondsville, un<l YVestpomt. Between ,January 1 and June 30 the survey of tho Pamunkoy River Was completed to about 14 miles abovo West.point, and there suspended until tho survey of tho Mattaponi River could be completed.

30

REPORT 01" SUPEIUNTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The survey of the ~Iut,tuponi River was finished on June 10 und the vessel then proceeded to ~altimore for repnirs. The triangulation begnn at stations "York" and "Fort" of 1906 and was continued to V{ est point and thence up the Pnmunkey River 14 miles nnd up the Mn t tn poni River 32 miles. 'l'he lust 8 miles of the Mattapon.i Hiver was controlled by u meander line, cnrrying azimuth, latitude, and longitude. A side of the triangulation station "White" to station "Base," about 300 meters long, was measured nenr the end of the season and the mensured length was found to agree well with the com1mted length. All stations were well marked and described. The topogruphy of the river shores was executed in sufficient detail to show all sloughs, creeks, roads, and other importnnt features. The hydrogrn phy of the York, l\1attaponi, and Pamunkev Rivers was completely developed in the areas covered, and the tidi1l plunes were well determine<l. Three tidal bench murks were established. Ti<lal currents were observed at eight stations. Observations were made for magnetic declination in three localities.
NEW YORK.

[E. G.

FISCllE!l.]

In the latter pnrt of :November the electricnl tidal indico.tors ut the Kew York ~fllntime Exchange were exumined, adjusted, and put in thorough working order. The float pipe on Pier A was removed from its previous location and remounted m a suituble room constructed for the purpose within the building on the pier. The sending part of the appnrutus wns repaired und the instrumentul part remounted. The electrical indicutor ut the Seumen's Friend Society's Institute was also overhauled and put in order, nnd electric current from the street mains was substituted for the battery current previously used.
VJllOINIA,
PE~NSYLYAN"JA,

DlcLAWARE 1 AND NEW ,JEltSEY.

[S'rEIUIAN FoRNEY.] SuMMAnY o~' nEsur,Ts.-Triangulation: 138 square miles of area covered, 57 signals erected, !i5 stations occupied fur horizontal measures, 119 geographic poHitions determined. Topography: 19 B<Jmtre miles of area surveyed, 40.5 mileH of shoro line nm, 4 miles of marsh line, 57 .5 miles of roads, 4. 75 topographic sheets completed. llydrography: 18 square mileH of acca covered, 128.86 miles run while sounding, :;85 angles measured, 4,576 soundings, 2 tidal stations e:;tablished, 2 hydrographic Bheet8 completed.

After July 1 the pnrtv engaged in the resurvey of the eaRtern shore of the Virginia Penmsul11 completed the hydrographic examination of "\Yaclrnprcague Inlet nnd approuches, revised the shore line at Fishing Point, nJHl mudo a hydrogrnphic examination of Assuteague unchorage and Chincoteague Inlet. Upon the completion of the latter work 011 August 7 the house boat Comrade, which provided accommodations for t1ie party, wus tnken to Philadelphia, und preparutions were begun for resurveying tho upper portion of tho Delaware Hiver, commencing ut Bridesburg. Satisfo.ctory progress wns made in the Delaware Iiiver work, and by December 31 the topogruphicul resurvey of both shores of the rivPr from the milroud bridge below Bridesburg to the HouRc of Correctirnl wharf at llolmcshurg hud been completed. The new triangulation up the river from the line "Frankford Pumping" to "Clurk" (old

REPORT OF SUPEHINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

31

triangulntion stations), to the line "Enterprise" to "Dromer," had also been completed, nnd triangulation stnt10ns hud been marked and signals erected us fur as Burlington, N. ,J. A serious accident to the chief of party prevented his taking an active part in the field work from Oct.ober 3 to December 31. He continued to direct the work of the party, however, and the work :vas carried on without interruption by other officers acting under his Instrnctions. Between Jnnuary 1 and .Tune 30 the shore line nncl interior topography was completed from Torresdale, Pa., to Beverly, N. J. Tr1anguhtion signals were built and stations marked with concrete piers Us far up the river as Florence, N. J. The trinngulntion nnd plane table work arc completed to Burlington, N. J., and Bristol, Pa.
GEOIWIA AND sorTII CAROLl:N"A.

I OscAJt II. GAARDE!-1.]
i'.lTAT10:-1s occvrrnn.--Gcorqia: Augusta, Appling, Butler, Fayetteville,· Fo~yth, Gray, Griffin, .Jonesboro, Knoxville, Lexington, .Monticello, Perry, Talbot.ton, Vienna, and Zclmlon. South Carob"na: Abbeville, BiHhopville, Chester, Chesterfield, Dillon, g~~e!iekl, Florence, Gaffney, Greenville, Laurens, Lexington, St. Matthews, and Vinnsboro.

\

Determinntions of the valne of the three magnetic elements were UJ.ade by the above-named observer between February HJ und June 30. Meridinn lines were established in 27 loculities. Meridian Inarks were not set nt Lexin<rton, "Winnsboro, und Chester, S. C., us the Unikd Stutes Geologicuf Survey hud cstablish<'d mf'ridinn lines nt t.hcse places. Meridian marks were snt only at the new stations, l1'lorencc, S. C., und Augusta, Gu. Speciul observations W('re made at 14 plncps in South Cnrolina with compass declinometcr No. 2. At Florence, S. C., imd Augusta, Ga., observations were made at both the old und new stntions. 'l'he Coast. und Geodetic Survey brass station marks, securely embedded in suitable stones, were used to murk stations and bearings, and distanct·s to near-by objects were determined at each station.
NEW YORK.

IJ01rn C. GAuaE1t.]
S11~1MA1tY OP nESl!LTs.-Triangulation: 15.l square miles of area co\·pred, 5 signals e_rcctcd, (l RlationA occupied for observations of horizont11l angle~, 28 g<·ographic p0Ait1ons determined. JI y1lrography: 1.85 Aq11are miles of area covered, H miles run While sounding, G!J poHitlous determined, 9!i3 soundings, l tidal stat.ion established.

f

'l'hc revision of the trinngulation at the eastern end of Long Island and hydrogrnphic <'Xamiuation of Grent Pond, in the vicinity of Mon\auk Point, Long Islnnd, which had been begun by Assist.ant A. M. Sobieralski, were continued by :Mr. Gauger from July 22 until August IO, when he wns relieved by Mr. W. M. Steirnugle. The trinngulation \Vas connected with three stations of tho old triangulut ion. Four of the seven stations of tho original surveys of 1837 nnd 1882 were re~overerl 1md murked in a permanent mnnner. The length of the tl'lungulation along its central axis is G.5 stn,tute miles. 'l'he hydrographic cxuminntion of Grcnt Pond wns made merely ?r tho purpose of determining its general depth. In order t0 t~stab lsh a relation between the pond and mcn.n low water, datum for

32

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

purposes of possible harbor development, a connection by leveling was made between the present water level of the pond and one observed low water in Long Island Sound. Soundings were made in Great Pond at quarter-mile intervals, the greatest depth found being 12~ feet. The water level of the pond w11s found to be approximately 3~ feet above mean low water in Long Island Sound. No marked changes were found to have occurred in the shore line. Notes concerning landmarks, other aids to navigation and topographical features were made with a view to the correction of the charts.
FLORIDA, GEORGIA, NOHTII CAROLINA, VIRGINIA. SOlITII CAROLINA, AND

[II. C.

GnAYES,

Commanding Steamer Hydrorrraphcr.]

The party on the stcumer llydrographer was organized m April for the rcvISion of the sailing directions and Coust Pilot volumes along the South Atlantic coust from Chesapeake Bay entrance to Kev West, Fla. Ou April 29 the vessel left Norfolk and proceeded through the inside passuge to Beaufort, N. C., and then outside to Charleston, Port Royal Sound, Brunswick, Fernandina, and Key 'Vest, arriving ut the latter place on May 17. After that date coast-pilot work w11s done on the coast from Key vV est to the St. Johns River, St. Johns River to Bnmswick, Brunswick to Savannah, Savannah to Charleston, and Charleston to Georgetown, S. C. Between Key V\T est, Fla., nnd Georgetown, S. C., the principal harbors, rivers, und inland passages have been traversed and the buoyed channels over the bars nt the entrances luwe been sounded. At all points visited m11sters, pilots, harbor masters, and others interested in navigation were interviewed. The vessel, with the aid of local pilots, was taken some distance up the principal rivers in order to learn by personal observation the extent of traffic, character of the channels, conditions for obtaining supplies, and other information relating to the navigable waters embraced within the limits of tide wnter. Valuable information was obtained from the United St.ates Engineers engaged in river and harbor work in South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. The ship was swung on 32 headings to determine compnss deviation at 14 places nlong the coast, these embracing the entrances to the principal harbors.
MAINE.

[N. H. HECK.]
Sm.rnAHY OF REsUJ,Ts.-Triangulation: 250 square miles of area covered, 10 signnls eredcd, 20 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 47 geographic poffit.ions determined. Leveling: 40 elevations of bench marks <let.ermined, 7 miles of levels rnn. Ilydrography: 150 square miles of area covered, 591 miles run with wire drag, 23,452 angles measured, 377 soundings made, 3 tidal stations established, 5 hydrogrophic sheets completed, 57 tidal bench marks established.

Work on the coast of Maine was continued by the wfre-drag party, which took the field in April, 1911, as long us weather condition& permitted field operations,

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

33

The instructions for the season included work in East Penobscot Bay, "'\Vest Penobscot Bay, Jericho Bay, the channels south of Swans Isla~1~, Blue Hill. ~ay, and the approaches to Penobscot Bay between Met1mc and :Matlllicus Isln.nds. By the close of the season on October 30, the work in East Penobscot Bay and West Penobscot Bay was completed and all work of pressing importance in Jericho Bay was finished. A portion of the work required in Blue Hill Bay was accomplished, but the work in the chn1mels south of Swans Island and in the approaches to Penobscot Bay was not completed. In addition to the hydrography, a largo number of tidal bench marks were recovered, many new ones established, nnd 27 triangulation stations were occupied, including 12 new stations, and the latter Were thoroughly marke1l. Fort.y-six old triangulntion st.ntions were recovered, 15 were not found, and 23 were re-marked. A list of conspicuous objects useful for navigation, and also in locating buoys, was compiled and forwarded to the office. A complete description of the wire-dmg work as now carried on was prepared and trunsmitted for the Superintendent. The wire-drug work done during the season was planned with especinl reference to the examination of im{>ortant chnnnPls in such a way as to insure the safety of vessels usmg such ehnnnels at all points. The total area covered with the drag during the senson from April to October was 200 square miles, or nearly twice the area covered during the previous season. The number of soundiiws made, nearly 500, indicates the large number of unchartcJ shoals trnnd, probably 300, representing either now shoals or less depths founJ on charted shoals. A number of important shoals were found, especially in the channels between the two lines of islands and shoals in 'Vest PPnobscot Bay extending north from Robinsons Rock and )fork Island, respectively. In the open water southeast of Goosn Island a wreck Was located and buoyed for the United States Engineers. The area surrounding the islands from Compass Island to Mark Island was found to contain numerous pinnacle rocks, which were located. Soundings made on Bass Harbor Bar disproved the report of greater depths than those indicated by the charts. · The cost of this work is 575 per square mile, tho lowest cost yot attained . . From December 14 until ~fay 7 the wire-drag party was engaged lll n. survey of the approaches to the Panama Canal, which work is :noticed under the head of "Outlying territory." In June the party was organized for wire-drag work in the apProaches to Block Island Sound, between Block Island and Montauk Point, and by the close of the month everything was in readiness for beginning work on July 1.
67901°-13-3

34

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC ~UBVEY.
GEORGIA
A~D

NORTH CAROLINA.

[WALLACE M. HILL.) STATIONS occuPIED.-Georgia: Abbeville, *Americus, * Ashb11rn, Bainbridge, Blakely, Carne~villo, Cleveland, Colquitt, *Cordele, Covington, Crawfordsville, *Dahlonega, Danielsville, Dawsonville, Fitzgerald, *Greensboro, Hazlehurst, Irvington, Jasper, La Grang,1 (old station), *La Grang<) (new station), Leesburg, *Louisville, *Lumpkin, McRae, Milledgeville, *Milton, Monroe, *Morgan, Nashville, *Preston, Quitman, Sparta, Sylvester, Thomson, Tifton, and *Tocoa. North Carolina: Lumberton (old station), and Lumberton (new station).

During the season from July 1 to Novcmbe!' 30 mngnetic obse!'vations were made at the stations listed above by the observer named. Meridian lines were estiiblished at the stations marked by an asterisk. By request of the St.ate Geologist of North Carolina the meridian lino at LmnhPrton, N. C., was moved to another loention in the same town. Old stations were recovered at Bainbridge, Louisville, and Milledgeville, Ga. Stations were marked with stone posts 6 by 6 by 30 inches, with tops either lettered or marked with a brass plate set in the stone. Owing to the cutting dO"wn of many of the blazed trees marking boundaries, property Jines in Georgia ure often uncertain, causing litigation in many instances. There were comiequently many requests for the establishment of meridian lines for use in determining magnetic variation and the correction of compass errors.
DELAWARE, FLOIUDA, GEORGIA, ' .MARYLAND, NORTH CAROLINA, PENNSYLVANIA, SOUTH CAllOUNA, AND VIRGINIA.

[W. C. HonoK1xs, Commanding Steamer Bache.]
Su~rnARY OF nEst:LTs.-Trian~ulation: 10 square miles of area covered, 4 si~1al poles erected, 11 stations occupied for horizontal mea.sures, 18 geographic positions determined. Magnetic work: 8 stations at. sea oc('upiecl for magnetic observation:<. Topography: ; squnro mile of area eovered, 4 miles of i::enernl coast surveyed, 1 topographic sheet finished. Hydrography: 650 square miles of area covered, 4,476.07 miles of soundings, 76,243 soundings. 1] ,n:rn angleR measnred, 7 tidal stations established, 13 current stations occupied, .5 hydrographic sheel.8 finished.

At tho beginnin~ of the fiscal year the Bache was engaged in hydrographic work in tile vicinity of New Ground Shoal, Florida Reefs. The work in that general region, including Isaac and Rebecca Shoals, and Marque..<ias Rock was continued until July 11, on which <lay work was closed for the season. The Baclie then proceeded via Key '\VeRt to Norfolk, Va. On July 29 the ship was swung in Hampton Roads for compass deviation and magnetic dip and intensity. On August 2 the Bache left Norfolk to take up the offshore hydrography between the Chesapeake und the Delaware entmnces, in connection with which tidal observations were made at Capo Charles Quarantine Station, Assateague Anchorage, 11nd Delaware Breakwater. Tho hydrography in that region included 11 general examination for the determination of possible changes by running lines due east from shoal water near the beach to a depth of 20 fathoms. The greater part of the work of the season was done in the region off Assateague and northward to Fenwick Island Shoal, that bemg the area within which the greatest changes were suspected. A number of lines of soundings were run, however, in other portions of the field of opera-

REPORT OF ::iUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC S~RVEY.

35

tions, usually in connection with the necessary passages to or from a harbor. Between August 30 and September 25 the vessel was undergoing repairs at Baltimore, after the com/)lction of which work was resumed on the coast of VirO'inia. In the atter part of November this work Was suspended, and nfter some minor repairs in Baltimore the vessel sailed for the southern coast. On December 4 and 5 determinations were made of the positions of the schooner Joseph G. Ray, wrecked on the l\liddlo Grnund, off Cape Charles, and of the naval collier Sterling, bettchcd wc::it of Cape Henry after being in collision. From December 11 the rnssel was engaged in hydrogmphy off the entrance to Winyah Bay, S. C., between Cape Uomain and Little River. In January a search was made for a dangerous shoal reported to exist about 11 or 12 miles southeastward of Ucbecca Shoal Lighthouse, in the vicinity of Key West, Fla. For the purpose of deterrnining the iiosition of the vessel while sounding, a number of buoys Were moored and located by observations from stat.ion "Quick" and Rebecca Shoal Lighthouse. A tide staff was established at the lighthouse. When th-e weather prevented work being done from the ship, a close hydrographic development was mnde of the reef, and as some shoal 1u:eus were discovered this development wns extended eastward as fur as Glum1t \Vrcck Buoy. A development wns also lllade of the western part of Rebecca Sf10al and vicinity to complete ~he survey of that locality, tho eastern part of it having been surveyed in 1911. Nothing was discovered corresponding to the reported danger, which was the original object of the season's work. The suspected area wus pretty thoroughly covered by sweeping with a wire drag set to n depth of 24 and 27 feet. From tho n·stdt of this examination and from information derived from the master of the schooner Elislui Atkins, who had r<'ported striking in th1tt region, the comlllanding officer of the Bache concludes that the object stmck was a Wreck which has since disappeared. At times when the Bache was at Key West a topographic survey Was made of the water front of that town. The next work of the vessel was in the vicinity of Brunswick, Ga., and included the offshore hydrography betwe<'n St. Marys entrance and Sapelo Sound, with special examinations 1tt the cntrunc<'s to St. .Andrews and St. Simons Sounds and a close survey of Doboy Bnr and approaches. At the end of tho fiscal year the work at Do boy entrance had been completed. · ·
WYOMING.

[C. V. Hooasox.]
SuM~tARY OF nr.suLTs.-RcconnoiBSancc: l point selected for scheme. Triangulation: 2,000 square miles of area covered, 11 stat.imlA oC'cnpicd for horizontal measures, 11 stations occupied for vertical measurei<, 24 geographic position~ determined.

In the latter part of April a pa1"ly was organized for primary triangulation along the one Jrnndred and fourth meridian to the northward of Pikes Peak. Work wus bcg-un in ~fay in the vicinity of ~Uernsey, Wyo., and by the end of June the occupation of stations ad been completed as far as Cheycnn<', Wyo.

36

REPORT OF :::;UPERl.'\TENDENT, COAST AXD !iEODETIC :->UllVEY.
MAl~E

AND

~1ASSACHUSETTS.

[E. ll. LATHAM.)
SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Triangulatio11: 2li old stat.ione recovered, 3 old sLationA searched for and not found, 8 signal poles erected, 11 stations occupied for horizontal meaBures, 18 geographic positions determined. Topo~raphy: lil square miles of area revised, 7 .6 square miles of area surveyed, 21 miles of general coUllt line, 10 miles of rivers, 5 topographic sheets revi~ed hut not entirely completed. llydrogrnphy: 1.2 square miles of area sounded, 591 miles run while Hounding, l ,534 positions determined, l!l,916 soundings, 5 tidal stations established, 5 hydro~raphic sheets finished.

In June work hud been bt>gun on tho revision of tho surveys in the vicinity of York, llfo. This work was continued niter July I und 11 topographical survey of York Bench and Cape N cddick on a scale of 1/2,500 wus coml)lctcd. A topographic rcvision of chart No. 328 of York Harbor, ~· e., ext<mding from York Harbor to Cupe Neddick, scale 1/20,000, wns also completed. A hydrographic sheet on tt scale of 1/2,500 of Capo Noddick Roads und approaches wns finished and sent to the office. Tho additions to the hydrography on chart 328 wero shown on 11 tracing. On August 29 an inspection wus made of tho automatic tide gauge station at Portland, and the elevation of the gauge connected with several bench murks by leveling. The next work taken up after tho close of opcn1tions at York Harbor on Au!!llst 30 was the continuation of revision work on the coast of MassacYmsett.s northwnr<l from the work of the preceding season in tho vicinity of Ipswich. Jiydrogrnphic surveys were mud.3 of the bars at tho entrance to Annisquum and Essex Rivers and Plum Island Sound. Soundings were also made in Plum Island Sound nnd Merrimac River when the weather wus suitable for the more exposed work on tho bars. The work of revisin~ the topography northward from the limits of the surveys made in the prev10us season was begun October 12 and by December 31 had been completed us far us Newburyport. In the course of tho work search was mnde for old triangulation stations needed for control purposes, nnd notes were made respecting tho condition of tho stations visited. During tho period from January 1 to June 30 chart revision wns carried northward from Ipswich, ~fuss., to Hampton, N. 11. The topography wus revised to Newburyport, Mass., and the hydrographic sheets of Plum Island Sound and River were completecL A survey was mudo at the entrance to Hampton River, N. I-I. The positions of Ipswich front range light and of two beacons at the entrance to Essex Bay were determined by t.riunhrulation. Points at tho entrance to Hampton Riv·!r and the position of tho standpipe at Boars Head were also trigonom~trically determined.
KANSAS, NEDIL\SKA, OKLAHO'.\IA 1 AXD TEXAS.

(IL E. r.IcCoMB.j
STATIONS occurrno.-Kansas: Winfield. Nebraska: Blair, Fullerton, Grand Island, Lexington, Loup City, Oshkosh, Seward, and Taylor. Oklahoma: Guthrie, Lehigh, Marietta, Okema *Poteau, Salisaw, Tishomingo, and Westville. Texas: Carthage, Centerville, Crockett, Dalla.~. Denton, Fairfield, Gilmer, Groveton, McKinney, *:\-It. Vernon, Nacogdoches, and Pittsburg.

Observations for the determination of the magnetic declination dip, and intensity wero made at th(} stations named during July and

REPORT OP SUPERINTENDENT, COAST ANO GEODETIC SURVEY.

37

August, 1911, and in June, 1912, stations were reoccupied at '\V-infield, Guthrie, and .McKinney. }foridiun lines were established at the stations marked with asterisks. The stntions were marked by limestone posts 6 by 6 by 24 to 30 inches, with a brass plate in the top marked "U. S. C. & G. S." This method of marking was found more satisfnctory thun simply lettering the stone. Much interest wns shown in the magnetic work by local surveyors at the points visitt·d, nnd m1111_Y requests for copies of the results Were received.
INSPECTION OF CHART AGE!l;CY.

(J. E. l\kGRATH.]

An inspection of the chart ngcncy of the Survey at Eastnort, :Me., Wus made by the above-nnnwd officer after the close of field. work on the survey of the nortJwnstern boundary between the United Stat<'s and Cunndu in October.
CALIFORNIA.

[Fn1rnON'l' :\lollSE.]

In F<~bruary n revision wns mndc of the surveys at Los Angeles Harbor necessary to corr<'<'t chnrt No. 5145. Blue prints were obtnined from the United States Engineers showing the dredging which had ~een done, und nlso a pamphlet showing the locntion of the lwrbor lllles nnd 11 list and description of trinngulation points, together with their coordinn tes referred to Const nnd Geod<>t ic Survey· station "De1tdmnns lslunds." Mr. Hamlin, city engineer of Los" Angeles, ~t1pplicd n. blue print of a mn.p pr<>parrd by the bureirn of harbor ~rnprovemcnt showing improved harbor front age nnd also proposed Itnprovemcnts. Blue prints showing complet~d or prospective im}lrovem?nts were furmshcd by several companies occupying wharf Property on the harbor front. Three dnys were sprmt in field work 11;round the harbor1 locating improvt1mcnts nnd chnngcs i.n shore hnc, nnd running m the electric road nnd boulevard around tho shore of tho bay from \Vilmington to Sun Pedro. On February I 5 an exnmina tion was made of u rock at Port Hurford, on which the Union Oil Co.'s st<'nmship Lansing, druwing. 2_5 feet 2 inclws, was r~portod to hnv<· struck on D(\c·~mbcr 21. A mm1rnum depth of 24.8 fret was found on this rock, which forms a ledge (\Xtcnding northw<·st nnd sm1th<'nst with two summits on which the depth is less than '27 fol'!.
IXSPECTIO'.\ OF CIIAHT AGENCIE8.

(A. T. l\losMA)>/.J

Between August 23 and September 12 an inspection was made of the agencies for tho sale of tho publications of tho Survey in the following Places: Portland, Bath, Rockland, Belfast, and Bangor, M.e.; Boston, Mass.; New London, Conn.; Newport, R. I.; and Kew York City, N.Y. At all of the agencies visited the stock of publicntions on hand was carefully cxnmincd, the number checked, und the ugent directed to turn in to the office all publications found to be obsolete. Notes were

~8

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COA~T .\ND C:EODETIC SURVEY.

made of the facilities for the display and sale of charts and other publications, the method of accounting for them, and the general condition of the various agencies.
ALABAMA, ARKANSAS, MISSISSIPPI, XORTH CAROLINA, TEXAS, AND VIRGINIA. TENNESSEE,

(FRANK NEUMANN.) STATIONS occuPrnn.-Alabama: Anniston, AHhland, *Athens, llrewton, *Camden, Courtland, *Elba, Elkmont, Hartselle, Lafayett~. *).1onroeville, *Moulton, Pell Citv, Selma, Tuscumbia, *Tuskegee, and Wetumpka. Arkansas: Little Rock. .Misslssippi: Brandon, *Coffeeville, *Columbus, *Decatur, Grenada, llouston, Lexington, Louisville, Philadelphia, *PittHboro, *Pontotoc, Ripley, and *Starkville. North Carolina: *Gatesville, *Marshall, *Newland, and Sali.~hury. Tennessee: Charlotw, Chesterfield, Elora, Fayetteville, Floyd, *Franklin, lfortsville, Lafayette, *LewiBburg, *Lynchburg, Lynnville, Lunenburg, Manchester, Mc).linnville, Memphis, Nashville, Shelbyville, *Smithville, ··Spencer, Wartrace, Winchester, and *Woodburg. Texas: *Bonham, Hoston, Carlt-011, *Clarksville, *Cooper, *Emory, *Quitman, and Texarkana. Virgin-ill: Charlotte, Chesterfield, Floyd, and Lunenburg.

Observations of magnetic declination, dip, and intensity were made at the stations specified by tho observer named above between July 1 and December 31, rn11, and between May 7 and Juno 30, rn12. Meridian lines were established ut tho stations marked with asterisks. Selma, Ala., an<l Nashville, Te1m., were repent stations. The stations were murke<l us n. rule with gmnite or limestone posts having brass cups embedded in their tops. These stones varied from 6 to 10 inches squaro and from 2 to 3 feet in length, and were set so as to project from 1 to 4 inches above ground.
NORTH DAKOTA AND W ASlll~GTON.

[E. H. PAGENIIART.]
SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Prirnary haRe lines, 10.479 kilometers. Levels run over base site (douhle line), 10.479 kilometers. Tri.'lngulation: 3,250 square miles of nrea covered, 3 signals erected, 3 ohserving tripods and scaffolds built, 30 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 22 stations occupied for vertical measures, 36 geographic positions determined, 32 elevations determined trigonometrically.

The charge of the party for continuin_g the triangulation on the coast of Washington from tho Columbia River to Grays Harbor and from Grays Harbor to Tacoma was transferred to Mr. E. II. Pagenhnrt on July 1, on which dnte the line clearing and signal building required was nearly completed. Beginmng at stations "Rain (1906)," "Hurst (1906)," and "Hal (1906)," the triangulation wns extended westward to Grnys Harbor, where connection was made with the line "North Jetty" to "Brack," with intersection on "Grays Harbor Lighthouse." Tho main scheme was then extended south to Willupa Bay and connected with stations "Goose (1871)," "Willapn Bay Lighthouse," an<l "Lead (1911),'' all three stations used in the resurvey of Willapa Bay by Assistnnt R. B. Derickson. At the mouth of the Columbia Hiver connection was made with the line "Tillamook Head (1874)" to "Scarboro Hill 2 (1873)." This line is common to tho triangulation at tho mouth of the Columbia River and that extending south to Tillamook Bay. "Saddle Mt. 2," the stntion occupied by Assistant J. S. Hill in 1909, was used; it is not the same as "Saddle 1\H.. (1876)."

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDEXT, COAST AXD GEODETIC SURVEY.

39

The elevations of all new stations were determined by vertical angles, and secondary azimuths were measured at "'Langley," "Pioneer," and "Goose Point." Primary azimuth was measured at "Longitude," Fort Stevens. As nearly all the lines observed had to be cleared, only one intersection statioP., the tide gauge dolphin at Tokeland, used in the sealevel corurnction, was observed. Mr. ,J. S. Hill, assistant, remained with the })ttrty for 16 days in Jul . . . Owing to the broken and mountninous nature of the country, the dense forests necessitnting heavy cutting, lack of communications, and unfavorable weather, this triangulation was an exceedingly difficult piece of work. Fiel<l operat10ns were completed on January 28. Work at the north end of tho primary triangulation alonq the one hundred and fourth meridian was begw1 on May 28 from 1t nase line nieasured in the vicinity of Ambrose, N. Dak., between May 16 and May 27. Connection was made with stations "Bowie" and "School" (N. E. base) of the United Stntes and Canada boundary survey, occupied in 1911, and with station "Bilby" of the same survey, used as a supple~entary stntim~. The work was then ~xt~nde~ southward followmg the reconn01ssance made by Mr. J. S. Bilby m 1911, and had reached sta lions "Gladys" nnd "Marmon" on June 30.
WASHINGTON.

[R. S.
· SUMMARY OF

PATIO!-!,

Commanding steamer E:rplorcr.]

1nge made.

1msu1.Ts.-Hydrography: 47.3 miles run while Hounding, 4,915 sound-

The hydrographic survey of the east and west waterways and off the north end of Harbor Island, Seattle Harbor, which had been begun on April 13 under the direction of Assistant R. B. Derickson, Was continued by the steamer Explorer, under command of Assistant S. Patton, from May 3 un ti! the completion of the necessary sound~gs on June 3. Observations for magnetic declinn.tion, dip, and intensity were made at the Seattle magnetic station. On June 27 the Explorer sailed for Alaska to take up work at the niouth of the Kuskokwim RiYer. Observations on board ship to ~etermine the ship's deYiation, nnd for ma~netic declination, dip, and llttcnsity \Vere made nt Union Bay, Britisn Columbia.

:R.

NEV.ADA AKl> l"J'AH.

IJ011N II.

l'ETEHH.]

SuMMAHY OP nEsu1.Ts.-'l'wo hundred and twelve c>leYations of permanent hench lllarks determined by leveling, 579 miles of leveling run .

. 'Vork on the line of levels between Brigham, Vtah, and San Fmncisco, Cal., following the line of the Southern Pncific Railroad, through the States of Utah, Nevada, and California, had been begun at Bngh am, Utah, in June, and was in progress at the beginning of the fiscal
Year.

40

HEPOH'J' 01-' 8UPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In order to secure a connection with previous work, a line of levels was run from bench mark" R" at Brigham, Utah, to bench mark" Q" at Willard, Utah, a distance of 7 miles to the southward. As this connection was not considered sufficient the line was extended northward from bench mark" R" to bench mark "T" at Deweyville, Utah, a distance of 14 mile8. This gave a satisfactory connection, and the elevation of "R" was used to begin work on the main line. Before making the above connection bench marks "J9" and "K9" were established at Bri~ham, Utah, and while leveling between bench marks "R" and "T" bench mark "L9" was cstabhshed at Honeyville, Utah, to replace bench mark "S" which had been destroyed. Work on the main line was taken up July 11, Hlll, at temporarr, bench mark No. 11, of the connection lme between bench marks "R ' and "T" and was carried on continuou8ly until November 8, Hlll, when, on account of weather conditions, leveling was discontinued at ·Beowawe, Nev., a small town about 48 miles west of Elko, Nev. The first permanent bench mark of the main line set in Utah was "M9" and t1ie last was "Aw" while the first bench mark established in Nevada was "I/' and the lust was "C6" at Beowawe, Nev. All the intermediate bench marks are included in the main line with the exception of bench mark "w!O" (Utah), which is situated on a spur run eastward from the main line to Lucin, Boxeldcr County, UtnJi. The types of permanent bench marks used were tho brass disk, the stono post, and the iron post, with brass cap. Wherever permanent strnctures of stone or concrete were found the brass disk form of mark was used both in the vertical and horizontal surfaces. In other cases the stone post or iron post with brass cap was used. Progress was retarded by heavy grades and the great distances necessary between camping places where water could be obtained. Nevertheless, the averar;c progress made was about 6 miles greater per month than that cturill'' a number of preceding seasons. Transportation was by rail and tents were used for tho accommodation of the party. Toward the latter part of the season permission was obtained from the general manager of the Southern Pacific lines, cast of Sparks, to opemte a gasoline motor velocipede car in the prosecution of the work. Such a car was purchased and was found to add about Hi per cent to the efficiency and also to decrease the cost of transportation of party and outfit. · \Vork closed for tho season on November 28. Operations were resumed at the beginning of March at San Francisco. The line of levels began with a connection between bench marks 6:35, 640, 386, and 418 of the engineer department of the city of San Francisco, all of which had been referred by precise leveling to the tide station nt tho Presidio of San Francisco by a former officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The elevation of bench mark 6:35 being nearest to the tide station was used in beginning the computation. From bench mark 63.5 the line of levels follows the old line of the Southern Pacific Railroad to its junction with the new line of that railway at San Bruno, Cal. From this point the line proceeds in n. southeasterly direction along tho same line to Niles, Cal.; thence cast to Lathrop, Cal; thence northerly to Sacramento; and thence northeasterly to Summit, Placer County, Cal.; to which point the work had been extended by June 30, 1912.

:REl>OJiT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY. WASHINGTON.

41

[J. F.

PRATT.]

Inspection of the portion of tho Pacific coast comprised in the seventeenth Jighthouso <listrict wus ussigne<l to tho above-named officer, with headquarters at Seattle, and he has been continuously on duty since October 18. His duties include answering calls for information concerning charts, surveys, and other matter of mternst to navigators or engineers; the exmmnation of existing charts to discover defects or :mggest improvc1nents; to report tho condition of harbor improvemonts and other ~hanges affecting charts; to dctormino posit10ns of prominent objects useful ns aids to navigation; to suporviso the repairs of vessels ttnd tho iniitallation of machinery on the ships and launches of tho Sun:ey 0~1 tho western co.ast, including tho prPpam~ion o( p~ans and spcc1hcut10~s; and awur<lmg con.tructs fo.r construction. Tlus officer also supervises the work of tho tidal stat10n at Seattle.
CONNECTICUT, NEW YORK, AND NORTH CAROLINA.

ru. P.

Rm·En.J

Su~JMARY oP RES1:I.TR.-Tri.angulation: iiO Aquure miles of urea covered, 13 signal PoleA erected, 5 observing tripod" !\IHI ~caffoklH huilt, 1'1 ~tationH occupied for horizontal measureA, 2:1 geographical posit.ionH detennined. Topof{ntphy: (Chart revision) 12 Hquare miles of urea surveyed, 38 miles of general coast !me surveyed, 2 miles of shore line of creeks, 2 miles of shore line of ponds, 15 miles of roads, 3 topographic sheets fini~hed.

Tho work of triangulation in North Carolina to connect tho trianguln,tion of the Neuse River by tho United States Engineers with that of tho Coast and Geodetic Survey was in progross at tho beginning of tho your. Tho irn;tructions to tho officer in charge of this work <liroctod him to consult with tho officer in charge of tho United Stutes Engineers office at Wilmington, N. C., to ascertain if tho Engineers' triangulntion of tho Nouso River and its tr\butaries had boon connected with threo or moro stations of tho Coast and Geodetic Survey, and, if not, to proceed to tho Neuse River and mako such connoctlons, and also to <lotermino tho googmphic positions of any permanent objects along tho shores, such as church spires, stacks, bon,con;,;, etc., not already connoctod with tho Engineors' triangulation. Tho work done was to bo primary triangulation, und any old station recovered Was to be marked and doscribed if necessary. Tho examination of the maps and rocords of tho Unitod States l~ngineors showed that their triangulation of tho Nouso River lmd boon connected with only one of tho Coast and Goo<lotic Survey trinngulation stations, tho Episcopal church spire at Now Bern, which ho.d boon rebuilt on tho sumo structuro in 1871, since its determination by tho Coast and Goodotic Survey. Although a search had boon mado by tho Engin<wrs for other Coast and Geodetic Survey hio.ngulation stations, nono had been found. Under tho circumstances it was necessary to mako a search for tho stu,tion marks of the 1863-1866 Coast Survey triangulation, having

42

REPORT O.F SUl'EIU:NTEXDENT, COAST .-\~D GEODETIC 8UHVEY.

in view tho recovery of at least three stations, an<l, for tho purpose of having a base lino to start tho now triangulation, two of thorn to be tho ends of some lino dotorminod by tho old survey. This examination was started in tho vicinily of New Bern and extended down tho river without success until tho lower part of tho old triangulation was reached, when four of tho stations of 1866 wero recovered, two of thorn being adjacent. All of these had boon marked with heavy cast-iron screw piles. While looking for tho Coast and Geodetic Survey trinngulation stations search was also mado for availablo station;; of tho Unit(id States Engineers, to bo used in connecting their survey of tho N euso River executed in 1909 and t.heir survey ma<lo in 1907 for a dredged canal now completed, forming an inland waterway between Pamlico Sound and Beaufort Inlet. 'l'ho northern end of this survey was at tho junction of Adams Creek and tho Nouso Hivor, 24 miles below New Bern. By May 27 the necessary triangulation stations wero recovered and tho building of signals commenced. Observation of angles was begun Juno 25 and completed Augm;t 3. During tho latter period the marking of tho n9w and re-marking of tho old triangulation stations was also carried on. Transcripts were made of the field records of surveys of tho Neuse River in the office of tho United States Engineers at Now Bern, and tho observer expresses his grateful acknowledgment of facilities afforded by the ofhcers in charge of .that office. Throughout tho remainder of tho year, except during timo occupied on work of the Mississi,ppi River Commission and attending tho meeting of International Navigation Congress at Philadelphia, tho work of topographic revision of charts in Greater .New York and along tli.e shores of Long Island Sound was steadily continued. The region covered during the year includes the north shore of Long Island Sound from Sheffield Island to W ostcott Cove; north shore of Long Island Sound from Stanfor<l llnrbor to Little Capt11ins Island; Hudson and E11st Rivers from West Sixty-seventh Street to Blackwells Island; Hell Gato and East River from Blackwolls Island to Lawrence Point; Bay Ridge to Gowanus Bay; south end of Raritan Bay; and Hudson River from West Sixty-seventh to West One hundred and thirtieth Streets and west side of river.
TEXAS.

[Enwrn SMITH.]
SuMMAitY OF

HESUJ,Ts.-AHtronomy:

(i

RtationR occupiod

for observations

of

latitude.

Under date of .March 18 ::\fr. Smith was instructed to take the field for tho determination of the latitude of stations nlong tho TexasCalifornia arc of the transcontinental triangulation. Leaving Washington on February 5,the observer reached Ranger, Tex., on February 8. Between that date and Mnrch 12 latitude was observed at six stations-"Lacasf' " "Baird" "Sears" "Bynum" "Stanton" and "Smith." ' ' ' . ' ' On March 13 field work wns closed. and tlw observer returned to Washington.

REPORT OF SUPERl~TENDENT, COAST AND GF.ODETIC SURVEY.
NEW MEXICO, OREG0:-1, A.N"D TEXAS.

43

[EowIN SMITH and C. V. HooosoN.)

SUMMARY OF UESULTs.-Triangulation: 12 signals erected, 18 stations occupied for horizontal measures, lG geographic positions determined. Longitude: 9 stations oecupied.

During the season beginning in September and ending in December two observers working in cooperation made determinations of the longitude of the following places: Fort Stevens, Oreg.; Jarilla, N. Mex.; Boracho, Tex.; St.nnton, TPx.; l\fatagordtt, Tex.; and Sabine Puss, Tex. At Seattle it was decided to use the pier of the observatory at the University of Washington us n buse for the Fort Stevens work, the old station having been destroyed. Signals were exchanged between Fort Stevens and Seattle on September 17, 18, 23, and 24, and the observers then proceeded to El Puso, Tex. The old station at El Paso bPing lost, 11 new station Wtts established. At El Paso signals were exchanged with Jnrilla on October 10, 11, 12, and 13. Tho observations between El Puso and Borucho were completed on October 24. The Boracho pier was connected with a line of the primnry triangulation about 10 m.iles distant. Besides recoverin~ the two primary stations "Kronsc" and "Reynolds," four new stations were built nnd five of the six stations occupied. Exchange of signals between Borucho und St.ant.on wus mude on tho nights of October 30 and 31 and November 5. Mutttgorda and Sabine Pass Were next occupied, using Austin us a base stution. At both of these stations connections were made with tho triungulation. At Austin a new pier was built to tho eastward of the old one. The observations at Sabrne Pass were closed on December 2, which ended the field work of the season. Acknowledgment.is mude of courtesies shown and aid extended by the managers of the Western Union Telegraph Co. in the cities visited, and especially those ut El Pnso, Galveston. and Matagorda.
ILLINOIS, IOWA, KENTUCKY, MINNESOTA, NORTH DAKOTA, AND SOUTH DAKOTA.

[DON I'. 8owEHS.] STATIONS OCCUPIED.-Illinais: Rushville. Iowa: Fort Madison, l\lontozumu, Primghar, and Storm Luke. Kentucky: Calhoun, Campbellville, Columbia, Danville, Edmond ton, and Glasgow. Minmsota: Blue Earth, Buffalo, Caledonia, Fergus Falls, . ~llock, Ivanhoe, .JackMon, Litchfield, Long Prairie, l\ludison, Mahnomen, Red Luke "alls, Rooeau, un<l St. Paul. North Dakota: Cmlselton. Devils Lake, Lumoure, Larrilllllore, Lisbon, New Rockford, and Pemhina. South Dakota: Britton, Canton, ('lurk, uron, and Parker.

Between July 1 nnd September 30 n111gnetic observntions were tnade by the nbovc-named observer at the·stutions mentioned. All of these except three were new stations. Euch new station was Permanently murked with a limestone or cement post with a brass station marker set in the top.

44

REPOR'f OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
NEW YORK AND RHODE ISLAND.

[W. M. STF.IRNAGLE.] SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Triangulation: 36 square miles of area covered, 8 signals erected1 9 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 67 geographic positions determmed.

The revision of the triangulation at the eastern end of Long Island in the vicinity of Mont.auk Point, which had been carried on in turn by Assistants Sobieralski nnd Gauger, was assigned to A<>sistant W. M. Steirn~le on August 15, and the work was taken Uj) by him on the followmg day. ·At that date the triangulation had been extended from Montauk Point as for west as station "Conklin," which had been re-marked. The station known as "Gardiners Island" was next recovered and re-marked and the line from it to "Conklin" used as a base. The stations Acabanoc Cliff and Ram Island being no longer available, two new stations, "Woodhouse" and "Cartwright," were established so as to give a central point figure that commanded in a very satisfactory way nearly all the objects in Napeague Bay. Station "Gardiners Island" was re-marked. During the progress of the work there were determined the positions of 11 buoys and a number of prominent objects useful as landmarks and for the topography and mshore hydrography. On the completion of tlie foregoing work on September 6 the triangulation on Block Island, R. I., was taken up. After a reconnoissance of the entire island the station ''Block Island" was recovered and marked in a permanent manner and three new stations, "Southwest," "Sandy Hill," and "Clay Head," were selected. Especial care was taken in marking the new stations nn<l in establishing reference marks for them. There were determined in position, besides the 3 new stations, 6 buoys, 5 harbor lights, 3 life-saving stations, 2 Weather Bureau signal towers, and a number of other prominent objects. Field work was closed on September 20.
TEXAS.
[PAt:J,

M.

THUEBJ,OOD.)

SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Triangulation: 400 square miles of area covered, 38 signal poles erected, 6 observing tripods built, 28 stations occupied for horizontal measureB, 28 geographic positions determined.

Between January 15 and April 22 a revision was made of the triangulation of Corpus Christi Bay and Laguna Madre, Tex. Field work began January 24 with the re-marking and rebuilding of station "McGloins Bluff." Station ".Mustang'' was found to be in good condition, and two new stations were established and determined in Corpus Christi Bay, namely, "Shamrock," near the south end of Shamrock Island, and "Oso," at the mouth of Oso Creek. After building tho necessary signals in Baffins Bay the party was divided, one section continuing the work of signal building on the mainland to tho south and the other the signal building and observing in the upper part of the laguna.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

45

The following ol<l stations were recovered: "Cornus," "McGloins Bluff," "Mustang," "North Base," "South Base," ttTopo." Station "Padro" is known to be lost. A number .of points on the edges of flats, windmills, gn.bles of houses, etc., wore determined bv intersections. Old stations "Grants," "Peat. Island," "Chappo./' "Mott " "H.ichards D " "Pt of Rocks " "Wheelbarrow " "Griffins " ' 'Shells'' ' "Penescal"' "Rabbit" . ' ' "Cofcote" ' "Crawford" "Frank" ' 'Indian,"" ' Avoca," 'and "Mosquito" ' ' ' ' were searched for but not ound, although in some cases the remains of old signals were found. In place of the foregoing, 33 new stations were established and permanently marked, after being determined in position. Tidal bench marks at Port Aransas and Point Isabel were inspected, and three new marks were established at Port Aransas.
CALIFORNIA, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, ILLINOIS, INDIANA, IOWA, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA, NEVADA, NEW YORK, OREGON, WASHINGTON, AND WYOMING.

[T. L. WARNER.]
SuMl!ARY OF R·:suLTs.--Gravity: 18 pendulum Atations occupied.

During the season from July 10 to November 27 determinations of the relative intensity of grav1t.y, using half-second pendulums, were made at the following stations, given in the order of their occupation: Prentice, Wis.; Fergus Falls, Minn.; Sheridan, Wyo.; Boulder, Mont.; Skykomish, Wash.; Olympia, Wash.; Heppner, Oreg.; Truckee, Cal.; Winnemucca, Nev.; Ely, Nev.; Guernsey, Wyo.; Pi.erre, S. Dak.; Fort Dodge, Iowa; Keithsburg, ill.~ Grand Rapids, Mich.; Angola, Ind.; Albany, N. Y.; Port Jel'VIS, N. Y.; and Washington, D. C. Suitable locations for _gravity stations were readily obtained in all places visited except Albany, N. Y., where o. slight difficulty was experienced. Some delay was caused by the necessity of waiting for suitable weather for astronomic observations. The average time per station was 7.9 days. The unit cost per station was less than for tho previous season. By certain changes in the method of operations a considerable saving of time was affected. The chan~e most worthy of note mo.de in the method of field work was the suostitution of a wooden pier for the concrete one which it had been customary to use in gravity work. The new form of pier was constructed of four posts each about 8 inches square and 5 feet long. These were firmly fastened together so as to form a pier 16 by 24 inches on top, set in the ground about 2 feet, with the soil around and between the posts well packed. The part of the pier above ground Was tightly boarded on all sides. Besides the saving in time and expense this pier has given very good results. This im:provement was suggested by Mr. William Bowie, Inspector of Geodetic Work. The period of ea.ch Jlendulum was determined separately at the restandardization at the close of the season. A considerable change in the period of pendulum B, took place between Albany and Port Jervis, N. Y., the co.use of which has not been determined. Its period during that time was slightly increased. The theory that a large range of temperature causes an increase in the probable error of observation was not borne out by the results of this work.

46

REPORT O.F SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
ARIZO:-IA.
[L~OYD

\\'. \\'EED.]

At the Tucson magnetic observatory the usual observations were made~ The Eschenhagen magnetograph and Bosch-Omori seismograph were operated without interruption, and the required absolute observations, scale-value dett>rmination, and magnetograph and seismograph records were obtained. Specrn.l rapid-rate registration was carri0cl out on specified term days each month in accordance with requests for international cooperation with Antarctic expeditions. Daily meteorological observations were made and reported to the local wcatht>r office at Phoenix, Ariz. About 50 earthquakes were recorded during the year, a slight increase over the previous year. Some minor repairs to the buildings were made.
CA!,11"01011.\.

(F. WESTDAHL, July 1toMay31; F. l\fo&sE, June 1 to .June SO.]

The suboffice at San Francisco has been maintained during the year, tlrn work including correspondence relating to matters of interest on the Pacific coast, replying to requests for information respecting charts and surveys, tidal data, and other matters, the forwarding of instruments and supplies sent from Washini;:ton to field parties in the Philippines, Hawaii, and Alaska, payment ot travel expenses and issue of trans:r>0rtation orders to officers passing through San Francisco to the field or returning. Desk room for officers temporarily on duty at San Francisco has been provided. Additional bench marks were established at the Presidio tidal station and levels were run between the fixed tide staff and the bench marks. Supervision has been maintained over the work of the Presidio tide station. An inspection was made of the agencies for the sale of charts in San Francisco. Contracts were made for the bui1ding of four boats for use in the Philippine Islands, and these were completed and shipped. It having become desirable to establish new bench marks in connection with the tide station at tho Presidio, San Francisco, Cal., a suitable location for the purpose was selected on the concrete abutment or sea wall at the base of the wharf. This abutment has been in existence for many years, and is apparently well settled and solid. The inshore side of the abutment was selected for one of the new marks and another was established on its top surface. Copper bolts placed i.n drilled holes and leaded constitute the bench marks. Lines of levels were run between the nflw bench marks and the fixed tide staff and connection was also made with the old bench marks. This work was done on May 8 and 11.
MAINE, MARYLAND, AND TEXAS.

[IsAAC WrNBTON.]

SuMllARY OF RESULTB.-Triangulation: 87fi square miles of area covered, 25 signal poles erected, I observing scaffold built, 54 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 143 geographic positions dewrmined.

The field revision of the triangulation on the coast of Maine in the vicinity of Portland, and the determination of the position of aids to

REPORT OP SUPERI~TEXDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

47

navigation and of prominent landmarks for insertion on the chart.6, was begun early in September. The United States engl.neer officer at Portland placed the records of his office at the disposal of the Coast and Geodetic Survey and assigned an assistant engineer to point out the location of triangulation which had been established in preparing a fire-control system and in the surveys for the improvement of Portland Harbor. This triangulation is based upon that of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. All of the important stations were recovered and supplementary descriptions made to show their prPsent condition. A hydrographic survey having recently been made in connection with the inlprovement of the harbor, copies were obtuined and transmitted to the office. Copies were also obtained of topographical surveys made by the city engineer of Portland. The lighthouse inspector of the district furnished a list of prominent objects useful for insertion on the charts. All of the fornd aids to navii ation in Casco Bay and several shoals not shown on the charts were1.ocated, as also was a ledge and rocks off Yarmouth Island on which Dr. F. I. Proctor's yacht had struck. The positions of all permanent wharves were determined. Notes Were made to show the condition of the aids to navigation, the condition of the rocks and islands, whether wooded or hare, and the heights estimated where no conto~I'S were shown on the ~harts. A plan of South Portland showmg the streets actually m use was obtained, the trolley lines leading out of Portland were located, and a blue print was obtained showmg the location of the Texas Co.'s new wharf and tlw dredged area in front of this wharf. Photographs Were obtained when practicable of prominent objects located. Acknowledgment is made of assistance rendered und data furnished by Col. Vv. E. Craighill, United States Engineers, and his assistants, a_nd to Mr. Bion Bradbury, city engineer of Portland. Field operations closed on November 18. On December 7 a determination wus made of the position of the Italian steamer Fortuna, which had stranded on the beach about 1! miles north of Ocean City, Md. The Fortuna, an iron vessel of about 2,500 tons, was bound for Philadelphia from Buenos Aires. In a storm on December 4 she was carried on Fenwick Island Shoals, and When gotten off it was found that she was leaking so badly that the captain decided to beach her. ·while at Ocean City information was obtained in regard to certain abandoned fish pounds offshore constituting a danger to navigation and also in regard to prominent objects to be used ns landmarks on the charts. On December 9 instructions were issued to the nbove-named officer to take up the revision of the triangulation of the coast of Texas, beginning at West Bay and Oyster Bay, in the vicinity of Galveston, of Corpus Christi Bay and Sabine Pass and Lake; from Sabine Pass to East Bay; Oyster Bay to Brazos River, and Brazos River to Matagorda Bny, mcluding the detcr1nination of the position of lighthouses and beacons an<l of prominent objects useful as aids to navigation; the recovery and re-marking of old triangulation stations nnd the inspection of tidal bench marks at various points. Nearly all of the triangulation stations established in 1900 by the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, in the survey of Galveston
1

48

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AKD GEODETIC SURVEY.

Bay were recovered and five old Coast and Geodetic Survey stations were found. All stations close to the shore line were destroyed by a storm in 1900. It was found that the United States Engineers had extended a triangulation from the Coast and Geodetic Survey work at Sabine Pass to cover Snbine Lake and the Nueces River to Beaumont, Tex., and Sabine H,iyer to Orange, Tex., and copies of the data necessary to compute this work were obtained. Data and blue prints of recent surveys of the south shore of Sabine Lake, the Nueces River to Beaumont, and the Sabine River to Orange, and of Galveston Bay were also obtained from the United States Engineers. The beacons recently established in Galveston Bay were located, and a triangulation was extended from Galveston Bay to Brazos River, a distance of 50 miles, covering West Bay, Oyster Bay, and the coast to Brazos River. This triangulation was based on two lines in the Galveston Bay triangulation and extends to known positions on the Brazos River. A number of channel beacons along the inland waterways were located and other material collected for use in chart correction. A search was made for old triangulation stations at the head of M9.tagorda Bay, but none were found. At Corrus Christi ;;;overal triangulation stations recovered by Assistant Harold D. King in 1905 were visited and found in good condition. Several prominent objects at Aransas Pass and Port Aransas were located. A number of tillal bench marks were inspected and several new ones established. Data were obtained from the United States Engineers of a survey for an inland waterway through Laguna Madre. Field work was closed on June 1.
ALASKA.

[F. L. ADAMS.]

The magnetic observatory u.t Sitka, Alaska, has continued i~ operation. The Eschenhagen magnetograph an<l the Bosch-Omor1 seismogrnphs made continuous records throughout the year, and the reguired absolute observations, scale value determinations, and daily meteorological observations were made. About 85 earthquakes were observed. Special observations were made in studying irregularities in the results obtained with the earth inductor. Special rap1drate registration was carried out on specified term days in each month in compliance with requests for internn.tional cooperation. Necessary minor repairs to the buildings were made.
[R. B. DERICKSON', Commanding Steamer Gedney.]
SuM:llARY OF RESULTs.-Triangulation: 38 square miles of area covered, 26 signal poles erected, 29 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 28 geogmphic yositions determined. Topography: 24.4 square miles of area 11urveyed, 53.25 miles o general coast line surveyed, 2 topographic sheets finished. Hyd~raphy: 22.7 square miles sounded, 473.9 miles of soundings, 4,556 positions letermmed, 12,832 soundings, 4 tide stations established, 4 hydrographic sheets finisned.

During the summer season, beginning August 24 and closing October 16, the party on the steamer Gedney com_Eleted the hydrography and topograrhy of Tongass Narrows from Ketchikan to Spire lsfand, including the head of Nichols Passage in the vicinity of Walden Rocks; the hydrography of Wrangell Strait from B1,1rn~

REPORT OF SUPERI~TENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

49

Island to Sumner Straits and the development of the supposed 3 and 4 foot spots in the vicinity of buoy No. 11, orposite Petersburg; and the hydrographic and topographic survey o the approaches to the McAndrew Copper Co.'s wharf in Kasaan Bay. The vessel sailed from Seattle on August 7 for the working ground in southeastern Alaska, stopped at Union Bay for coal, and arrived on August 16 at :Metlakatla, where the steamer Cosmos and launch No. 117 were placed in the water and prepared for active fieldwork. During the passage from Union Bay to l\Ictlakatla the ship was swung at two places to determine the magnetic declination. Fog and cloudy weather prevented swings at other places along the route. A party on the steamer Cosmos took up the hydrographic survey at tho southern end of Wrangell Strait and carried this work from Burnt Island to well off the entrance to tho south end of the strait. The triangulation stations established during the previous season were recovered and a number of auxiliary points were detormined and connected with the main scheme in order to give controlling points in the small bays and bights where soundings were taken. The tidal bench marks established in 1910 in the vicinity of Burnt Island were recovered and connected with the tide staff from which tides were read during the progress of tho work. Additional bench marks were established for the new staff, which was located opposite Mitkof post office, 1 mile below Burnt Island. Tho development of the main channel shows no material change from that shown on the existing charts, with tho exception that the shoal shown as making off Point Alexander docs not exist, making it possible for vessels to pruis close to the point. A small 4-fathom patch was found near the southwestern point but well out of the track of vessels. While the Cosmos was at work in Wrangell Strait tho remainder of the party on the Gedney was engaged in the hydrogruphy and topograpl:i.y of Tongass Narrows, tho work beginning at Pennock Island and extending down Revillagigedo Channel to the vicinity of Spire Island. This includes the area south of Nichols Passage to Blank Islands. The triangulation stations of tho previous sen.son were all recovered, signals built, and the topography and hydrography carried on simultaneously. An automatic tide gauge was established on the .Mill Wharf at Ketchikan and connected with tho bench marks established in 1906. Tides were recorded at this station until tho close of the season. By October 9 the main part of the survey of Tongass Narrows was completed. Tho Cosmos returned from the work in Wrangell Strait, and the Gedney and launches proceeded to Kasaan Bay to survey the wharf of tho l\foAndrew Copper .Minin~ Co. Signals were built, a tide staff set up, and continuous readm~ made for four days, simultaneously with those on the automatic gauge at Ketchikan. The shore lino was run in with the plane table. The waters in the approaches and vicinity of the wharf were closely developed and plotted as the work progressed. In tho meanwhile an effort was made to extend the triangulation down from the head of Kasaan Bay. Three old stations established in 1906 and 1fl08 were recovered and marked, a reconnoissance made, and signals erected, but the
~7901°-1~

50

REPORT 01" SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

abrupt closing of the season by unfavorable weather prevented anything more being done than the carrying of an azimuth through to the hydrographic and topographic work. Tho Gedney and launches returned to Ketchikan October 16, and theneo proceeded to Metlakatla, where the Cosmos and launch No. 117 were hauled out and housed for the winter. After coaling at Ketchikan the Gedney sailed for Seattle, arriving October 30. On May 24, 1912, tho Gedney sailed from Seattle for Alaska via Union Bay, British Columbia, arriving at Ketchikan May 30. Launch No. 117 was placed in commission, and while the Cosmos was being repaired the Gedney, with launch No. 117, proceeded to Kasaan Bay to complete the triangulation left unfinished last year. While tfus was bemg done a number of soundings were taken in the vicinity of the McAndrew Wharf to verify some doubtful soundings obtained during the previous season. It was found that the sounding line showing 8 feet, 28 meters southeast and outsidfl of the line of the McAndrew Dock, was in error. A least depth of 13 feet was obtained close to the line of tho face of the dock. On June 16 the triangulation extcndi.ng from Karta Bay to the McAndrew Wharf was completed and the vessel returned to Metlakatla. The Cosmos was launched and began work with launch No. 117 and the Gedney in Tlevak Straits. Oki triangulation stations were recovered, a tide station establislwd, and the survey commenced on June 20.
[F. II. HARDY, Commanding Steamer Yukon.] SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Triangulation: ,5 stationA occupied for horizontal measures, 6 geographic positions detem1incd. Topography: 75 miles of general coast surveyed, 1 t-OpO!!'!'Rphic sheet complewd. Hydrography: 2:15 Rquaro mile~ of area covered, 875.5 miles run while sounding, 2,68 l posit.ions determined, 12,081 soundingH, 1 tidal station cgtablishcd, 2 hydrugrnphic sheets completed.

The party on the steamer Yukon at the beginning of the fiscal year was in the field engaged in the survey of the west shore of Cook Inlet. Surveying opPrntions were continued until September 17, wh<.'n the Yukon was housed over and secured for the winter, and on October 5 the party proceeded to Se1ittle, arriving there October 17. Durmg the season the hy<lrogmphy and topography of the west shore of Cook Inlet were completed from 'Vest Forel11n<l south to and including Kalgin Island. The west shore of Cook Inlet from Harriet Point north to the Kustatan River is low and covered with a growth of trees extending about 2 or 3 miles back, then rises in a steep mountain range, the most prominent peaks being Mount Redoubt and the two peaks called Double and Black. The Butte, on which the triangulation signal of that name is located, is one of the most prominent landmarks. Harriet Point is a prominent point on the west shore about abreast of the south end of Kalgin Island. There is a ~ood anchorage in moderate weather on the north side of Harriet Pomt. Kalgin Island is about 11 miles long and 2.50 feet high n.t its southern and northern ends. The best anchornge in this locality is off the north end of this island. Several sunken rocks were found off the northeast point of Kalgin Island, but no rocks were found south of the sand shoal midway between West Forelan<l and Kalgin Island. ·

REPORT OF 8UPERINTENDENT, COAST ANO GEODETIC 8UHVEY.

51

Reports were submitted by the chief of party and by Mr. I. M. Dailey in regard to the volcanic eruption at Mount Katmai on June 6 . . Assistance was rendered the revenue cutter .~fanning by conveying letters and provisions to the rel.ief station at Afognak, where the refugees had been taken from Katmai and other villares. The fall of ashes from the volcano was about 18 inches on the level at Kodiak, with drifts in some of the valleys from 4 to 8 feet, but the inhabit1mts Were not in danger.
[C. G. QurLLIA:-<, Commanding Steamer McArthur.] SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Triangulation: 500 square miles of are(! covered, 12 signals erected, 9 geographic poAit.ions determined, 17 elevations determined tri~onometri· cally. Magnetic work: 11 land stations ocrupied, 2 sea stations occupiea. Topog· l'aP.hy: 424 square miles of area covered, 156} mileH of general coast line surveyed, 15 nules of shorn line of crcek8 and sloughs surveyed, 8 miles of roads, 4 topogrnphical sheets completed. Hydrography: 8G:l.5 square miles of area covered, 202.84 mileil run while sounding, 5,880 posit.ion8 determined, 2G,048 soundiug-8, 2 tidal stations established, l automatic tide gauge erected, (i currentHtationsoccup1ed, Ghydrogruphic sheets completed. ·

Arm.

. In April and May, 1912, preparations were ma.de for resuming work m Cook Inlet. The steamer Yukon was repaired at Seldovia and supplies and outfit were taken on board. The launch Alpha was put in commission and repaired. On June 14 the rock off Dangerous Cape, entrance to Port Graham, on which the Yulcon struck during the P.revious season, was located. Two triangulation signals were rebuilt, and at the close of June the party was at work in Turnagain

During the season beginning June 2 surveying operations in Cook Inlet, Afaska, were extended by the party in the steamer McArthur from Harriet Point southward to Point Chinitna and joinin[ the Work done in 1910 by the party on tho steamer Patterson. ~·rom liarriet Point to the southward of Chisik Island lines of soundings Were run offshore at distances of half a mile npart, widening to the southward to nearly 2 miles apart off Chinitna, with an interval extending about 6 miles offshore and outside of the launch work. 'I'he topography was completed to a point a short distance south of Chinitna Bay. · By July 1 tho work of signal building in the vicinity of Harriot Point, which had been begun on ,June 9, was completed; the signals l'liequired for the survey had been erected to and mcluding Tuxedni arbor, and hydrogmphic an~ topogmp~1ic work was .in progress. A base line was measured m Tuxedm Harbor, a smgle figure of trian~ulation was made use of to bring in azimuth and geographical Posit10ns, and tho remninder of the harbor w11s surveyed by planetable traverse. A si..n~le tria.ngulntion figuro was used also to check the _position of signal "Wood," tho termination of the traverse southward from Harriet Point. Tl~e topography and inshorn hydrogrnphy from Harriet Point to C 'his1k Island were surveyed on a scale of 1/40,000, as was the upper arn1 of Tuxedni Harbor. Tho mnin portion of Tuxedni Harbor wns surveyed on a scale of 1/20,000. Southward of Tuxedni Harbor thrre wer0 only two located points on the sheet, Chinitna at the southern extremity and Iliarnna at the northern, with an approximate detern1ination of Bear Flat between

52

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDE~T, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

them, and about 10 miles from Iliamna. To avoid the great expense and time required to locate signals by triangulation, the main control having been completed previously, the summits of the first range of hills were cut in, the positions of the distinctive peaks computed, and these were used to check the traverse for locating the inshore hydrographic signals and determining the shore line. A plane-table traverse was carried to and around Chinitna Bay and about halfway between Chinitna Bay and signal "Chinitna." The inshore hydrography on a scale of 1/40,000, as was also the topography southward of Chinitna Harbor, was completed to a point '.l miles south of the south point of the entrance to Chinitna Bay, and the survey of Chinitna Bay on the same sheet was completed. The outside hydrography <lone by the ship was on a scale of 1/100,000, the distance between sounding lines varying from onchalf mile in the northern half of the sheet to 2 miles in the southern; and the length of line varying from 9 miles at the northern end of the sheet to 20 miles at the southern end. In general, the lines were normal to the shore, and the work joined that of Assistant F. II. Hardy above Harriet Point, the inshore work of the McArthur during the same season, and the ship soundings by the Patterson in 1910. The bottom was found usually to be of sand or clay and free from irregularities. Mountain peaks were used as signals over nearly the entire area. While soundmg, a number of peaks were cut in by sextant angles and sextant vertical angles were takcri, and with this base rough 1,000-foot contours were sketched in. Back of Chinitna Bay intersecting cuts could not be obtained and both distances and elevations were estimated. Continuous tide observations were made with an automatic ~auge at Seldovia during the season. Staff gauges were maintained m Tuxedni Harbor and Chinitna Bay while the parties were in camp in those localities. Compass declinometer observations of magnetic declination were made at several triangulation stations, and at other shore stations, including Ketchikan and Union Bay, on the voyage south, and the ship was swung in several positions at sea. Current observations were made off Cape Kasilof, at Tuxedni Harbor, and at other points. 'York in Cook Inlet closed for tho season on September 28. At Fritz Cove a reported shoal was sounded over and examined with a drag. The shoal spot was found to be south of its reported position, with a least depth of 6 feet at mean low water, instead of 3 feet as reported. The automatic tide gauge at Skagway was removed, and afterwards established on the Pacific Coast Steamship Co.'s wharf at Juneau. The elevation of the gauge was referred by leveling to bench marks on shore, and while this was being done a plane-table traverse on a scale of 1/5,000 was made of tho water front at Juneau. Returning from Alaska the McArthur snilcd from Juneau on November 3 and arrived in Seattle on November 14. The McArthur returned to Alaska in June, 1912. At Treadwell and Douglass examinations were made of the shorc·line, and a planetable traverse on a scale of 1/10,000 was run from station "Pump"

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

53

to Sheep Creek. A title staff was set up at Douglass an<l comparative readings made with Juneau. On June 7 a fall of ashes from the er':Jption of Mount Katmai on the Alaska Peninsula was noticed. Hydrographic work was done in the channel to determine the amount of filling due to the deposit of tailings from the mines. The results of the survey show that the Treadwell mill has filled in a section about 1,000 meters long and extending about 250 meters from the shore. The 10-fathom curve is about 50 meters outside of this bank. It has filled in nearly to the face of the dock, and Vessels discharging there frequently ground at low water. A clear channel of about 900 meters between the 10-foot curves is open, With depths from 20 to 26 fathoms over the greater part of the channel. After completing work at Juneau, a rcconnoissance was made for ,carrying a scheme of triangulation into Aialik Bay, a tide gauge was established, signals were built for the triangulation, topography, and hydrography, and the occupation of stations in the triangulation Was begun. A report was made concerning the eruption of Katmai Volcano and the fall of ashes on the mainland and adjacent islands, which, besides destroying vegetation, hud covered up the station marks established by the Survey, making their recovery difficult.
[W. E. PARKEH, Commanding Steamer Patterson.] SUMMARY m· RESULTB.-Reconnoissance: 27 lines of intervisibility determined, 10 points selected for scheme. 'friangulat.ion: 800 square miles of area covered, 5 signals erected, 2 observing tripods built, 17 stations occupied for horiont.al measures, 8_ stations occupied for vertical menaures, 35 geographic positions determined, 14 elevahons determined trigonometrically. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth: 1 latitude station ocCUJ?ied, 1 azimuth station occupied. Magnetic work: 13 stations occupied for observations of magnetic declination, i stations occupied for obHCrvations of tn'.1-gnetic dip and intensity. Topography: 84.5 square miles of area surveyed, 151.5 tniles of coast line surveyed, 3 topographic sheets completed. Hydrography: 172 ~iuarc miles of area covered, 1,116 miles run while sounding, 6,974 angles measured, ,135 soundings made, 5 hydrographic Rhect8 completed.

Work on the coust of Alaska in the vicinity of Dolgoi Island had been begun by the party on the steamer Patternon on May 19, 1911. 'I'hhe work of the season included the triangulation, topography, and Y<lrography of Alaska Peninsula. A base line 1,988 meters in ~ngth had been measured on the north shore at the hend of Volcano . ll.Y with an invar 50-metor ta).le, and from this base the triangulation was extended over the entire region to be surveyed. ·The Patterson proceeded to Unalaska for coal on May 28 and then ~turned to the working ground, reaching Dolgoi Island on June 7. fV hile waiting for an opportunity to coal the vessel was swung off Dt!tch Harbor to determine compass deviation on all collrscs. Reconro1ssancc, signal building, and triangulation in the vicinity of Dolgoi . sl~nd were then resumed. An automatic t.ide gauge was set UP. ~hs1de the harbor, from which continuous records were obtained until e close of work in the vicinity. . On June 15 the launch Reynard dragged anchor in a heavy sea, dent on a rocky shore, and sunk. The launch was got. afloat the next only slightly damaged. d ailing to obtain star observations for latitude nnd nzimuth, a etermmation of latitude was made by vertical angles on the sun

ll.i

54

UEPOHT OF SUPERI~TENDRNT, COART AN'D m<:ODETIC SURVEY.

near the meridian and several sets of horizontal angles were taken during the morning and afternoon at nearly equal altitudes for azimuth. Topographic work was begun June 24 and hydrography on June 27 beginning with the passages between Dolgoi Island and the mainland and between the Ilrnsk Islands, but when work in these places was impracticable on account of weather conditions surveys were made wherever possible. Dolgoi Harbor was surveyed on a scale of
1/20,000.

On July 1 the Patterson returned to Unalaska for coal, leaving a shore party with two lannches and Rmull boats at Dolgoi Bay to continue the field work. In -returning from U nalasku in a fog on July 12 the vessel touched slightly on a shoal or rock about halfway between Scotch Cap Lighthouse and Middle Point. Transportation from Unalaska to King Cove was furnished to Mr. Alexander Wetmore, of the United States Biological Survey, and his assistant, who were engaged in collecting birds and mammals on the Aleutian Islands. Much difliculty was experienced with the engine of the launch Reynard, which required frequent repairs and finally became completely disabled. Several triangulation schemes for connecting with the stations located by Assistant \Vestdahl on Umga and Amugat Islands were laid out, but considerable reconnoissance was necessary before a practicable solution was found. The station on Amugat was recovered and the old signal on Umga was found and repaired. The weather conditions here prevented any observing. At the end of July the shore party was taken on board and efforts directed toward completing all work around Dolgoi Island. On August 14 and 15 latitude and azimuth sights were obtained at the astronomical pier in Dolgoi Harbor. All work in this vicinity was completed by August 18. The eastern, southern, and western sides of Dolgoi Island, the Iliask Islands, and the mainland from East Bay to Kitchen Anchorage in Belkofski Bay, including Volcano and Bear Bay, were surveyed by plane table on a scale of 1/40,000. The northern side of Dolgoi Island1 southern end of Ukolnoi Island, western side of Poperechnoi Islanel, and the remainder of Belkofski Buy were sketched from plane-table cuts to tangents and intersections on natural and artificial objects on the shore. The hydrography of the passage between Dolgoi Island and the ma:Wi\yNl. · a)Hl between tho Iliasik Islands and of the adjacent waters~ 1~~clu<ling Volcano Buy, was executed on a sheet of the same scale .. A new channel between Inner lliasik Island and the mainland was, developed, but this channel is too shoal and narrow to be of much beq~dit to commerce. A hydrographic and topographic survey of Dolgoi Harbor was made on a 1/20,000 scale. On August 19 the party moved to the vicinity of Deer Island to completo the connectmg triangulation. While cruising in this vicinity soundings were taken and position determined by sextant angles. The observers at the triangu111tion stations also got m11ny cuts to points and tangents. These were plotted on a sheet and the intervening shore liiie sketched in. The triangulation was completed on August 21, and the vessel sailed for Unalaska. Magnetic observ~

REPORT OF SUPEHI);TENDENT, COA::i'l' A.:-\D UEODJ<j'J'JC SURVJ<~Y.

55

tions for declination, dip, horizontal, and totul inil'miity were rnadc at the station at Dutch Harbor. An examination was made of thereporkd positions of Leonard Rock and Anderson Rock with npgative results, no indications of such dangers being discovered. A least depth of 4 fathoms was found in a kelp patch between Aleks and Omida Rocks. A reported rock and shoal near Cupe Pankof were searched for, but nothing was found to indicate their existence, and an examination of the south point at the entrance to West Anchor Cove showed no such reef as indicated on the chart. A survey was made of West Anchor Cove, which was found to afford an excellent harbor for the largest vessels, being easy of access and quite free from dangers. The ship was swung at West Anchor Cove, magnetic observations were made at a stntion on shore, the shore line from Bold Cape to Cold Bay was sketched, and a line of soundings run along this coast and around Belkofski Buy. A shoal with 5 fathoms of water reported by Mr. S. Applegate was found on a line between Acherk Harbor and Amugat Island and 9 miles from the former. Magnetic observations were repeated at Dutch Harbor and the vessel again swung, and on the return voyage magnetic observntiom; were made at sea. The Patterson stiiled for Scuttle on October 4; stopped at Ketchikan for provisions and water on the 12th, and at Union Bay for coal on the 17th, at which place magnetic observations were made, and arrived at Seattle on October 19.
[11. W. RnoDES, Commanding Steamer .Explorer.] SUMMARY o~' RESULTs.-Reconnoi~ce: 320 square miles of area covered, 82 lines of intervisibility determined. BllBe lines: 1 secondary, length of 2,329.2 meters. Triangulation: 111 square miles of area covered, 21 signal poles erected, 9 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 8 stations occupied for vertical measures, 14 geographic positions detennined, 30 elevations determined trigonometrically. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth work: ! latitude station occupied, ! longitude station occupied, 1 azimuth station occupied. Magnetic work: 4 land stations occupied for declination, -dip, and intensity, 6 sea stations occupied for declination, 8 sea stations occupied for dip, 7 sea stations occupied for intensity, 7 complete swings of ship. Topography: 25 square miles of area surveyed 1 32.7 miles of general coaBt line surveyed, 5.8 miles of rivers surveyed, 1 topographic sheet completed. Hydrography: 5 square miles of area sounded, 139.5 miles run while sounding, 636 positions detem1ined, 3,566 soundings1 1 tidal station established, 1 current station occupied, 1 hydrographic sheet finisned.

Instructions issued in March to the commanding officer of the steamer Explorer directed that the party on thut vessel take up as soon as practicable the survey of Kuskokwim Bay, Alaska, including tho triangulation, topography, and hydrography. A preliminary survey of the approaches to the Kuskokwirn had been made by the Explorer during the preceding :fiscul year, and urgent requests for the completion of the work hud been received from the Seattle Chamber of Commerce and others interested in tho navigation and commercial development of that portion of the Alaska coast. The Explorer was delayed in San Francisco undergoing extensive repairs until July 12, when she sailed via Seattle for Unalaska, Alaska. Arriving at the latter place on July 30, a supp_ly of coal was taken on board and the vessel proceeded to Goodnews Bay, where a party was landed to begin work. It was then found necessary to take the vessel immediately to Nushagak for supplies. On September 11 the vessel

56

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

made another trip to Nushagak for coal, it having been found impossible to engage a vessel to transport coal to the locality of tho work. These trips considerably shortened the season available for field operations. A base line was measured at Goodnews Bay; an azimuth and an approximate latitude and longitude determined, but unfavorable weathC'r greatly delayed the progress of the triangulation. Twelve triangulation stations were established and eight of them were occupied, the trian~ulution covering a stretch of about 18 miles, with Goodnews Bay in tile center. No offshore hydrography was done, as at first the determination of the mountain peaks was not far enough advanced to permit their use in that work, and during the last two weeks of the season they were almost continually obscured by clouds. While awaiting favorable weather for continuing the reconnoissance and triangulation a hydrographic survey was made of the entrance and a part of the inside channel of Goodnews Bay. One topographic sheet on a scale of 1/20,000 of the outside shore line in the vicinity of Goodnews Bay was about two-thirds completed. Field work in Kuskokwim Bay was closed on September 22, owing to continued unfavorable weather, and the vessel proceeded to Unalaska, arriving there September 24.
[GILBER'r

T. RuoE, Commanding Steamer Taku.]

Sum.rARY OF RESULTs.-Reconnoissancc: 288 square miles of area covered. Triangulation: 12 signal poles erected. Topography: 37.l square miles of area covered, 79.3 miles of coast line surveyed, 4 topogoraph1cal sheets fini.Bhed. liydrography: 100 square miles of area covered, 845.8 miles run while sounding:, 6,184 soundmg!!, 4,897 positions determined, 1 tidal station occupied, 1 square mile of area covered with drag, 8 hydrographic sheets finished.

At the beginning of the year the party on the steamer Taku was at work in Prince William Sound, Alaska, engaged on the topo· graphy of Xuked, Peak, and Storey Islands, the necessary triangulation having been completed in June. For additional topogrnphic control a plane-table triangulation was carried through Liljgren and McPherson Passages. The topographical work was completed by August 8. The shore line of the three islands is rocky, but not so abrupt as to furni<;l1 serious difficulty for plane-table work. The hills arc regular in form and cusily contoured. The h,Y<lrography was begun on Juno 21 and completed on August 15. Tins includes ull the bays indenting Naked, Peak and Storey Islunds and the passages between those islands. The hydrography was carried offshore to join work previously done b_y other parties, and a search was made for a rock reported between Naked and Smith lslands. This aroa was thoroughly examined, but no indication was found of the existence of such a rock. An area about 6 square mifos in extent was covered with soundings, ranging from 80 to 100 fathoms and the soundings closely spaced. The foul ground, showing 18 fathoms on chart 8550, H· miles northwest of Little Smith Islands, was developed thoroughly. Eight fathoms was the least water found by running radiating lines with the steamer and afterwards drifting with the current in a dinghy and feeling with a hand lead. Lines were run in this way in the dinghy over the whole of the

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

57

doubtful area. Very' few shoals or foul areas were found off tho north, east, or south shoros of the islands, but the bottom was found to be \rery irregular off the west shores, necessitating a close system of sounding lines over these areas. , An automatic tide gauge, in connection with a staff gauge, was ~.tablished in Liljgren anchorage for this work, and a continuous tidal record was obtained from Juno 16 to August 16. On August 18, when tho vessel was on its way from Naked Island to Green Island, several lines of soundings were run between Smith and Sea.I Islands, where the steamer Latouche reported hn.vingfound a depth of 12 fathoms. The topography of Green Island and t.ho srnall islands near by was completed on September 16 and the hydrography on the 20th. The bottom was thoroughly developed along the west side of tho island from the north point to the south 'Point and offshore to join previous surve~s. This area is very foul and covered with kelp in many places. 'I he areas of kelp are shown 0 n tho hydrographic sheets. Gibbon anchorage on the west side is the only port visited by vessels. Here fish are dried during tho suml:Uer months to be used as food for the blue foxes which are raisedon the island. At Landlocked Bay o. <lay was spent by the topographic party in locating the wharves in the bay and also in determinmg the positions of houses to be used as signals by the hydrogro.phic party in mo.king additional soundings reqm.red at the head of the bay. Sounding lines Were run at the head of Lo.ncllocked Bay to supplement previous work. The hyd.rogro.phic party was employed on wire-drag work off Copper Mountain Point searching for o. rock reported inside tho IO-fathom curve. Tho doubtful area was thoroughly dragged but the rock was not found, the reported rock being probably tho 11f a.thom spot about 500 meters off the point. Field work closed for the season on September 27. Field work in Prince William Sound was resumed in May, 1912. 'I'he steamer Taku was repaired at Cordova and other preparations lna.de as rapidly as possible. . On May 22 o. determination was made of the position of the rock off Cape Hinchinbrook on which the Lighthouse steamer Armeria '\Vas wrecked. Three lines of sounding were run close together Parallel to tho shore and on the third lino o. sounding of 4t fathoms '\Vas obtained, with 6 fathoms or more on the remainder of the lin<'. .A. further examination was mo.do to develop the rock, on which tho least water found was 15 feet at near low water. Tho Armeria's draft when she struck was stated as 14 feet, and there was a swell tunning. Tho rock is a pinnacle, very steep on all sides, but more ~o on tho side toward tho lighthouse. From 21 fathoms tho leo.<l topped very quickly to 5 and 6 fathoms. Tho summit was estitna.tod to be 3 feet square. Tho rock was found to be about 350 lneters offshore and directly off the middle of three caves in tho cliffs. J A lino of soundings was run in the unsurveycd aren. between Point . 0 hnstono and Naked Island. The latter part of Juno was spent 1ll erecting signals for the triangulation, topogruphy, and hydrogtaphy, but no observing was done, owing to unfavorable weather.

58

REPOHT OF SUPERINTENDF.N'l', C:OA~'l' ANll 1:1wnETIC SFRVE\'.
OUTLYING TERRITORY.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

[P. A.

WELKER,

Director.]

4

The Director of Coast Surveys in the Philippine Islam.ls, whose office is at Manila, has immediate direction of the details of the field and office work in those islands, under general instructions from the Superintendent, and he makes plans for field work and issues instructions to field parties. The results of observn.tions made in the field are computed and discussed in the oflice at Manila, and drawings for new charts are there prepared and transmittPd to the office at Washington for publication. Sailing directions and notices to mariners for the Philippine Islands are prepared and published at Manila. Cooperation is maintained with the various bureaus of the insular ~overnment and with the military and naval authorities in the islands. The collection of data in regard to geogrnphic names and in relation to the geography of the Philippine Islands is among the important functions incidentally performed by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The progress of the work of the field parties is detailed in the abstracts which follow. During the entire fiscal year the five steamers available for surveying duty have been continuously engaged in the field, except during the mterval when repairs were necessary. In addition to the force attached to the steamers; one shore party was engaged in triangulation in Mindanao for nine months and another in making observations for the determination of the magnetic elements in various parts of the islands during a period of three months. Special reference is made to the extensive and important trigonometric surveys that have been carried on <luring the year. The triangulation over the large water area bounded by Luzon, Burias, Masbate, Panay, and Tablas Islands, involving lines of as much as 83 statute miles in length, has practically been completed, only n few additional observations for the purpose of increasing the strength of the schemes being necessary. The triangulation crossing the island of Mindanao, connecting Iligan and Allaml. Bays, has been entirely completed. Both of these were diflieult pieces of work. The triangulation connecting Mindoro and Panay and extending across the Cuyos Islands to the Calimanes and Palawan, including lines of a length as great as 91 miles, has been well advanced. This work will result in the connection of the surveys in Palawan with the surveys of the entire archipelago. In planning field work the effort has been made toward taking it up in the order of the most yressing needs of the mariner, with due regard to the commercial importance of the various unsurveyed regions and to the economy resulting from continuous connected surveys, thus avoicling the necessity for any extensive future adjust~ ment, extra labor, or expense. There are few localities of commercial importance now unsurveyed.

UEPORT OP SUPElUNTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

59

During the year there has been the usual exchange of results and harmonious cooperation with the naval and military authorities and the Yarious bureaus under the government of the Philifpine Islands. Tidal observations.-In addit10n to the regular tida observations made in the field in connection with hydrographic surveys, the selfregistering tide gauge at Mnnila has been in constant operation during the entire fiscal year. The two self-registering gauges of this service, which for a number of ycnrs had b<.'en operated under the direction of the Engineers of the United States Army, and the results for which had been furnishe.d to this office, were discontinued during the fiscal year. The one at Correg!dor was discontinued on July 28 and the one at Grande Island on February 1. Table of distances.-At the request of the Board of Rate Regulation, a table of distances between ports of the Philippine Islands has been prepared by this office for use in determining the proper charges for transportation of freight and passengers. Information regarding distances not tabulated has also been furnished to the various bureaus of the Government and to private parties when requested. By recent action of the Board of Rate Regulation, all questions regarding the distances between ports are submitted to this office for determination. Geographic names.-During the year the usual efforts have been made for gathering together the most reliable information in regard to the spelling of geographic names and to prepare a list of all places in the Philippme Islands. This list has been steadily growing, and it is estimated at present to consist of considerably more than 30,000 names. The Director of Coast Surveys is the secretary of the Philippine Committee on Geographic Names. Harbor lines commission.-On ·August 9, 1911, the Director of Coast Surveys was appointed a member of the Harbor Lines Commission of the Philippme Islands by the Secretary of Commerce and Police, and since that dntc has served in that capacity. Progress.-During the year 6,573 square miles have been covered by reconnoissance, 18,269 squure miles of triangulation hus been completed and 1~316 miles of coast line surveyed, 1,315 square miles of topographl nuve been surveyed und 49' topographic sheets completed. 'lhe hydrographic work has covered 9 535 square miles. Twenty-five tidul stations und 10 current stations have been occupied and 53 hydrogruphic sheets have been completed. The general coast line surveyed during the year fa about 6.5 per cent of the total length. Since the beginning of the work about 57 .8 per cent of the general shore line has been surveyed. ·
[II. C.
DENSOl'i,

Commanding Steamer Pathfinder.]

SUMMARY o~· nr:su1,Ts.-llaac lines: 5 bUlle lines measured. Triangulation: 22.59 square miles of area covered, l 17 signals and scaffolds erected, 98 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 190 geographic positions determined. Topography: 480 square miles of area covered, 400 miles of coast line surveyed, 101 miles of rivers and creeks surveyed, 84 miles of roads surveyed, 18 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography: 2,441 square miles of area sounded, 4,474 miles run while sounding, 42,664 soundings Illade, 6 tidal stations established, 19 hydrographic sheets finished.

On account of the necessity for obtaining the most favorable conditions during the northeast and southwest monsooDS, the work of the

60

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND (;EODE'l'IC SVRVEY.

Pathfin<ler during the first half of the fiscal year was carried on in two localities, the east coast of Mindanao and the southwestcoastof N egros. At the beginnin~ of the year the vessel was engaged in combined operations in the vicinity of Cauit Point, :Mindanao Island. The work along this coast was extended in a southerly direction to Banculin Point, Liango Bay, at which place on September 28 the seuson's work was closed. No dangers to navigation other than those generally known were discovered. After repairing at Manila, thePathfin<ler took up the surveys on the southwest coast of N egros Island in the vicinity of Binalbagan, but the field of work was soon changed to the reg10n south of Sojoton Point. A station was selected on Sojoton Point and connected with the Guimaras Strait triangulation. A short base wos measured on the beach immediately south of this point and a small tertiary scheme of triangulation was extended to the southward for locating points for the control of the topography and inshore hydrography, while a portion of the party was engaged in the development of the main scheme on mountain peaks difficult of access and ranging in height from 1,000 to 2,000 feet. A base line of approximately 1! miles in length was prepared for measurement in the vicinity of Shipalay. A number of anchorages affording perfect shelter during the northeast monsoon were developed between Sojoton Point and N abulao. A survey of Campomanes Bay, the only safe typhoon harbor on the southwest coast of Negros, was completed on a scale of 1/10,000. After January 1 the Pathfin<ler continued the triangulation, topography, and hydrography of the southwest coast of Negros Island and southeast coast of Mindanao. 'l'he vessel was undergoing repairs at Manila outfitting, etc. from April 19 to May 13. At the beginmng of the calendar year the party on the steamer Pathfin<ler was engaged in the survey of the west coast of N egros Island and adjacent waters from Sojoton Point to the southward. This work was continued until April 16, when a connection was made at Siaton Point with the previous work in that locality. Work of triangulation was difficult on account of the amount of clearing and high signals required. Base lines were measured in all available places. A planetable traverse preceded the triangulation afterthe topography had been completed as far as Nabulao Bay. Signals were erected along the shore sufficient to control the traverse, which were afterwards connected with the triangulation, and the CITOr of the traverse was adjusted. The hydrographic survey of this locality developed a number of anchorages easy of access but chiefly suitable for use only during the northeast monsoon. Campomanes Bay affords a good anchorage in all monsoons, and is deep and clear of obstructions. Tidal observations with an automatic gauge wepe made at Campomanes Bay, and with tide staffs at Linaon and Himamaylan. These three stations were connected by simultaneous readings. On May 20 work was begun on the southeast coast of Mindanao at Pujada Bay and that work was in progress at the close of the fiscal year. A base line, 4,787 meters in length, was measured, and the triangulation of the coast was completed from Mayo Bay southward to within 10 miles of Cape San Augustin. The topograpby of Pujada Bay and the coast line as far south as Luban Island was completed.

REPORT OJ? SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODE'I'.IC SURVEY.

61

The inshore hydrography of the region covered by the topography was also completed, and the offshore work was carried as far south as Cape San Augustin. There are no safe anchora~es along this coast, and much time was consumed in takin~ the working parties from the anchorage in Pujada Bay to and from tne working ground.
[F. G. ENOLI>, Commanding Steamer Research.]
SUMMARY OF JtESULTs.-Reconnoi&'lance: 510 square miles of area covered, 2 lines of intervisibility determined. Triangulation: 2,180 square miles of area c-overed, 56 signals and scaffolds erected, 25 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 98 geographic positions ~etermined. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth work: 1 azimuth station occupied. Topography: 244 square miles of area surveyed, 301 miles of coast line surveyed, 81 miles of rivers and creeks, 57 miles of roads, 8 topographic sheeta finished. Hydrography: 1,232 square miles of area sounded, 5,058 miles run while sounding, 76,900 soundings made, 3 tide stations established, 5 hydrogmphic sheeta finit1hed.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the party on the steamer Research was at work in the region between Biliran and Daram Islands and the west coast of Samar. The first work done was the completion of the hydrography from Carigara Bay northward between Durum and Biliran Islands to the Canuhuan Islands. In this area the contour of the bottom is very even between 25 and 40 fathoms. Sounding lines were run three to the mile with soundings on the lines a quarter of a mile apart. The inshore hydrography of the west coast of Daram Island had been done previously by another party. The topography of the south and east coasts of Biliran Island was completed. All of the peaks on the east side of this mountainous island were located and thei.r visible slopes contoured. An examination by plane table was mado of the position of trinngulation station "Rns ;, on Parassan Island and the shore line of the island corrected. An exumination was made for a reported shoal off Santa Fe, Bantayan Island, but no indication of such a shoal was found, and reasonab1e proof was obtained that it does not exist. In October an examination was made of tho southern entrance of Iloilo Harbor, where it was found that the sand spit on the northeastern side of the channel had extended since the previous survey, obstructing the buoyed channel. Field work was next taken up in the vicinity of Catbalogan, Samar. A reconnoissance was made and points selected for the triangulation, and by December 31 six stations had been occupied. Signals for hydrography were rrcctcd on the coast of Samar from the south end of Buri Island to .Ivloroporo Point, and their positions determined by plane table. The contours between these two points were sketchei:l. From Moroporo Point northward shore line was run, hydrogra~hic signals built and located, and contours sketched. The Gandara River was surveyed as far up as Tugnao. The Canahuan Islands have also been surveyed. In November and December inshore hydrography was done from Buri and Cagdullion Islands, on the coast of Samar, northward to the Tagdaranes Islands. The hydrography of the Canahuan Islands was also finished. The offshore hydrography on sheet 7A, joining the work done by party under charge of A.Ssistant Crowell on the south and west wa&

62

REPORT 01!' SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEO.DETIC SURVEY.

completed. From four to five lines to the mile were run over this area, th~ depths found ranging from 6 fathoms near the Samar Coast to 20 and 25 fathoms near the Canahuan Islands and Daram Island, respectively, with an even mud bottom. On January 1 the vessel was at work in the vicinity of Calbayog, engaged in the work of triangulation, topography, and hydrography of the area bounded by Samar, Biliran, and .Masbate Islands. The triangulation over the entire area bounded by these islands as far north as a line from 1folayoc Point, on Samar Island, to Tagapula Island and thence to Tetas de Cataingan on Masbate Island. Zenith distance observations for the determination of elevations were carried through the main scheme and similar observations were made upon all mountain peaks that were located in the triangulation. Azimuth observations were made on four nights at the astronomical station at Calabog. At the close of the calendar year the topographic work had been completed to Sundura, on the west coast of the island of Samar, and during the second half of the fiscal year it was carried as far north as Malaxoc Point. The topography was also completed for the islands of L1bucan, Limbancauayan, Camanday, Marrnl, Talajit, and Tagapula. The hydrographic survey was completed over the entire region covered by the topography and over the greater part of the area between Samar Island and a line from the most northerly point of Biliran Island to the most easterly point of Tugapula Island.
SURVEY Ol!' SUBTERRANEAN RIVER, PALAWAN ISLAND.

[E. R. FmsnY and Jmrn BAcrr.]

At the request of the Secretary of Commerce and Police of the Philippine Government, two of the officers of the Coast and Geodetic Survey were directed to report to him for the purpose of exploring and surveying a subterranean river on PnJawan Island. Unfavorable weather conditions and the difficulty in reaching the entrance to the river, which req_uircd passing through a heavy surf, caused delay until October 1, when a successful entrance was made and the exploration and survey was commenced. As only two days were availiilile for the execution of the work and the necessary instrumental outfit for underground work was far from complete, owing to the short time available for preparation, the survey was not as accurate and complete as it might have been if the party had been proporly equipped, with more time at its disposal. Courses were determined with an ordinary boat compass and distances were measured with a cod line marked for the purpose, while illumination was obtained by means of ordinary hand lanterns. The cove into which the river empties is near the center of St. Paul Bay and about 3 miles northeast of a small barrio situated in the extreme southern part of the bay. The entrance to this cove, on the southern side, is strikingly marked by a point sloJ?ing down to an elevation of about 25 meters and abruptly terminatmg in a massive, flat-topped tower of rock with vertical sides, closely resembling a fortified castle tower when seen from close inshore looking toward the northeast or southwest.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

63

The river empties into a lagoon about 120 meters long by 25 to 30 meters widehwith depths of 6 to 8 feet, through an irregular arched opening at t e base of a vertical cliff. Just inside the entrance the channel was found to be much obstructed by columns and longitudinal knife edges hanging from the roof and dividing the channel into numerous small openings just capable of passing the boats. Fifty meters upstream tliese obstructions disappear, leaving a single clear channel, but for the first 400 or 500 meters there are numerous small openings or pockets, which it was impossible to examine on account of limited time. At a distance of 200 meters daylight is seen through one of these crevices, and at 500 meters the channel opens into the first prominent chamber containing columns, stalactites, and one very prominent stalagmite. The next 1,000 meters is characterized by a long, straight tunnel with an easy curve near its center, the entire width of the tunnel being occupied by the river. Throughout this tunnel are numerous beautiful forms of stalactites. Continuing upstream for another 1,000 meters, the stream abruptly turns in a large chamber first to the right and then to the left, while on the right is u large, elevated cavern. Three hundred meters beyond this chamber the cavern opens into a series of chambers of increasing size, which continues for 1,000 meters, or to tho 4,000-meter point, beyond which progress in the boats was found to be impossible, although the cavern continues onward in the same general direction. The last point reached lies about 1,000 meters north-northwest from St. Paul Peak, 1,027 meters in height. A complete report of the methods used and results obtained was submitted by Mr. Frisby. On October 4 the entire party returned to Manila. On April 19, 1912, tho locality was again visited by the Director of Coast Surveys, accompanied by officials of the Philippine Govern:tnent. The entire length of tho river was again traversed up to thP limit of the survey, where an immense rock foll obstructs the passage of boats. Further exploration shows that the river continues beyond the obstruction for an unknown distance. This subterranean river has been named "The Mystic River of Palawan."
[WALLACE

1\1.

IlILL.)

. STATIONS occui>rnu.-Albay, Antipolo, Aparri BatangM, lloilo (old and new stnty1?ns), Lega.9pi, Manila, San 'Fernando, Siu1 faac!ro, Tabaco, Tarloc, Tuguegara, and 1gun.

On March 18 :Mr. Wallace M. Hill arrived in Manil11 from the United St11tes and immedi11tely began to make preparations for a magnetic survey of the Philippine Islands. Before beginning observations in the field, useful information regarding the location of magnetic stations established by the Jesuits Was obtained from the Weather Bureau at Manila. Permission was also obtained to occupy the st11tion at the Philippine Government's magnetic observatory at Antipolo. Actual fi.eld work was begun on March 25 and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year. During the period mentioned 14 stations were occupied . . At the request of the local authorities, a meridian line was established at Manila. This work was done in connection with the regular necessary observations for magnetic declination. Progress in this \vork was delayed owing to lack of facilities for transportation.

64

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

[R. F. LucE, Commanding Steamer Romblon.]
SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Triangulation: 1,820 square miles of urea covered, 30 signals erectedt39 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 23 geographic p;>sitions determined. opography: 283 square miles of area covered, 180 miles of coast line surveyed, 6 topop;raph1c sheets completed. Hydrogmphy: 1,679 squarn miles of area covered, 5,001 miles run while sounding, 84,191 soundings, 5 tidal stations established, 5 hydrographic sheet.~ completed.

During the period from July 1 to December 31, the steamer Romblon was engaged chiefly in work of topography and hydrography for which tho necessary points had been located previously. Some secondary triangulation was done on the west coast of Masbato Island and at l\Iount Enganosa on Burius Island, and a small amount of tertiary triangulation was done on the west coast of Masbato Island to furnish points for the topography. The topography completed to December 31 includes the shore line of the wost coast of Musbato Island and tho off-lying islands from a point 2 miles south of Bugui Lighthouse to Talisay Point at the southern end of Nin Bay, and a large part of the shore line of Port Barrera, Masbato Island. Contours were run in adjacent to the shore line and farther inland when it seemed desirable. The hydrography done <luring the same period covers the following aroas: A small piece of inshore cutter work near Gorrion, Burias Island; a small piece of inshore ship work just wost of Mount Enganosa, Burias Island; development work by the ship east of Banton Island; launch and cutter work to finish up the survey of Port Barrera, Masbate Island; shiJ? deep-sea work over the area inside of a lino drawn between Mab1ton, Burias Island, and a point 5 miles off the northeast corner of Sibuyan Island, thence to Bennet Island, thence to Bugui Lighthouse, thence to near Mount Surgurun, Burias Island i cutter work along the west coast of Musbato Island from Bugut Lighthouse to Talisay Point, at tho southern end of Nin Bay, w1th the exceptions noted later, this work extending from 1 to 2 miles offshore; and ship soundings with Tanner and Bassnott tu bes over tho area immediately west of this work, running out to the 100fathom curve, at a distance of about 17 miles offshore. Within the area of cutter work on the l\fosbato coast, mentioned above, the following areas have not been covered: A strip near Gato Island about 8 miles long and one-half a mile wide, and a strip extending from Mariveles Pomt to Tumulaytay Island from tho beach to a distance of about H· miles. Tidal observations with an automatic gauge wore continued ut San Pascual, Burias Is1and, and tide staff readings wore taken at various points. In Nin Bay and Looc Inlet an abnormal variation of the magnetic needle was noted. Ai tor January 1 the party continued tho work of triangulation, topography, and hydrography in tho area bounded by Burias, Masbate, Tablas, Sibuyan, and Romblon Islands. The Romblon was undergoing repairs at Manila from February 1 to Murch 22. By January 1 most of tho necessary triangulation had been coDlpleted, and during the latter part of the year the only triangulation executed was of a tertiary character and mtended for the location of points for the hydrography and topography. . The shore-line topography was completed in the following localities: The west coast of .Mas bate Island from Talisay Point, at the

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEl.

65

southwest end of Nin Buy, to Pulanduta Point, at the southwest end of Mas bate Island; the entire coast of Sibuyan Island with the exception of about 3 miles, which had been l)reviously executed by another party; the coast of Cresta de Gallo Is nnd; and the harbor of Romblon, Romblon Island. Considerable inshore topography was also surveyed in the locnlities mentioned. The hydrographic work included inshore work on the west coast of Masbate Island from Tumalaytay Island to Mnrivoles Point, from Talisay Point to Pulandutu Point und a small strip neur Gato Island, all of this work extending about 2 miles offshore; and about Sibuynn, extending about l~ miles offshore and ull around tho island with tho exception of about 4 miles on tho south coust previously executed and-about 5 miles on the north coast, which remains unfinished; development of Romblon Harbor; offshore shonls between Masbatc and Sibuyan Islands; hydrogruphy inshore and offshore over the greater part of the area between ~Iasbate und Sibuyun Islands and to the northward of Sibuynn Island, and offshore work over nn area of about 150 square miles north of Capiz, Pmrny Islnnd. · Magnetic declinat.ion was determined at one station at sen. An automatic tide gauge was kept in operation at Romblon, Romblon Island, and tide stuff readings were made at various points during the progress of the survey.
[J. ll. M1L1.En, Commanding 8t('amer Fathomcr; E. ~luELLEH, Commanding Steamer
Fathomcr.] SuMlIARY OF RESUI.Ts-Rcconnoissance: 5,0B5 square miles of area covered 22 lines of intervisibilit.y determined, !) points selected for scheme. Bll8c lines: 1 base line measured. Triangulation: 8, 753 square miles of aren. covered, 24 signals and scaffolds erected, 34 stat.ions occupied for horizontal m<>asuroH, 121 geographic Positions determined. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth work: 1 azimuth station occupied. Ma~etic work: 1 land station occupied for magnetic declination, 3 sea stations occupied for magn1~tic declination. Topography: !J2 square miles of area covered, 161 miles of genernl coast surveyed, 97 mill's of rivers and creeks, 3 miles of roads 6 t-0pographic sheets finished. Ilydrography: 3, 1()5 square miles of area Bounded, 7, 670 miles run while sounding, 51, 125 smmdings, 5 tidal stations established, 8 current stations occupied, 13 hydrographic sheets finished.

The party attached to the steamer Fathomer was in the field continuously from July 21 to November 24. During this time the triangulationjn progress at the close of the previous fiscul year, between the islanas of Tablas, Panay, Masbuto, and Sibuyan, was completed, and also the topography and hydrography connecting the latter on a line from Romblon Island to the southern point of Masbate Island with the work that was being carried on by the steamer Romblon. On October 24 the work was closed in that vicinityi:and the triangulation from Panay and Mindoro to the Calimanes slands and Puluwan, including the survey of the Cuyos Islands, was co~menced. Reconnoisance, topography, and hydrogrnphy wns done m the Cuyo Group during November, and the vessel arrived in .:\1nnila on November 25, for the annual repairing and outfitting. The occupation of stations in the main scheme of triungulation was completed, as was also tho base not connecting the Ihnjay base with the main scheme of triangulation. This base lino li<'s on the sandy beach bctwPcn Il)lljay und Navus 1 northwestern Punay, at nbout high679010-13---.5

66

REPORT OP SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

water line, and is 7,100 meters long. The azimuth of the base wus measured and time determined. Topographicul work was done on the north coust of Panny Island from Ibajay to the Aclan Hiver, a distance of 14 miles, which completes the topography of thn t island; on the cast coast of Tablas Island, from Concepcion to Pineda Point, a distance of 8 miles, completing that island; on Rom bl on and Sibuyan Islands portions of the shore line were surveyed. Inshore hydrography wns completed nlong the consts for which the topogmphv had been surveyed, thus finishmg the remainder of the hydrography about the north coast of Panny, Tablas Island, and the west of Romblon Island. Offshore hydrography was done between Tablas, Panny, l\Insbate, and Sibuyan Islands, and the whole of it was completed except about 1:17 square miles near ~fosbate. A reconnoissunce wus made for triangulation from Mindoro and Panay to the Culimanes und Palawun, including the Cuyo Islands; some stations occupied and points determined for the topography and hydrography. About 600 miles of ship sounding wus done, follov.'ing many of the courses used in navi~ating the Cuyo Group, and several uncharted shoals were found. ·1'he ship wus swung once for magnetic observations at Bararin Island, near Cuyo, nnd once in Maniltt Bay. Tides were observed with an automatic tide gnuge on Tablas tmd Bisucny Islands. From January 1 until the close of the year th.e vessel was engnged in triangulation, topogrnphy, and hydrogruphy, west coast of Panay, Cuyos, and Palawan Islands. On January 25 fieldwork was resumed in the region about the Cuyo Islands, which included the triangulation from Panay and Mindoro to the Calimanes Islands and Palawan. A special effort was made to connect this island with that part of the triangulation of the Philippine Archipelago which had been already completed. At the close of the fiscnl year this had been accomplished with a degree of accuracy that will permit the commencement of work in this region. Incidentally, considerable topogruphic and hydrographic work was done in detached localities, chiefly off the west coast of Panay and in the vicinity of the Cuyos Islands. On the west coast of Panay 74 miles of shore line were resurveyed, which was necessary for locating signals for the hydrog:raphy. A topographic surycy was also completed of two of the larger and three of the smaller islands of the Cuyo Group. The hyclrography of the west const of Panay was completed to a junction with the work done in the years 1907 and 1908. Three uncharted shoals were discovered, and five re.Ported shoals were found not to exist. This work was carried to a distance of 15 to 25 miles from the shore. At npproximately this distance from the shore there exists a na1Tow submarine vnlley, 500 to 800 fathoms in depth, beyond which to the westwnrd there is a great bank with less than 100 fathoms, which extend the entire distance to Palawan Island. Upon this bunk severul lines were run to a distance of 98 miles to the westward, within sight of Pnlawan. About the Cuyo Group a section from 5 to 7 miles and 46 miles long was surveyed through the center of the group and other lines were run outside of this. Cuyo Harbor, with its approaches, was surveyed. More than 50 shoals were discovered in thi8 region. ·

REPORT 01" SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUHVEY.

67

Tides were observed with an automatic gauge near Cuyo Island. A staff gauge was used for six weeks on western Panay. Currents were observed at eight stations distributed over un uren, of 4,000 square miles. A permanent eddy, with 11 velocity of from 1 to 2t knots, wa.s discovered directly west of Panay. During the northeast monsoon thls eddy follows north along Pnn11y and southwest throug~ the Cuyos. It is of sufficient strength to be of importance t.o navigators along the Panny coast. One land station und three seu stations were occupied for observations of the magnetic declination.
[EmmIIAltD'l' :!lh:EJ.I,frn.]
8UMMAHY <>F 1tEsu1:rs.-Beconnoi.&'lance: l,OOOsquaro mileHofnreacovcred. Base linefl: 1 bmiO line meaHnred. Triangulation: 1,000 squaro milcfl of area covered, 28 signals am! scaffolds erected, 30 st.at.ions occupied for horizontal measnres, 28 8tat.ions occupied for vertical measures, ·15 geographic posit.ionA det-0nnined.

Early in the fiscal yc11r arrangements were made to take up the .tri11ngul11tion 11cross Mindanao Island, connecting Iligan and Illnna Bays. As the work was in a region inhabited by the Moro tribes, not altogether peaceful, it was necessary that it should be carried on under tho protection of troops control1ed by officers of the United States Army. The· l\Jilitary Information Division of the Army desiring a topogmpl:ti~al survey of this ~·egion, the oppt?rtunity was favorable for combuung forces, rendermg mutual assIStance, and carrying on the work at tho same tin1e. The chief object of this triunf.,>Ulation is to secure an nccuruto connected system of triangulation for the whole length of tho Philippine Islands, based upon one standard datum, and to avoid the uncertainty of coordination of numerous independent nnd detnched surveys. The party was organized in the e11rly part of August, and leaving Parang on August 22, arrived on the 24th at Camp Keithly, where Work was immediately begun. A reconnoissanco hi tho high mountains west of Lake L11nao, proving tho impracticability of the largo sche.me which had been contemplated, a smaller scheme embracing tho region about Lake Lanao Was planned. To carry out tho object desired, stations had to be cleared from heavy timber, involving much labor, which was difficult to obtain, and as tmvel in the interior was necessarily on foot, progress was slow and laborious. For connections about Iligan Bay Water transportation was necessary, which was obtained, after some delay, from tho military authorities. Considering tho difficllities of tho work, excellent progress 'vns made and by tho close of the calend11r yenr all stations had been selected and cleared of timber, all but a few of tho necessary signals had been erected, and the majority of the stations lrnd been occupied for observutions. A base line was measured and the stations of the base !let erected and occupied so us to furnish po in ts for an Army topographlcal party. Acknowledgment is made of the v11hmble assistance received from the officers of the United Stn,tes Army, without which this important Work could not h11ve been done. Triangulation between Ilignn and lllmrn Bays, ~li.ndunao Island, Was continued until March 26, whcm work was closed.

68

REPORT 01" SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
WmT!-IEY,

[PAt;L C.

Comman<ling Steamer Marinduque; LEO 0. manding Steamer Nar-induque.]

CoL!IEHT,

Com

SuMMAl!Y oF 1rns1.'LTs.-Ilase lines: 1 base line measured. Triangulation: 2,257 square miles of urea covered, 53 signals an<l scaffolds ereeted, 43 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 59 geographic positions determined. Latitude, longitu<lo, an<l azimuth work: 2 azimuth stations occupied. i\lagnetic work: I land station occupied for magnetic declination, dip, and intensity, 1 Hea Rtation occupied for magnetic declination, l complete swing of ship. 'l'opogral(hy: 216 square miles of area surveyed, 274 miles of coast line Hurveyed, 36 miles of rivers and creeks, 14 1niles of roads, JO tor.ographic sheets finiHhed. llydroi,>Taphy: 1,018 square miles of area HOUJHlecl, 3,094 miles run while sounding, 59,843 soundings, () t.i<lal stations esU1hlished, 2 eurrent stations occupied, 10 hydrographic sheets finished.

Combined surveying operations by the rarty 011 the steamer Marinduque in Basilan Straits were continuec from ,July 1 to August 18. Work was then suspended for the purpose of making necessary repairs to the vessel, and during the interval the field records were completed. Operations in Busi.Ian Straits were resumed on November 17 and were in progress on December 31. The work consisted almost entirely of hydrography in the southern half of Basilnn Straits, where there a.re shoal spots and soundings requiring verification. In this region the hydrogmphy wns made difficult by the strong current cncotmtered. Luzon reef was. located un<l one-fourth fathom less sounding discovered than previously shown. A reported shonl west of Bongo Island with a depth of 2'2.7 foot over it wns located and developed and also a 24-foot shoal about a mile distant. A few soundings were made in the area north of lligun Bay not surveyed during the previous year. In connection with the survey of Basilan Strnits five triangulation stations were occupied and topographicnl work wns done on the north and northwest coasts of Busilan Island from San Haman to Zamboanga. On .Junuary 9 work wns begun in Rugny Gulf. From a base measured by Assistant Luce the triangulation was carried up Rngny Gulf with subsidiary points for the control of the topogrnphy and hydrography. The pJnns for this work culled for tt co1mect10n across Luzon to the San Miguel Bay ·triangulation. The coast line of the gulf is genernlly heavily wooded and the establishment of mnin scheme stations made necessary a ]urge amount of clearing, un<l towers from 40 to 60 feet high had to be built. To establish station "Bernncci" a six days' trip to the top of the mountain had to be mu<le, and at the station near Port Pusgo hardwood trees of 25 feet in circumference were cut down to clenr the lines. The inshore hydrogrnphy was curried on from camps as rapi<lly us possible. An automatic tide gauge wns erected at Port Pusgo on a wharf built by the party. The hydrogruplw of the gulf was being carried on by the ship in depths ranging frorn 40 to 300 fathoms. During the month of :May the observations in the main scheme of triangulation were taken up and completed. This scheme extends from the head of the gulf, where a base wns measured, to a line connecting Bondoc Head on Luzon Island nnd Mount Engunosa on Buri11s Island. This line joins the work with that of l!ll l. Connection was ulso made with the triangulation of San Miguel Bay on the cast coast of Luzon. Observntions for azimuth were obtained at the Coast and Geodetic Survey longitude stntion at Pusucao und at

REPORT OF SUPEHINTENDEN"T, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

69

the naval latitude and longitude stations at Guinayangan, und these stations were connected with the main scheme of triangulation. The topography was curried from Caurusan Point to the head of the gulf on the cast side and to Arena Point on the Wf'st side, with the exception of an 18-mile strip between Linn nnd Pusgo Points. At Arena Point it joined with the work of 1!lO!l. The hydrogrnphic SUIT<'Y wns compl<'ted north und east of ti line from Pusgo Point to Anirna Sola lsJund, with the exception of the work between Point Pusgo trnd Pnlnd Bunk. A small area in the vicinity of Arena Jsland wus nlso compfoted. An automatic tide gauge was maintamed ut Port Pusgo from January until the close of the year. Tide staff readings were made at three stations for the reduction of soundings. Cunent observntions were mndc nt one station for n short period.
MA:-1 II.A OFFICE.

At the oflicc in Manila the records received from the field parties Were exnminc<l, reduced, and checked wherever nccc3sary, duplicates propnrnd, results of triangulation ndj usted, and elevations computed. The usuul studies were nm<le for each proposed piece of field Work; notes, specifications, uncl instructions for field P.arties prepared, and general supervision exercised over the detmls of the field operations. Finished trucings W<'ro made for churt publication, hydrographie sheets plotted, and topographic sheets inked nnd completed when necessn ry. Sailing directions nnd notices to mariners for the Philippine Islands Were prepared and a large amount of ori~innl hydrographic information was received und fil!:d. Lights nnc1 buoys on the charts wen' colored nnd hund correct 10ns to the charts nuule wlwn necessary. The Smvcy lrns n, rPprcsentative on the Lighthouse Bonrd of the Philippine Government. The Geographic Division continued t.he compilation of n. general rnap of the Philippines.
POltTO HICO.

[Jons A. PmLJ.rPs, Jr., OscAH ll. GAAIWES, and CnAHLES. F. 'VoonYA!lD.]

Tho magnetic observatory at Viequcs, Porto Rico, was under the charge of :Mr. John A. Phillips, jr., from July 1 to November 5, the date when he wns drowned while bathing in Vi<'ques Sound. Owing to this unfortunate nnd regn,ttuble circumstnncc, .the observatory remained closed until November 18, when Mr. Oscar H. Guardcn anived at Vicques und took charge of the observatory. Mr. Gaarden remained in charge until relieved curly in .January by Mr. Charles F. 'Voodyard, who hus remained in charge of the observatory for the rest of the fh1cal year. Special rnpid-rute registration wns carried out on specified term days of each month in accordance with the internntionnl progmm. The n1agnetogrnph nn<l seismogrnph Wl'l'C in successful operation throughout the ycnr with the exception noted, und the required scale-value

70

REPORT OF SUPERIN"TENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

determinations, absolute observations, time, seismological and meteorological observations were made. About 25 earthquakes were recorded during the year. Some minor repairs to the buildings were made.
(G. IIARTNELL.) STATIONS occuPIED.-Cuba: IIabana. Florida: Key \Vest, Jupiter, and Miami. Porto Rico: Alganabo Point, Aibonito, Caguaa, Obispo Cayo, Ponce, and South Dase, San Juan.

Magnetic observations were made by Mr. Hartnell at the stations named above in returning to Washington after the transfer of the charge of the magnetic observatory at Vieques to another observer. Ai bonito, one of the two Htations at Habana, and Key '\-Vest were new stations, the others having been occupied previously.
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

[OscAR II. GAAHDEN and J. W. GREEN.]

The Honolulu magnetic observatory was under the chaq::;c of Mr. Oscar II. Gaarden until July 16 and after that date under the charge of Mr. J. W. Green. The Eschenlrngen magnetogmph and the Milne seismograph were in satisfactory operation throughout the year and tho required absolute obscrvat10ns, scale value determinations, and cfaily meteorological observations were made. The reports of the meteorological observations were sent to the local office of the Weather Bureau at Honolulu, and exchanges of weather reports were made with the Ewa Plantation Co. as heretofort>. About l 70 earthquakes were reported, nearly the same as for the previous year. Special rapid-rate registration was carried out on specified term days in cooperation with the English and Australasian antarctic expeditions. The necessary repairs to the observatory buildings were made. ·
[J.C. GAUGEH.)
Su~rMAnY OP RESULTs.-Reconnois.~ancc: 125 square miles of area covered, 39 Jines of intPrvisibility determined, as p<'r sketch submitted, Hi points selected for scheme. Triangulation: 25 square miles of area covered, 13 i;i~nal poles erected, 2 observing signals and scaffold:; built, 4 station:; occupil'd for horizontal measures, 12 geographic po~itions determined. Topography: 27 square mil<·s of area surveyed, 133 miles of general coast surveyed, 67 miles of roads surveyed, 7 topographical sheets finished.

On August 30, 1\H l, instructions were issued for a revision of the triangulation and shore-line topogrnphy of the Ifowaiiun Islands. The officer assigned to this duty arrived in Honolulu on October 18, and after collecting the necessary data from previous surveys and making other necessary arrnngements, work in the field was begun on November 3 in the vicmity of Wailuku, island of .Maui. By the close of the fiscal yeur the shore line on Maui Island had been surveyed from the vicinity of the Hulu Islands on the north coast westward around the island tu I-Iuelo Landing, omitting two sections in the vicinity of Maalaea Bay and Makena which had been previously surveyed. The work was executed upon a scale of 1/20,000 on nine topographical sheets. The unsurveyed shore line now remaining on the island is that portion of the north coast lying between Kahului nnd Huelo Landing.

nEPOtrr OF SUPERINTENbE~T, COA~T ANt) <;EOVETJC SURVEY.

71

(E. V A~CE

MILLR11.]

The officer above named, who had been engaged since April 15 in collecting material for the correction of sailing directions for the Hawaiian Islands, completed that duty on July 11, and sniled for San Francisco on the 12th. The time from July 1 to July 11 \Vas occupied chiefly in interviewing masters of the various inter-island vessels and other local authorities with 11 view to obtaining data useful for the Coast Pilot. Acknowledgment is made of courtesies shown by the Inter-Island Steam Navigation Co. (Ltd.), and by masters of its nssels, from whom much valuable information was received.
CAXAL ZO:-IE.
[~.IL liECK.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Tri:mgulalion: '10 square miles of area covered, 2 signals erected, 3 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 2 stations occupied for vertical measures, 6 geographic positions determined, 10 elevalions determined trif\'onometrically. Topography: 22.9 square miles of area surveyed, 2 topographic sheets finished. Hydrogtaphy: 200 square miles of area dragged, 395 miles run while dragging, 12,345 angles measured, 64 soundings made, 1 tidal station established, I hydrographic sheet finished.

The examination with tho wire drag of tho approaches to tho Canal Zone in Panama Roads was begun on .January 2 and closed on May 7. The party arrived in Panama on December 14 and was occupied until January 2 in making tho necessary arrangoment..;; for hiro of launches, quarters, transportation, and supplies, and awaiting tho arrival of tho instruments and equipment, all involving considorublc dolay. As soon as possible topographical work was begun on tho mainland and outlying islands within tho limits of the proposed charts. Two topographic sheets were completed between January 1 and ~larch 2. A large portion of tho uroa had already been carefully surveyed by the engmoors of tho Canal Commission, so t hut tho work required was chiofly to bring this up to dutc and locate objects useful for purposes of navigation. A number of hydrographic signals wore located for the use of tho party on tho steumcr Patterson. Sufficient triangulation work was dono for the control of the work to tho eastward of Panuma and to locuto tho objects useful to navigators in thut region. All of the aroa outside tho 45-foot curve was dragged to an effective depth at moan low wutcr of 45 feet or more. This curvo was found to be farthor to the nortlnv11rd than indicated on existing charts. No uncharted .;;hoals wore found to tho southward and eastward of a lino from a point 3 miles cast of San Joso Rock, to Farralon, to tho sound end of Chamc 1"l11n<l, to Chame Point. In the vieinity of San Jose Rock a rocky urea was developed, the most dangerous fcaturo being a 12-foot rock near San .Joso Rock on which tho steam;;hip 1'ric1ilo reported striking in Juno, 1911. Tho pinnacle rock betwoen Tortola and Taboga islands, marked by a horizontal striped buoy, wus loctited and loss water found than shown on the charts. Between this rock und Taboga Island a 17-foot and a 29-foot pinnaclo rock were locut.cd.

72

HEPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The total area covered was 200 square miles, at a cost of about $65 per square mile, tho lowe.3t cost thus for obtained in this class of work. The Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Patterson cooperated with tho wire-drag party by furnishing positions of stations and dc:Q!;hs for regulating the drug over a portion of the area covered. The Patterson also furnished transportation for the members of tho party engaged in topographical work. The drag party undertooK tho development of all shoals discovered within tho dragged area. Acknowledgement is made of valuable assi.stanco rendered by tho officers of the Isthmian Canul Commission in furnishing supplies, quarters, and transportation.
[H. \\'. HuonEs, Commanding Steamer f'atterson.] SUMMARY OF nESUL'ri;.-Triangulation: 410 square miles of area covered, 12 signals erected, 14 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 11 stations occupied for vertical measures, 53 geog;raphical positions detennined, 33 elevations determined trigonornetrically. .Mag-no tic work: (i stations occupied for observations of the three magnetic elements, 29 stations occupied at Hoa. Topography: 7 .3 i;;quare miles of area surveyed, 83. 7 miles of general coast lino surveyed, 3 topogra-phical sheets ·finished. Hydrography: 450 square miles of area sounded, 1,962 miles run while sounding, 12 1418 angles measured, W,524 soundings ma.de, 3 tidal stations occupied, 2 current stations occupied, 8 hydrographic shoots finished.

The survey of the Pacific cntranco to tho Panama Canal by tho party on the stoamor Patterson was begun on January 15 and completed on April 12. Tho Patterson left San Francisco on December 22 and arrived at Panama on January 15, after a stop of three days at Acapulco, ~Iexico, for coaling ship tmd for magnetic work. Before leaving San Francisco shore observations with magnetometer and dip circle were mudc at the Goat Island station, and the ship was swun~ for the determinMion of the deviation, dip, and total intensity m San Francisco Buy. En route, besides occupying the magnetic station of 1907 at Acapulco, the ship was swung at 17 stations at sea for the determination of declination, dip, and total intensity. During tho season on tho working ground tho ship was swung twice for determination of tho magnetic elements; once southeast of San Jose Rock: and once in the area west of Taboga Island. Four shore stations wore occupied in Panama Bay for complete observations. On the return passage eight sea stations were occupied. The Carnegie Institution station at Sun Diego and the Goat Island station at San Francisco were occupied for complete observations on tho return trip, and the ship was swung again in San Francisco Bay. Triangulatwn.-Primnry st11tions "Ancon" and "Cobra" and secondary stations "Sun Jose" and "Venado" of tho Canal Commission's triangulation wero recovered. Stations "Ancon," "San Jose," and "V cnad',)" were reoccupied, and through them tho triangulation was extended to the southward and westward to cover tho whole field of work. All stations were permanently marked and full descriptions made. Topography.-The topography was completed on two projections furnishe<l by the office on a scale of 1/20,000, embracing respectively the Tabogu nnd the Otoquc Groups of islands, nnd in nd<lition a proJection was made in tho field covering the west shore line of Panama Bay from the limits of the second projection furnished to Assistant

REPORT OF .SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

73

N. I-I. Heck, to Chamo Bay, and tho plune-table survey of tho shore lino and outlyincr islands was completed. · Four men and transportation were furnished by the Patterson to aid Mr. N. H. Hock's party in tho survey of the main shore and outlyir1g islands from Panama City westwnrd to the limits of his sheet. Hydrography.--The hydrogrnphic projection, scnlo 1/40,000, furnished by the office, was supplemented by two additional projections on a scale of 1/40,000, covering the whole offshore territory to be devPlopcd together with the necessary shore line. In addition, five projections, scale 1/20,000, and one projection on 1/10,000 settle were made for tho inshore hy<lrog:rnphy und for the detaih'd work around the out.lying islun<ls. Two of these sheets will be incluch·d in ono of tho 1/40,000 sheets, so that all of tho work will bo included on six finished sheets. 'l'he sheet on tho scnlc of 1/10,000 covers tho channel leading into the Canal proper, together with the i1mncdiate approach to it. Ti<le statwns.-An automatic tide gauge was established on l'foos Island nnd the tides observed from February 1 to April 12. Tho records of the stuff gauge mai11tni1wd nt Tnboga Island by l\fr. K. II. Heck wore used in reducing the grentcr part of the soundings. A tide station was ulso established on 'l'abor Island in Chamo Buy und connected with N aos Island by simultaneous observations. No da1wcrs to navigation in the usual trucks of trnffic were developed by tl1e hy<lrogrnphy. Several shoal arons were discovered and ~heir posi.tions given to tho wire-drug purty for more thorough mvestignt10n. Two lines of soundings were run between Capo l\fala and the Otoque Islands an<l tho depths wlwro comparison cnn be made agree closely with those given on Hydrogruphic Offico chnrt ~o. 1019.
SPECIAL DUTY.
VIRGINIA.

[W. B. FAnu·rn1,n.]

Between April 22 and May 6 n doterminnt.ion wus made of the position of throe points in lower Chosnponke Bay for tho United States Engineers, and of four tripod beacons on Willoughby Bank. In order to determine t.hoso seven points it was necessary to occupy five stations, two of tho Engineers' J)oints and throe lighthouses. The objects mentioned wore connecto with tho triangulation of tho Coast and Geodetic Survey. ·
MAINE: OBSTRUCTIOX IN TWO-IlUSII CIIA1'NEL O!\" WllICII THE U. S. S. ARKANSAS STRUCK.

[R. L. FARIS.]

In Juno a consultation was had with tho officers of tho New York Shipbuilding Co. at Camden, N. J., for tho purpose of securin~ information as to tho time and position of tho U.S. S. Arkansas wnen she struck a rock in 'l'wo-Bush Channel, coust of 1\foine. From tho courses and distances givon in tho ship's log book, an inspection of tho charts used, and other information obtained from tho oflicers of tho company, it appears that tho ship struck on tho

74

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUUVEY.

southerly side of the 3i-fathom spot in Two-Bush Channel shown on the Coast and Geodetic Survey charts, which is about six-tenths of a mile to the southward and westward of Two-Bush Island Lighthouse. In this conclusion the naval officer who was on the bridge of the Arkansas at the time, although not in command, concurs.
MAINE: ROCKLAND NAVAL SPEED-TRIAL COURSE.

[O. B. J·'RENCH.]

The permanent 'beacons for the naval speed-trial course at Rockland, Me., plans for which had been made by an officer of the Survey, were satisfactorily completed by the contractor and accepted on July 28. The beacons were planned to meet the following conditions: 1. That they should have a sky background as seen from a ship on the course. 2. That the transiting objects should be tall, slender poles or tubes, large enough to be visible to the eye from the ship on the course in good weathC'r. 3. That the pole on the front bC'acon should appear of the same size as the pole on the rear beacon as seen from the ship. 4. That some part of the pole on the front beacon must transit over some part of the pole on the rear beacon for an observer on tho course at a height anywhere between high tide and 40 feet above high tide. 5. That there should be a larger visibility surface at the top of each rear beacon to aid in its identification, and make it more distinct in hazy weather. 6. 'fhat there should be visibility surfaces on the faces of the towers to make them more easily seen in hazy weather. 7. That the structures should be strong enough to withstand a wind pressure of 40 pounds to the square foot, using a factor of safety of 5. The rear beacons are wrought-iron tubes of 12-:inch inside diameter and 50 feet in length anchored to a concrete foundation and held erect by a steel tower 2.5 foot in height. An elliptical target 8 feet by 6 feet, composed of slats 6 inches in width, is fastened to the top of each rear tube. The Monroe Island (front) beacon is a tube 6 inches in diameter projecting 27 feet above the top of a tower 85 feet in height. Sheep Island beacon is an 8-inch tube projecting 30 feet ahove the top of a tower 50 feet in height. The legs of all the beacons are embedded in concrete, which extends 5 feet into the gi:ound or else rests on solid rock. When completed the beacons were entirely covered with black paint. The exact positions for the beacons were located by triangulation, which connects a measured base on Sheep Island with two trigonometric points near the entrance to Rockland Harbor. The two ranges are. ~arallel and exactly L.!Htl!!~cal mile.J!llart. The positions of the rC'ar beacons are fiXed on the ground by the large concrete piers upon which the 12-inch tubes are mounted. The center of each front beacon is fixed in the ground by a 20-peµny copper nail (small end up) embedded in concrete.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GlWDETIC SURVEY.

75

Before the completion of the beacons observations were made to determine the poSitions of the buoys indicating the course on which ships should run. The observations were made at about the middle stage of flood tide, and the positions of the buoys were tound to be as follows: North buoy, north of north range, 43 meters; north buoy, cast of Monroe Island beacon, 2,644 meters· south buoy, north of south range, 14 meters; south buoy, east of Sheep Island beacon, 3,463 meters. Monroe Island beacon is cast of Sheep Island beacon 789 meters. Consequently, a line through the south buoy perp~n dicular to the ranges will J?RSS 30 meters east of the north buoy. The above distances are all 01ther perpendicular to or parallel with the ranges. The angle at south buoy when it is placed exactly on the south range and distant 3,463 meters from Sheep Island beacon, between this range and Monroe Island beacon, is 34° 43.4'. The angle at the north buoy, when it is on the north range and in tho same perpendicular to the ranges as south buoy, between Sheep Island beacon and the north runge, is 28° 09.1'. The south buoy is probably as near the course as it is practicable to place it, hence by merely moving the north buoy over to the ran~e and working backward or forward until the angle given above, VIZ, 28° 09.1' is obtained, both buoys will then be in correct position to indicate the true course for the running of ships.
DISTRICT 01" COLUMBIA.

n. FnENcH.] In the latter part of April, at the request of the Superintendent of Public Buildings and Grounds, District of Columbia, a line of levels was run between the various bench marks established in the vicinity of the Washington Monument. There are four iron plates attached to the monument and tour hras~ bolts in the roadway near the four corners of the monument, which are used in determining the condition of the monument. The elevations of these bench marks were determined with reference to a stone obelisk located some 34 meters south of the monument, a complete circuit being run around the monument in both directions. There was no line of sight more than 30 meters in length and the mean of the two circuits closed exactly. Three sets of backward and forward measures were then run between the obelisk and the bench marks. The results of the leveling indicate that no perceptible change has taken place in the elevation of the monument since the last examination.
[O.
NEW YORK: FORT SLOCUM, DAVIDS ISLAND.

[E. If.

PAGENHART.)

SUMMARY OF REBULTs.-Triangulation: 2 stations occupied for observations of horizontal angles, 155 positions determined. Topography: 1 square mile of area surveyed, 2! miles of shore line run. Hydrography: 5~ miles of sounding lines run, 633 sounoings made.

At the request of Capt. J. L. McArthur, Quartermaster, U. S. A.z a resurvey was made in the early part of A;ril of the shore line and adjacent hydrography of Davids Island, N. Y., for the purpose of

76

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

locating reported rocks and changes in natural and artificial features which have occurred since the last surveys were made, and of determining accurately the positions of aids to navi~ation in that vicinity. To furnish points for the topography stat10ns, "Blanzes Rock" and "Execution Rock Lip;ht House" were occupied and angles measured to "Tower" and 'Pole" on Davids Island, and also to the Episcopai Church spire at New Rochelle. . The ,.general location of the rocks was indicated by Capt. Sypher, ot the (.luartermaster's Department steamer Barry, so that the hydrographic examination was confined to a comparatively small area. The rocks arc small, only a few square feet in area, and rise from 1 to 3 feet above the mud bottom. The least water found was 8.1 feet on the northwest end of the rocky ridge and 8.2 feet on the southeast end, with deeper water between them. The plane of reference is based on 17 low waters observed in 1894-95. A vessel drawing 6 feet could strike on these rocks at very low tide. All of the buoys between Blanzes Rock and Echo Bay were determined in position.
CURRENT OBSERVATIONS ON LIGHT VESSELS, SOUTH ATLANTIC COAST.

[W. E.

PARKEH.]

The Bureau of Lighthouses having agreed to cooperate with the Survey by permitting a series of current observations to be made by th~ masters of light vessels stationed along the South Atlantic coast, an officer of the Survey was directed in June to install the necessary apparatus and to instruct the observers in its use. Through the courtesy ot the Bureau of Lighthouses it was arranged tlmt transportation of the oflicer of the Survey and the cun·cnt apparatus on the lighthouse tender Sunflower should be made during her regular visits to the light vessels. The instruments for current observations were installed on light vessel No. 4.6, Tnil of the Horseshoe, Va.; light vessel No. 49, ·capo Charles, Va.; light vessel No. 72, Diamond Shoals, N. C.; light vessel No. 80, Cape Lookout Shoals, N. C.; light vessel No. 84, Brunswick, Ga.; light vessel No. 1, Martins Industry, S. C.; and light vessel No. 34, Charleston, S. C. A complete set of the necessary apparatus with full instructions was left with the master of the lighthouse tender Cypress, to be delivered on board the light vessel on Frying Pan Shoals, off the coast of North Carolina, on the next regular trip of the Cypress. The masters of the several light ve3sels were fully instructed in the use of the instruments and the methods of makmg the necessary observations, which are to be made daily for a period of three months. The infdrmation thus obtained, after discussion, will be published for the benefit of mariners in the Coast Pilots and tide tables and on the charts.
EXAMINATION OF INLAND WATERWAYS.

[W. E.

PARKER.]

To meet a growing demand for sailing directions for navigating the inland waterways between the Capes of the Chesapeak~ and Key West, Fla., ·an officer was detailed in February to make a careful

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

77

examination of the entire route and to gather the necessary information. These waterways had previously been shown on tho charts and a small leaflet descriptive of them had been published, but as many of the channels are under improvement by the United States Engrneers and changes had taken place, it was necessary to examine each link in the system in detail in order to show present conditions adequately. Tho inspection was made in a. launch drawing 2 feet forward and 3 feet aft. The route taken was as follows: Passing up Elizabeth River and through the Dismal Swamp Canal to Elizabeth City, N. C., thence through the new Government canal to Morehead City and Beaufort. From Morehead City the route w11s through Bogue Sound to Swansboro, thence out to sea at Bogue Inlet, down the coast to Little River Inlet, and through North Inlet to Winyah Bay, thence to Charleston, thence south to Jacksonville, thence to St. Augustine, thence to Miami, and from Miami to Key West. 'fhe entire travel from Norfolk to Key West was through inside passages and waterways, except between Bogue Inlet and Winyah Bay and across Bull Bay. At tho latter place low tide prevented crossing in the lee of the shoals at the head of tho bay. From Biscayne Buy to Key West tho route was north and west of tho keys through cuts dredged by the Florida East Coast Railroad Co. Information was obtained regarding the general conditions at places along the route and their facilities for supplying passing craft. From Key Wost the route was retraced to Norfolk, a more detailed examination was made of tho waterways, and alternate routes wore examined. Particular attention was paid to the shallow waterways not accessible to ocean-going vessels. Nearly all tho inlets on tho coast of Florida having depths of 3 foot or more over tho bars wore examined, and tho least depths determined by soundings. Information was obtained also from local · pilots. At St. Augustine a survey was made of the San Sebastian River below the town, which is becoming commercially important. A new inside route around the head of Bull Bay was examined. When this is complotod, there will be an inside passage around Bull Bay, limited to drafts of 4 f cot at low water. At present this d.raf t can be carried through at half tide. North Inlet at Winyah Bay, Corncake Inlet at Cape Fear, Wri~hts ville, New Topsail, and New H.iver Inlets were sounded and exammed. The yacht Triomyx, of New York, sighted offshore and displaying a distress signal, having lost her rudder and sustained other mjuries in a storm, was towed to a safe anchorn.ge in Wrightsville Inlet. On tho northward p~ssago tho ocean travel was reduced over 15 miles by entering at New River Inlet instead of Bogue Inlet. An inside route; good for 4 f oet at high tide, was found to connect tho two inlets. From Bogue Inlet tho route was through Bogue Inlet to Beaufort, thence through Coro Sound, along tho eastern sido of Pamlico Sound, through Roanoke Sound and across Albormarle Sound to North River and Albemarle & Chesapeake Canal. Detail<~d information concerning thoso routes will bo publislwd hereafter.

78

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

WASHINGTON: SPEED-TRIAL COURSE FOR SUB.MARINES, POUT TOWNSEND BAY.

[C. G.

QUILLIAN,

Commanding Steamer McArthur.]

At tho reguest of tho Navy Department, tho speed-trial course for submarines m Port Townsend Bay, Wash., was verified by tho party on board the steamer jJfcArthur, acting under tho instructions of Assistant J. F. Pratt, in charge of tho Seattle suboffico. The McArthur sailed from West Seattle on .May 8, arriving in Port Townsend Bay the sall).O day early enough to inspect tho ranges and make plans for the field work. On tho 9th, 10th, and morning of the 11th, eight signals were erected and occupied. At Southwest Base station it was necessary to erect a tripod and scaffold signal. The trial course is on a line connoctmg a range mark on u cannery wharf a little to tho eastward of the railroad station in Port Townsend and a range mark on the chemical works at tho southerly end of Port Townsend Bay. Tho north end of the trial course is abreast two range beacons on Walan Point. This Walan Point range, called North Range, was used for the initial range, both in distance and direction. The course extends toward tho south end of the bay 1 nautical mile, and is subdivided into quarter knots. With tho exception of North Range all of the front beacons are built on two piles in tho water at each front, while the roar ones are built at high-water mark along tho shore. Tho two north range beacons and tho remaining four rear ones are tall poles, 6 to 8 inches in diameter at their bases, planted in tho ground. All of these range beacons, both front and roar, are painted in red and white bands and su:i:mountcd by white triangular-shaped gratings whose faces aro 2arallel with tho trial course. Auxiliary signals wore built exactly on line betwoen North Front Rango and North Roar Range and exactly 8 feet from each of their centers. Auxiliary signals wore also built on tho line of each of the remainining roar ranges and ut tho same distance from them. . All of those auxiliary stations wero carefully centerod and plumbed and formed the framework to carry the positions of the ranges.
ALASKA: LONGITUDE DETERMINATION AT COPPER CENTER.
[EDWIN SMITH

and

c. v. HODGSON.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTS.'-Latitutle, longitude, and azimuth; 2 lil.titnde stations occupied; 2 longitude ~tations occupied.

Between July 1 and August 27 a determination was made by two cooperating observers of the latitude and longitude of a point at Copper Center, Alaska, for the use of the United States Land Survey Office. Upon arrival of the observers at Valdez, Alaska, on July 22, the work was delayed by floods which interfered with tho transportation of tho observers to Copper Center and also with tho building of tho observatory at Valdez. Tho pier used by Assistant Welker in 1910 was found standing, but in an insecure condition. At Copper Center the station was located a little northwest of the United States Army

REPORT. OF SUPEHINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

79

telegraph s"tation. The center of the transit was tho station, and is marked by a copper disk triangulation station mark on which aro stamped the words "Astronomical Station" about tho triangle. The latitude of Copper Center was determined by 20 observations on I 9 pairs of stars. These observations were made on the nights of August 6, 8, 13, 14, and 17, with meridian tolescopo No. 2. It was not until August 5 that an exchange of signals with Copper Center was obtained. On the 8th, 11th, 13th, and 16th the exchange of signals was continued, completing tho determination required, and on the 26th the observers started for Seattle. Acknowledgment is made of assistance rendered by the Signal C~rp.s, United States Army, and by tho United States Road Comm1ss10nor.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMMISSION.

fH. P.

RITTER.]

As authorized by law, un oflicer of tho Survey has continued to serve us a member of the :Mississippi River Commission and hus performed the duties incident to that office und attended the meetmgs of the commission in addition to his work as un officer of the Survey. The sunie officer was designated the Secretary of Commerce and Labor us a delegate on the part o the United States to tho twelfth meeting of the International Association of Navigation Congresses held ut Philadelphia in May, 1912.

bl

CALIFORNIA

AND :MARYLAND: INTERNATIONAL OBSERVATIONS DETERMINE THE VARIATION 01'' LATITUDE.

TO

[F. E. Ross and S. D.

MADDRILL,

Observers in Charge.]

Work ut the latitude observatories at Gaithersburg, Md., and Ukiah, Cal., maintained by tho International Geodetic Association has been continued under the direction of tho Superintendent. Observations with the zenith telescope to determine the variation of latitude at these observatories have been made in accordance with the program adopted by tho association. At Gaithersburg a simultaneous series of observations have been made with the optical zenith telescope and with the photographic zenith tube designed by Dr. F. E. Ross, the observer in charge, which was completed and installed during the preceding year.
NORTH CAROLINA: BOUNDARIES OF FISHING GROUNDS.

[W. M.

STEIRNAGLE.]

In the early part of October, at the reqtwst or tlw Fish Commission of North Carolina, Mr. W. M. Steirnugle wns <lin~ctPd to Pxccuto certain work desired by the commission in defining tho fishing limits in Albemarle, Croatun, and Pamlico Sounds. For use in this work the State launch Gretchen, in charge of Mr. E. T. Jones, inspector for tho commission, was assigned. The most pressing necessity was for a survey of tho 2,000-yard limit along Durant Island on tho south side of Albermurle Sound, as the :fishermen were beginning to set nets there in largo numbers for the fall :fishing.

80

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Along this section of the coast, from Alligator River to Croatan Light, a distance of about 11 miles, :fishing had never been carried on so extensively before, and no survey had been made there. There was also need for an examination of the buoys in Pamlico Sound, and the establishment of ranges for determining the position of buoy No. 24, known as the 10-mile buoy, its position being fixed by law as 10 miles south-southeast magnetw from Big Island. This buoy was reported to have been moved several miles to the northward by the :fishermen, thus enlarging their fishing limits. It was decided, however, to proceed at once with the surveys along Durant Island and to leave the work in Pamlico Sound for later investigation. A reconnoissance having been made, work began at the west end of the line on October 10. As the work progressed diHiculties arose as to the interpretation of the State laws, the provisions of which appeared to conflict. Some of the nets were also found to have been set a considerable distance over the line at aplace called the Haulover and the owners declined to move them. However, the work was continued with some interruptions, and on November 17 six buoys were placed in the vicinity of Caroons Point, thus completing the work in Albermarle and Croatan Sound. On November 20 work was taken up in Pamlico Sound, beginning on the west side from Roanoke Marshes to Shoal River, a distance of of about 22 miles. Here every one of the buoys previously established was found to have disappeared, as also later proved to be the case on the east side of the sound. All of the signals from Stumpy Point southward had also disappeared. Stations "Marsh" and "Sandy Point" were reestablished by points farther inshore. West of Long Shoal Point three bases were measured, making six in all for the season. Six stations were visited an·d re-marked, signals erected, 22 buoys placed, and a reconnoissance made at Oregon Inlet and at Pea Island for ranges to fix the position of the IO-mile buoy. At Oregon Inlet a tower 38 feet high w~ erected to serve as the back range mark, and a similar mark was erected just south of the Pea Island Clubhouse to serve the same purpose for the sou th range. To provide for the possible destruction of the fish house which furnishes the front range mark at Pea Island, a second point on the range was marked about 1 mile eastward of the back range mark. With the placing of nine more buoys in Pamlico Sound the work was brought to a close on December 15. Acknowledgment is made of assistance rendered by Mr. C. S. Vann, the Fish Commissioner of Nor th Carolina, and Mr. Theodore G. Meekins, his predecessor in office; the crew of the Oregon Inlet LifeSaving Station, and the owners of the Pea Island Clubhouse.
CALIFORNIA: SAN LUIS OBISPO BAY.

[T. L.

wARNER.j

SUMMARY OF Rf:su1,Ts.-Triangulation: 11 square miles of area covered, 2 signals erected, 8 geograJ?hic positions determined. Hydrography: 9.4 square miles of area gone over with wire drag, 84 miles run with drag, 55 soundings made, 1 tidal station established, 1 hydrographic sheet completed.

In accordance with urgent requests from the shipping interests of the port, an examination with the wire drag .was made of the harbor

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT~ COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

81

of San Luis Obispo, Cal., for the purpose of determining the position of certain isolated pinnacle rocks dangerous to nn:v1gation, upon which several large vessels had struck, one of them, the steamer Lansing, being damaged to the extent of about $30,000. The commercial importance of this port, due to the large shipments of oil, the shipments of one company aggregating over 8,000,000 barrels in 1911, called for a careful examrnation of the harbor, such as could only be made effectively by the use of the drag. Wire-drag work was begun March 14 and completed April 24. As the results of this examination, many hidden dangers were discovered, which will be plotted on the charts. The total area covered was 9.4 square miles, of which about twothirds lyip.g in deep water outside the breakwater was rapidly completed. In the remaining area, where the depths were less and the bottom irregular, the examination took a longer time. Numerous rocks were found in the locality of the former wharf at Oilport, and to the southward and southeastward of the wharf at Port San Luis. The wharf at Avila was found not to have sufficient depth of water for large vessels and not entirely protected from the heavy ocean swells. A site between the wharf at Port San Luis and that at Avila would appear to offer the greatest advantages.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES.

[O. II.

TrrTMANN,

Commissioner.]

UNITED STATES AND CA:-!ADA BOUNDAUY.

[E. C.

BARNARD.]

SuMMAHY OF RESt:LTs.-TopoB'ffiphy: 166.25 miles of boundary mapped, 338 square miles of topography, 6 topograplncal sheets finished. Leveling: 287. l 2 miles of levels run, 137 miles of check levels run, 136 permanent bench marks established, 134 temporary bench marks csta.bliAhed. Boundary location: 163.40 miles of boundary located, 42 monument sites recovered, 45 monument sites located. These statistics are for the entire season, beginning in May and ending in October, 1911, and for May and June, 1912.

The survey of the international boundary line between the United States and Canada, along the forty-ninth parallel, east of the summit of the Rocky Mountains, which had been resumed in the spring of 1911, was continued from the beginning of the fiscal year until October 21. The survey and interpolation of monument sites was carried from monument 261, near the crossing at the east fork of the Poplar River, to monument 219, a distance of 124.40 miles, connecting with the work of tho Can11dian surveyors. The line of primary levels along the boundary wns continued from monument 265 to monument 219, a distance of 136.15 miles, and 106. 97 miles of levels were run to connect with bench marks for check and elevation control. The topography of the region for a wi<l th of I mile on each side of the boundary was executed on a scale of 1/45,000 with a contour interval of 20 feet, and the positions of tho monument sites were located on the sheets. The level lines wore run so as to determine tho elevations of all monument sites. The levels were started from a point on the
67901°-13...:..._e

82

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Poplar River about 20 miles below Scobey, from a bench mark established by the United States Geological Survey. In order to check the levels run iilong the boundary line during the season, a line of primary levels was run from the United States Geological Survey bench mark in Ray, N. Dak., northward along the roads to the boundary, and permanent bench marks were establiShed at intervals of 3 miles. The line of levels was also extended to Portal, N. Dak., to connect with the line of levels run by the Canadian party, and a bench mark was established there. The leveling was done with wye levels; the lines run in one direction only. The permanent bench marks along the boundary line were bronze tablets set in the foundation of each monument, and on the levels lines to connect with marks already established; they were hollow iron posts 4 feet long an<l 4 inches in diameter, with brass caps and flanged base, set 3 feet in the ground. The elevation of each bench mark to the nearest foot was stamped on the boundary monuments and on the brass caps of the iron posts. The intermediate monument sites were located by offsets from chords joining the adjacent monuments. The monument sites were marked by hubs with reference stakes, and a pole with a small flag at the top set over the hub. A monument was established locating the boundary line between Montana and North Dakota. The original site of monument No. 230 was recovered by the extension of a chord through monuments 231 and 232, and m setting a monument at the point determined, the original mark, a hub, 5 inches in diameter, was found. In September the chief topographer made a trip to the Lake of the Woods for the purpose of inspectmg the region over which the work was to be extended during the next season. The Canadian party, under charge of Mr. J. J. McArthur, was visited. An inspection was made of the topography along the boundary from Point Roberts to Sumas, Wash., and in tlie vicinity of Chapaka, Moulson, and Midway, Wash., and Eastport, Idaho, with especial reference to the location of roads and railroads, and the necessary additions were made to the boundary maps. A case of smallpox in the boundary party under charge of Assistant C. II. Sinclair necessitated a strict quarantine and other precautionary measures, which proved effective in preventing the spread of the disease. Some delay in the work in the early part of the season was caused by the straying of the pack animals. A fire in the camp on Lone Tree Lake resulted in the loss of two of the tents, but no other serious damage. Work was resumed in May, 1912, from Red River eastward and included topography leveling and vista cutting. The leveling was started from the Canadian geodetic bench mark in the post-office building in Emerson Manitoba, the elevation of which h.ad been furnished by the Canadian commissioner. A line of check levels was run over the work of the preceding section. Topography was begun at the first monument west of Red River by two parties. Another party was engaged in vista cutting through the brush on the east oank of Red River. Rapid progress was made in the work at the beginning, as the country for 10 lnilcs east of the river was very flat, clear of timber,

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

83

and traversed by many roads. Further to the eastward, however, numerous swamps were encountered along the boundary, which retarded progress and made the work more laborious. On June 30 the topographic work had advanced to monument 31, a distance of 39 miles; the leveling to monument 25, a distance of 44 miles, and the vista cutting for 45 miles had been completed. The Canadian representative, Mr. R. L. Rnnnie, jomed the party on .May 15 and rendered valuable assistance in the prosecution of the work.
[J. B.
IlAYi,.on.] SUMMARY OF RESULTB.-Base lines: 6 base lineR me:i.sured, length of baso lines 1,050 meters. Triangulation: 158 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 160 Reographic positions determined. Leveling: 9 miles of levels run. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth work: 2 azimuth stations occupied. 'foJ!ography: 26.5 square miles of area surveyed, 32.4 miles of shore line of rivers, 11.7 miles of shore line of lakes, 32.4 miles of shore line of creeks, 5.3 miles of shore line of J?Onds, 6.2 miles of roads, 1.6 miles of railroads, 5 topographic sheets finished, 18.6 miles of boundary surveyed, 59 monuments erected, replaced, or determined in po.~ition.

Work on the survey of the boundary between the United States and Canada in the valley of the St. Francis River, as stated in the last annual report, was in progress on June 30. The plan of work adopted for the season was that the American }:)arty should continue the survey from Cross Lake up the St. Francis River and that the Canadian party should commence their work at Lake Pohenegamook where the international boundary leaves the St. Francis River and carry thei.r surveys down the river until a joint line connecting the two surveys should be reached. By the early part of November this program had been carried out, and the survey of the St. Francis River was completed. Progress was greatly retarded by the dense forests on both banks of the stream. During the season the American party occupied 157 triangulation stations, making a full series of observations at each station. Six check base lines were measured with a standard tape line, and two azimuth stations were occupied. The unfinished plane-table sheet of tho previous season at Cross Lake was completed, and four other plane-table sheets on a scale of 1/5,000 were completed by the American party, showing in detail every bend in the river, with a complete map of the adjacent shores. The Canadian party completed a similar survey of the upper St. Francis River to the line of Junction with the American party, a short distance above the mouth of "Riviere Bleue," where it empties into the St. Francis River. An independent party was organized in .Tune to open a lane along the straight line, forming the boundary, south and west of Lake Pohenegamook, through the dense forests, in advance of the work to be done next season. For the first 45 miles of this boundary, to a point near St. Pamphile post office, this boundary can only be reached at a fow points by almost impassable trails running for miles through an unbroken forest. Before the close of the season a 30-foot trail had been opened and cleared of trees through this most difficult section of the boundary, so as to be ready for tho line measures and lllonumenting to be undertaken next season. . In May, 1912, work wn.s resumed on the measurement of the 65rnile straight lino between Maine and Quebec through the dense forest

84

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, CO.AST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

southwest of Boundary Lake. For this measurement 100-foot invar tapes were used by the American party and 100-foot steel tapes by tho Canadian party, each party measuring alternate sections of the lino. The old iron boundary monuments of 1842 were reset in concrete below the frost line, and additional monuments of concrete were established where necessary on prominent points. A topographical survey on a scale of 1/10,000 was made of the country adjacent to the boundary where possible to do so. By June 30 about 4 miles of the measurement and topographical survey bad been completed by the American party. About the middle of June a separate party was put in tho field for the_purposo of opening up a lane through the forest south and west of Boundary Lake, and at the end of Juno bad completed about 5 miles of the boundary line adjacent to St. Pamphile, Province of Quebec.
[W. B. FAIRFIELD.]
SUMMAR':.' OF RESULTS.-Triangulation: 22.7 square miles of area covered, 67 signals erected, 243 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 70 stations occupied for vertical measures, 275 geographic positions determined, 121 elevations determined trigonometrically, 2 azimuth stations occupioo. Topography: 16.5 square miles of area covered, 118! miles of shore line surveyed, 4 topographic sheets completed.

The survey of the portion of the United States and Canada boundary between the mouth of Pigeon River and Lake of tho Woods was resumed early in June, 1911, the first work undertaken being tho completion of the topography of Roso Lake, which had been left unfuiished at the close of tlio previous season. At tho same time the triangulati.on was extended to the westward from the line Agile-Bold. By using tho high hills and bluffs on either side of the lakes, generally from one-quarter to ono-half mile back from the shores, the main or controlling scheme of triangulation, with sidos from one-half mile to 3 miles in length, was made to cover South, North, and Gunflint Lakes. The triangulation was then carried north to the two stations "Droit" and" Carlos," about halfway between Gunflint and Saganaga Lakes, covering the rough and broken country through which flows tho stream connecting those two lakes. Between North and Gunflint Lakes a smaller scheme of triangulation, connected with the largo scheme, was carried on, covering Little North and Little Gunflint Lakes, to furnish points for tho topography. A sin1ilar scheme was extended between Gunflint and Round Lakes, covering the narrows and small ponds between those two lakes. All of the triangulation stations were permanently marked either with a brass plate set in tho solid rock or by a drill hole with a triangle cut around it. The topography on a scale of 1/20,000 covers the shore line of all the bounilary lakes, largo and small, also that of North Lake, the greater part of which lies in Canada. Tho streams connecting the various lakes and the portages, and also that part of the water route between Magnetic and Round Lakes, known as the "River,'' wero all surveyed on a scale of 1/5,000. At Height-of-Land portage and at Pine portage 5-foot contours were run. Double zenith distances were observed at enough triangulation stations to cai:ry the elevations through the entire scheme and to determine the levels of all the lakes. Observations for azimuth were

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

85

made at three stations. A base line 973 meters in length was measured along the unused railroad line on the north shore of Gunflint Lake and connected with the triangulation. The Canadian latitude and longitude station pier, located at North Lake, about 40 meters west of the railroad station, was connected with tho triangulation. The pier is of concrete and is in a good state of preservation. From the last camp occupied on Pine Lake work was extended as far north as Round Lake. Field operations were closed for the season on October 18. Work was resumed on North Lake in May, 1912, and by June 30 the triangulation had been extended from above Round Lake to Saganaga Lake and a considerable portion of the topography completed.
[O. B. FRENCH.] RESULTs.-Reconnoissance: 25 square miles of area covered, 27 lines of interviaibility determined, 16 pointB selected for scheme. Base lines: 5 secondary base Jines me:umred. Triangulation: 25 square miles of area covered, 2!l signal poles erected, 14 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 4 stations occupied for vertical measures, 27 geographic positions determined, 3 elevations determined trigonometrically. Leveling: 11 miles of levels run.
SuMllrARY OF

In May, instructions were issued for the measurement of 13 base lines along the United States and Canada boundary. A Jlarty was organized for this work and work begun in the vicinity of Pembina, N. Dak., early in June. A base 2! kilometers in length was measured along the boundary at Neche, N. Dak., and connected by triangulation with stations "Neche," "Long," and "Criton XXXfII" of the boundary triangulation. At Haskett, Manitoba, a base 4.6 kilometers in length was measured along the railroad with tapes resting on the top of one of the rails. It is practically the same line measured by Mr. McArthur in 1911. Mr. McArthur's station "Sou th Base" was not recovered, but his station "North Base" was found and connected with the new base by tape and angular measurement. At Hannah, N. Dak., a base 2 .8 kilometers long was measured and connected by triangulation with stations "Hannah," "Star," and "Water Tank" of the boundary work. At Bannerman, Mr. McArthur's base, 3.9 kilometers in length, was recovered and measured. A base 2.3 kilometers long was measured just south of the boundary north of Souris, N. Dale, and connected with stations "Knoll" and "Bottineau," with an ayproximate check on "Steel." The Souris base measure Was completed on June 29. Valuable assistance was rendered by the Canadian surveyor, Mr. J. J. McArthur, in recovering the old stations in this work and in the section of base sites. The progress of the work was much facilitated by the use of an autotruck for the transportation of the party and outfit, no difficulty being experienced in moving camp from 75 to 100 miles in a day over all sorts of roads.
[F. G.
GRANGER.]

By June 30, 1911, the operations of the Canadian party under charge of Mr. J. J. McArthur, in the survey and monumenting of the boundary line between the United States and Canada in North

86

HEPORT OF SUPEHINTENDEN'f, COAST AND C:EODETIC SUHVlff.

Dakota and Manitoba, had reached the iron monument No. 154 (long. 99° 03'). This monument was the westernmost of tho iron pillars which were placed 1 mile apart along the boundary westward from Lake of the Woods in 1870-1872. An inspection of these monuments was made in the autumn of 1910 by a member of the Canadian party, who found many of them in a damaged condition. All of the damaged monumPnts as far east as No. 70 at the Red River, where the season's work ended, were replaced in 1911 by new cast-iron monuments 1 and all of those found to be in good condition were removed, filled with a mixture of sand and cement and reset in a mixture of sand, cement, and broken stone. Each monument wus afterwards given a coat of red paint. A scheme of triangulation wus carried along the boundary, covering a distance of 118 miles along its axis, during tho season. Work begun in May, 1911, at monument No. 170 in Turtle Mountain and ended November 8, 1911, at monument No. 70, situated west of and nenr the Red River. The last points occupied were well marked and will be available for the f u turc connection of the work with the triangulation of the Coast and Geodetic Survey along the ninetyeig_hth meridian, the terminal points of which are at Emerson, Mont. During the season two base lines were measured and observations for azimuth were made in the vicinity of each base. All monuments along the line of survey were connected with the triangulation. As usual, a line of levels was run along the boundary and a contour level was also employed where rendered necessnry by the topographic features in mapping the 2-mile wide strip required of the survey. The plane table was also used to delineate the streams, roads, farms, and other topographic features. . Mr. F. D. Granger, as heretofore, accompanied the party of Mr. McArthur as representative of the comrniss10ner. In May, 1912, Mr. Granger again was directed to join the party of Mr. J. J. McArthur, Domin10n Land Surveyor, to act as the representative of the United States commissioner in the survey and demarcation of the international boundary from the northwestern angle of the Lake of the Woods southward through said lake to and following the Rainy River. Mr. Granger joined the Canadian party at Northwest Angle Inlet on June 15. 'rhe Canadian party had begun work in May, and had begun a scheme of triangulation near North West Point and extending to within a mile or two of the mouth of the inlet; a preliminary base line had been measured and a portion of the work done. Search was made for the North West Point and for the reference monument, but without success. The two iron monuments on the meridian boundary were found in a good state of preservation and preparations made to connect them with the triangulation. Three wu.ter-level gauges have been established and soundings have been made in the inlet. The water level of the lake on June 30 was 3.2 feet below its mean level, as determined by seven years' observations by the United States Engineers (1904 to 1910, inclusive) at Warroad, Minn. The gal,!g!lS established are being connected with the Government gauge at Warroad by simultaneous observations.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GSODETIC SURVEY.

87

[J. E. McGnATH.]
SuMMARY OF nEsums.-ReconnoisR11nce: 70 square miles of urea covered, 328 lines of intervisibility determined, 64 points selected for scheme. 'J'rinngulation: 70 square miles of urea covered, 43 signals erect.ed, 1 observing scaffold built, 48 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 98 geographic positions determined. Leveling: 1,851.7 feet of levels run. Topography: 9 square miles of area surveyed, 3() miles of shore line of rivers surveyed, 4 miles of shore line of creeks surveyed, 16 miles of roads surveyed, 2 topographical sheet<i completed.

Work on the northeastern boundary between the United States and Canada in the valley of the St. Crouc Ifrver was resumed in June, 1911, by an American party working in conjunction with a Canadian party. The work planned for the senson was a topographical survey to show the limits of the present river area between Woodland and Pomeroy Landing, between which points is un artificial lake about 7 ·miles in length created by the construction of the great concrete dam erected at Woodland by the Intemationul Paper Co. As the result of this construction the original shore line of the river has been obliterated or greatly changed. The wooded character of the country and the loggmg operations in the river combined to make the progress of surveying wor:K both slow and difficult. By the beginning of the fiscal year, however, the necessary lines of sight were opened and work with the plane table begun. This being completed, the party was moved to the next field of work in the vicimty of Vanceboro. Here a topographical survey was made, on a scale of 1/10,000, of the section of the St. Croix River included between the dam above the railroad bridge at Vanceboro and McPhails's rolling tier, the only section of the river which remained to be surveyed topographically upon this scale. In addition to this work the triun~lation above Vanceboro was revised and supplemented by the addition of several new stations necessary for the control of the topography, and a small triangulation was carried down the river below Vanceboro, connecting tJ:ie topography in vicinity of Simsquish Creek. This completed the scheme prescribed for the connection of the triangulation and topo~ raphy of the St. Croix V11lley between V unccboro and Woodlan<t. In the meanwhile the Canadian surveyor, Mr. Brabazon, who h11d just completed a traverse survey of the Canadian shore line in the overflowed area above Woodland, moved to Vanceboro with his party and began the reference-station marking at the lower end· of Chiputneticook Lake. The American party next took up the work at the lower end of Grand Lake. Stations of the surveys of 1890 and 1891 around the shores of Grand Lake and North Lake were recovered, reoccupied, and re-marked, and new stations were established and occupied where needed. On the completion of the work in Grand Lake and the location of new points near the passage connectin(J' North 11nd Grand Lakes, known as the ''Thoroughfare,'' ''Gull Rock fl in North Lake was located and marked, and certain topographical features about the mouth of Monument Stream (the brook at the head of the St. Croix River) and the shores of North Lake were located by triangulation. This completed the necessary connections and markmg from Forest City, at the lower end of Grand Lake, to the mouth of Monument Stream, and the station marking for the St. Croix River from its mouth to Monument Stream, excepting what remains to be done in Mud Lake and Chiputneticook Lake.

88

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

No change of any moment was noticed at Forest City except the construction of a small dam by the International Paper Co. and the deepening of the outlet to Grund Lake by about 2 feet. A traverse line was surveyed, by which the lo ca ti on of the dam could be shown on the old topographic11l map, its s11lient points being thereby connected with a triangulation station and readily identified points on the sheet. Work was closed for the se11son on October 27. Work was resumed in June, Hl12, and after gathering such data as could be obtained at Calais, Me.i concerning the locat10n of certain mills in relation to the boundary ine, and after a conference with the Canadian representative, active field operations were at once begun near the mouth of :Monument Stream. Signals were erected and a reconnoissance made along tho shores of North Lake and up Monument Stream for the select10n of stations for the triangulation and the recovery of such old stations us might remain. Station "Poplar" was recovered and also station "Hornet," the latter after the close of the fiscal year. During the remainder of the time the party was eng11ged in clearing lines of sight and locutions for signals.
[C. II.
SINCLAIR.j SUMMARY OP HEStJLTs.-Reconnois8ance: 476 square miles of area covered. Base lines: Length of, 2,145 meters. Triangulation: 476 square miles of area covered, 193 signals erected, 193 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 193 stations occupied for vertical measures, 204 geographic positions determined, 204 elevations determmed trigonometrically. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth: 1 aiimuth station occupied. (These statistics arc for the season from May to October.)

As mentioned in the last annual report, a rarty engaged in the survey and monumenting of the internationa boundary line resumed work in :May, 1911, near the micl<lle brunch of Poplar River, in longitude 105° 52', and by July 1 ha<l extended the boundary triangulation to the eastward about 40 miles and the reco.nnoissance about 10 miles farther. During the period beginning July 1 and ending October 14 the survey was carried to the eastward to the neighborhood of Short Creek, longitude 102° 47'. Monuments were set along the line and their posit10ns determined by triangulation as tho work progressed. At .Ambrose, N. Dak., on September 16, a base line 2,145 meters in length was measured with a 50-meter invar tape on the south rail of the "Soo" railroad track. An azimuth was measured at West Base on July 12, 13, and 14 with a Berger & Sons repeating theodolite, and time was observed with the same instrument. Near Ambrose is the terminus of tho principal triangulation running north from the thirty-ninth parallel near Denver, Colo. The line at the boundary is 11.2 miles in length, and to connect it with the small triangulation along the boundary two extra points, "Jasper" and "Bilby," were put in, making a line 5.25 miles long, and forming a main quadrilateral and three subordinate ones. The last camp was at the second crossing of Long Creek, counting from the west, nearly 8 miles north and 1 mile west of Kermit, and about 5 miles from tho end of the section between Frenchmans Creek and Short Creek, where a junction was made with the Canadian triangulation on two lines. The last of the monuments.was set from this camp.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

89

A monument was set on the international boundary to mark its junction with the boundary between Montana and North Dakota. Work on the boundary was resumea in May, H112, in the vicinity of Emerson, Manitoba, from which J?Oint the reconnoissance was continued, signals built, and observat10ns made. Owing to the high timber, signals 30 feet in height had to be built in many places for the triangulation. The triangulation began west of the Red River from the last line in the Canadian scheme of the previous season, and by June 30 signals had been erected as fur east as monument 47, a distance of about 25 miles. Monuments 71 to 59, inclusive, were located by triangulation. Monuments 58 to 47 were located by invar tape measurements and each monument was measured to carry along the azimuth. By utiliziJ:% the primary line "States" to "Canada" of the ninetyeighth meridian scheme, a base measurement near Red River was unnecessary, and the triangulation along the forty-ninth parallel east of the Rocky Mountains was put upon the United States standard datum. Ten stations in the main scheme were occupied. All of the monuments from 71 to 53 were occupied, besides nine subordinate . stations. The monuments are 1 mile apart. Sixteen signals were erected, of which seven were towers.
Al,ASKA DOUNDARY, [ASA BALDWIN.) SuMMARY OP RESULTS.-Reconnoissance: 240 square milos of area covered, 14 points selected for scheme. Base lines: 1 base-line site selected, 1.75 miles in length. Triangulation: 14 signal poles erected, 9 stations occupied for horizontal measures. Latitude, longitude, and azimuth work: 1 latitude station occupied, 1 azimuth station occupied.

Mr. Asa Baldwin was instructed in the spring of 1912 to execute the triangulation of the Alask11 boundary in the Mount St. Elias region in the vicinity of Scolai Pass, and to cooperate with the party of Mr. D. W. Eaton. He arrived in Alaska March 27. Complete details of progress made in this work are not yet available.
[D. \V. EATON.)

In the spring of Hll2 Mr. D. W. Eaton was instructed to proceed to Alaska and take up the topography of tho one hundred and fortyfirst meridian boundary line between Alaska und Canada in the region between Mount N atazhat and Mount St. Elias. This work was in P.rogress at the end of June, but the details of work are not yet available. Earthquake shocks were experienced on the evening of June 6, and on June 8 a slight foll of ashes was noticed, probably from the Katmai volcano.
[FREMON'!' MORSE.] SUMMARY OP nr:suLTs.-Reconnois.'lllnce: 7 square miles of area covered, 30 lines of intervisibility <letermined as per sketch submitted, 15 /ioints selected for scheme. Triangulation: 7 square miles of area covered, 14 si11na poleR erected, 15 stat.ions occupied for horizontal measures, 15 station1:1 occupied for vertical measures, 13 geographic positions determined, and 10 elevations determined trigonometrically.

A Canadian party under charge of Mr. Frank H. Mackie, engaged in the survey and marking of the boundary between Alaska and Canada on Portland Canal, was in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year. Mr. Fremont Morse, Assistant, Coast and Geodetic

90

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUlffEY.

Survey, was attached to this party us the representative of the United States Commissioner. The plan of the season's work as laid out by the Canadian surveyor included a scheme of triangulation down Portland Canal, with stations located on the mountains on either side. This triangulation was planned as the foundation for u photographic survey of the country bordering the canal. In addition to the topographic work, boundary reference monuments were to be erected opposite turning points of the boundary line on each side of the canul, and each was to be connected with the triangulation executed in 1888 by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The reference monuments were also to be connected with the mountain triangulution wherever practicable. Work in the early part of the season was delayed by the deep snows upon the mountain peaks. · The party was divided, one section going ahead and selecting the triangulation points, putting up signals, and taking the photographs necessary for the topogrnphy, while the other made all the mountain triangulation observat10ns and a part of the triangulation for the location of the reference monuments. The rest of this triangulation was done by the American representative. The field computations were carried on as the work progressed. Signals were erected and stations occupied at all accessible points from the first camp at Portland City, the old stations "Eaofo Point :Monument," "Lion Point Astronomical Station," and "A" being used as starting points. From the camp at Glacier Bay monuments U.S. 26, C 26, U.S. 25, C 25, U.S. 24, and C 24, were located and determined in position. From the camp near Geor~~a River a scheme of trian~ulation was executed, startmg from the lino "Deer" to "Pack" of t110 Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation, for the location of reference monuments U.S. 23, C 23, U.S. 22, and C 22. Reference monuments U.S. 21 and C 21 were located from tho River Point camp .. Monuments were built at U.S. 22, C 22, U.S. 23, C 23, U.S. 24, C 24, U.S. 25, C 25, U.S. 26 and C 26. The monuments were constructed of concrete, and each was in the form of the frustum of a square pyramid, with a base 12 by 12 inches, tapering to 6 by 6 inches, and 3 feet in height. Each was secured to the solid rock on which it stood by an iron rod, which was sunk half its length into a hole drilled in the rock and secured therein by a wedge-shaped key that projected up into the split end of the rod, as well as by cement poured around it in the drill hole. The upper half of the rod was embedded in the concrete of the monument. In one case, U.S. 25, the monument stood on a gravel foundation, and a concrete base was made for it. Work was closed for the season on September 25.
[THOMAS Rroos, Jr.] SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Triangulation: 826 square miles of area covered, 98.l statute miles of boundary trian~ulated, 85 statiolll occupied, 13 stations reoccupied, 2 base lines measured, IPngth ot ba.se linc>s 3,197 .0971 meters and 2,081.9152 meters. Magnetic observationB: 9 magnetic stations occupied. Linc projection: 9 stationB occupied, 122.5 statute milc>,a of line covered. Topography: 814 square miles of area surveyed, 621 miles of traverse lines run, length of topographic belt 164 statute miles, extremes of latitude 66° 42' 5011 and 69° 04' 0011 ·

The party for continuing the survey and demarcation of the one hundred and forty-fiist meridian boundary between Alaska and

REPORT OP SUPElUNTENDENT, COAST A~D OEODETlC SCRV1'W.

91

Canadn wns organized early in tho spring of 1911. Owing to the remoteness of the region to be traversed and the amount of work to be done before reaching the Arctic Ocean, it was decided to leave a party in the North during the winter of 1911-12 for the purpose of forwarding supplies along the boundary and to be on the gr·Jundso as to take advantage of the enrliest favorable weather for field work in the spring. For this reason the chid of party left Washington earlier than usual, in order to personally inspect the supplies to be purchased for the winter party and for the use of the mam party in 1912. The organization of the party was completed at Seattle, Wash., in March. An officer was sent to Whitehorse early in April to supervise certain details connected with tho launches to be used for transportation during tho season. Tho main party sailed from Seattle May 6 and arrived at Skagway on the 10th, leaving Skagway for the interior on tho 12th and 13th. Somo delay was caused by the wreck on Thirty ~file River of the steamer La France, cnrrying a large amount of freight for tho boundary party. This was afterwards recovered; but in tho meanwhile certain portions of the outfit had to be replaced. Tho advance party arrived at Dawson .May 23 and left that place on the 27th, arriving nt the Rampart House on June 1. The Canadian party and the remainder of the American party arrived on June 6. 'Field work was begun on June 3. The weather proved most favorable, and excellent progress was made <luring the season. An outbreak of smallpox mnong the Indians in July called for immediate action, and in the absence of other authority the chief surveyor and the surgeon of the boundary party took control of the situation, vaccinated the Indians, isolated those who had developed the disease, established a strict quarantine, and adopted such other sanitary measures as were practicable. The Canadian authorities soon sent assistance, and later on a representative of the United States Bureau of Education was sent by the Government to investigate and report, with authority from tho governor of Alaska to establish a quarantine at the mouth of tho Porcupine River. 'Vl1ile a number of cases occurred, the disease was kept under control. and but one death resulted. Mr. William B. Gilmore, surveyor, as representative of the United States Commissioner, was attached to the line-locating party under Mr. D. I-1. Nelles, D. L. S. Dr. D. D. Cairncs of the Geological Survey of Canada operated between the Porcupine and Yukon Rivers with the Canadian line cutting parties. To guard against any possible trouble along tho boundary _with tho whites or the Indians, at the request of the comrnissioners, Mr. W. B. Roaburn was appointed as Umted States Commissioner for Alaska for such time as he might be connected with the boundary work, al).d Mr. F. S. Hyus was appointed u United States deputy marshal to assist Mr. Roaburn. For the transportation of supplies on tho Porcupine and Old Crow Rivers, the 50-foot launch Midnight Sun equipped with 25-horsepower Doak gasoline engines, was built at Whitehorse during the winter and transported by sled~e to the foot of Lake Lo Barge before the breaking up of the ice. A sunilar launch, the Ji'rontierman, was chartered for

92

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the season. These launches were capable of pushing a 45-foot barge carrying about 8 tons. They proved invaluable. A sufficient number of horses in addition to those wintered at Champagne Landing to fill out the required number of 105 were purchased in Montana. They arrived in Seattle on May 6. Of these, 80 remained at the close of the season. A large shipment of supplies for the boundary party via St. Michaels arrived at Fort Yukon on July 24. 'l'he·party left Dawson on their way out October 5 and arrived at Seattle on the 19th. The relations between the American and Canadian parties were most cordial and full cooperation existed between them at all times. The details of the various operations are stated separately under the following headings: Reconrwissance.-W. B. Reaburn, surveyor in charge. The duty of laying out the triangulation scheme and erecting signals thereon was assigned to this party. The method employed was the same as used in previous years, namely, with special reconnoissance plane table and open-sight alidade. The base sites and connections were also selected by this rarty. In all 39 si~nals were erected on main scheme stations and 17 on secondary pomts for topograrhic control and line points. Reconnoissance was carried for a full quadrilateral beyond the triangulation, so that in the coming season there may be no delay in beginning the triangulation. Triangulation.-Asa C. Baldwin, surveyor in charge. Triangulation was conducted in accordance with the rules for tertiary triangulation of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, with additional instructions to fit local conditions. The instruments used were the 6!-inch and 7-inch Berger repeating theodolites on the main scheme stations and at main line points. The monument sites were tied into the main scheme with 4-inch Berger repeating theodolites. The starting point was the line Cone-Nassau, the two most northerly points reached by Mr. Gilmore in 1910. These points are about 10 miles north of Rampart House. Throughout the season there was only one party devoting itself entirely- to triangulation. 'l'his party was in charge of Mr. Asa C. Baldwm. Mr. Gilmore, the United States representative on the line projection party, tied in the main line points, and Messrs. Stewart and Lambart, m charge of the Canadian line cutting parties, tied in the monument sites. The boundary, as run by the joint line projection party has been accepted as the· true one hundred and forty-first degree of longitude, and all points adjusted to it. The triangulat10n was carried to latitude 68° 54', or a distance of approximately 100 miles north of the Porcupine River. The average width was from 10 to 12 miles . .Bases.-Two bases were measured during the year the Porcupine base just south of the Porcupine River and the Firth base between the two main forks of the Firth River in the vall~ of Three Rivers. The Porcupine base was measured by Mr. D. W. Eaton, assisted by Mr. Riggs on a remeasurement. The Firth River base was measured by Mr. Eaton, assisted by Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Gilmore

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC oUHV};Y.

93

Mr. Eaton prepared the base lines sites for measurement and made the observations for connecting them with the triangulation. He also made preparations for the erection of buildings, in the valley of the Old Crow River, which it was the original intention to use for winter quarters, but this plan was afterwards abandoned. Magnetic observations.-Mr. Baldwin, in addition to the work of triangulation, occupied nine stations with tho Coast and Geodetic Survey compass declinometer No. 744 for magnetic declination. .Mr. Guerin and 1\fr. Ryus, whenever possible, obtained a very close declination by scaling with a protractor from their plane-table sheets the true azimuth from the magnetic bearing. Line projection.-W. B. Gilmore, surveyor, attached as American representative to the Canadian party under charge of Mr. Douglas H. Nelles, D. L. S. Taking up the line projection at station ''P" of the boundary, the last point located by Messrs. Craig and Baldwin in 1910, the work was carried by August 6 to station "Y," in latitude 69° 20', on the last high ridge overlooking the Arctic Ocean. Nine points on the meridian were determined and marked; eight of these connected with the triangulation and a total distance of over 120 miles covered. · On August 7 a reconnoissance was made to the northward of the sumnnt of the range. Topogra,phy.-W. C. Guerin and F. S. Ryus, topographers in charge. Topography was carried on by two parties; one under Mr. W. C. Guerin started on the north bank of the Porcupine and completed a topographic belt at least 4 miles wide for a distance of 99 ri:iiles; the other, under Mr. F. S. Ryus, started on the south bank and connected up with the finished topography of the season before. Mr. Ryus then moved north, through 1\fr. Guerin's work, and com})leted an additional 1t field sheets before the close of the season. It took him 26 days of travel from his most southerly point to reach tho point at which he re-commenced work. The method emfloyed was the same as in previous season: Horizontal and vertica control, furnished by field computation of triangulation supplemented by plane-table triangulation from intersections with elevations computed from vertical an~lesi.. traverse by stadia, and pacing. The instruments used were tne Johnson head plane tables with 18 by 24 inch board and Bausch & Lomb special alidades. The field scale is 1/45,000; contour interval, 100 feet; datum, mean sea level carried from the line of precise levels run to a point on the boundary, from Skagway. A timber sheet was kept by each torographer and the growth classified for species and density for the benefit of the ~orest Service. Vista cutting, monumenting, and stadia.-This duty was assigned to two Canadian parties; one under Mr. Frederick Lambart, working north from Rampart House, and the other, under Mr. A.G. Stewart, taking up the work where left in 1910. In addition to these parties, there were two launches, poling boats, and the usual supply trains. Winter party.-W. B. Reaburn, surveyor in charge; Gilbert T. Smith, surgeon. Mr. W. B. Reaburn was left in charge of the party to winter at Rampart House. The duty of the party was to arrange caches convenient to the boundary trail, to assemble provieions and forage now on tho Old Crow River, to maintain a quar-

94

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

antine, and to be on the ground in the early spring, so that no time might be lost in B:ctting to work. The launch Midnight Sun was put into winter quarters at Rampart House and was available as soon as the ice left the river. Dr. Smith was requested by tho Canadian Government to act as quarantine officer and to look after the welfare of the Indians. Ho was empowered to authorize any expenditure considered necessary to control tho sm11llpox situ11tion. Two male nurses and a member of the Northwest Mounted Police were on the ground to assist him. Mr. Reaburn and Dr. Smith were instructed by the chief of party to maintain a quarantine on the Alaskan side and to prevent, by force if necessary, any person from going down the Porcupine and into Alaska without a two weeks' detention for observation. For the benefit of the mail carriers, a cabin was rented at Fort Yukon and equipped with everything necessary, so that none of the party need enter any house m Fort Yukon. Three horses and 10 ~ogs were with the party, to be used by the freighters and mail earners. The chief of party expresses his appreciation of the energetic way in which the chiefs of the various subparties carried on the work intrusted to them. The favorable weather during the summer enabled them to locate tho line and complete the topography to within easy reach of the Arctic Ocean. Work was resumed in tho latter part of May, Hl12, on the topography in the vicinity of the Rampnrt House, and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year. Details and statistics for the work of this season arc not yet available.
DETAILS OF OFFICE OPERATIONS.

The Assistant in Charge has direct supervision of the work of the divisions of the office. The Miscellaneous Section and the Tidal Research Section form parts of his immediate office.
COJ\IPUTING DIVISION.

The reduction of field observations and the preparation of results for publication; the preparation of data for field parties of the Survey and replies to requests for information from Government departments, civil engineers, and others outside the Survey, occupied the major portion of the timo of this division. The use of the photostat for copying documents and records reduced greatly the amount of clerical work required in the division and at the same time made it possible to furnish data more promptly and economically. The computation and reduction of the triangulation in the United States and along the international boundaries mado excellent progress. A revised and enlarged edition of the manual on the <Ietermination of timc1 longitude, latitude, and azimuth was prepared. A revised edit10n of tho tables and factors for the computation of geodetic positions was also prepared and published. T~e adjustment of the precise level net in the United States was contmued, .

RBPORT OF SUPEUIN'.l'ENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

95

Progress was mudo in changing the book triangulation registers to vertical file registers. The effective force of the Computing Division averaged 17.4 persons. For the more rapid publication of the results of the work an increase in the force of computers is recommended. A report on the ''Investigation of the Effect of Topowaphy and Isostatw Com1lensation on the Intensity of Gravity' was prep,ared and published. The manuscript for a second paper on the 'Effect of Topo9raphy and Isostatic Compensation upon the Intensity of Gravity' was prepared and sent to the printer. A report on Geodetic Operations in the United States, 190fl-1912, to be presented to the Seventeenth General Conference of the International Geodetic Association, was prepared. Besides the foregoing, five publications giving results of triangulation in the United States were publislrnd.
DIVISION OF TERRESTIUAL MAGNETISM.

Tho demand for information concerning terrcstrittl magnetism continues to increase. The results of field observations on land and at sea in the United States and outlying territory, for the fiscal year 1911, were prepared and submitted for publication as Appendix No. 3 to the Annual H,eport for llHl. Reports were prepared for publication on the results of observations at tho magnetic observatories in Porto Rico, 1907-8 and 1909-10; Cheltenham, Md., 190fl-10; Honolulu, 1909-10· and on the distribution of the magnetic declination in tho United States for Junuary 1, 1910, and tho proof of these and other publications was read. Tho office revision of field work was kept up to date, tho reduction of observatory results continued, and certam records prepared for binding. Reduction tables for the equa1'ion of equnl altitudes and forms for the determination of time by the method of equal altitudes of tho sun were prepared. Tabulations were pre:pared of data pertaining to earthquakes recorded at the magnetlC observatories and copies made for tho International Seismological Association. Similar information obtainod at tho Honolulu observatory was furnished to Prof. John Milne, secretary of the seismological committee of the British usso.ciation. Values of the magnetic elements at tho time of tho solar eclipse of April 28, 1911, were computed and furnished to the Journal of Terrestrial Magnetism. A corrected formula for computing the scale value of a declinati.on variomet.er was determined. Copies of magnetograms from the five observatories during 21 days in March were furmshcd to Dr. Bidlingmaier at vVilhelmshaven, Germany. Other data was sent to Dr. Kr. Birkland1 of Christiania, Norway. Other requests for data from the magnetic observatories have been promptly complied with as heretofore.
TIDAL DIVISION.

The report of the Chief of the Tidal Division contains the usual detailed mformation in regard to the work done during tho year; the tidal observati.ons received from field parties and from foreign

96

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

sources; and the information and data furnished to field parties, to the Drawing and Engraving Division, and to the public. The Tide Tables for 1913 were completed; Harmonic Analyses were completed for two stations with a combined length of two years, and summations were made for an analysis of three other stations of one year each; nonharmonic reductions were made for 95 stations with a combined length of nearly 16 years; mean tide level was computed for five stations with a combined length of five years; high and low waters and hourly heights of the sea were tabulated for 272 stations with a combined length of 70! years; 340 volumes of soundings were reduced, involving the computation of the plane of reference for 290 stations, and the entering of many thousand tide reducers. There were received, examIDed, registered, and indexed, tidal records from 43 stations in the eastern division, six stations in the middle division, five stations in the western division, 21 stations in the Alaska division, and 20 stations from outlying territories, such as the Philippine Islands etc. In addition to the observations regularly made by the Survey, tide observations have been received from the Alaska boundary survey, .the Hawaiian Government survey, the Government of the PhilipJ>ine Islands, the Corps of Engineers of the Army, the HydrogrlljJJ1ic Office of the Navy Department, the Government of New South Wales, and the Government of Cuba. Tidal information has been furnished to the Imperial Hydrographic Office at Wilhelmshaven, Germany, ID return for which their predictions for Apia and Hamburg have been sent. The Hydrographic Office at Wilhelmshaven was also furnished with · sample forms used in tidal work. Copies of tidal predictions for Wellington and Auckland were furnished to the Secretary of the Marine Department at Wellington, New Zealand.
CHART CONSTRUCTION DIVISION.

During the year sutisfoctory progress was mude ID the preparation of a series of 18 new charts on the .Mercator projection, oriented with the meridian, with a single defth unit, for the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, and in the correction o the existing charts. In engraving new charts on copper the practice has been adopted of dividmg each chart into several plates, which permits more rapid work, as several engravers can thus work on the same chart simultaneously. An increased number of charts was published by lithography, and the complete substitution of metal lithographic plates for stone during the past four months has increased the rapidity of production. Addit10nal accommodations are needed for lithographic plant. Experiments were made with an etching process to place a drawIDg or printed chart directly on a lithographic metal plate. A pf10tostat installed in the photographic section turned out a large number of satisfactory copies of records for the different divisions of the office. In the Electrotype Section certain chart plates were cut and ;reassembled so as to orient tho charts, and some experimental work

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

97

was done in connection with local electro deposits to avoid either bumping-up or the making of a new basso for a new printing plate. Electrical installation and r<>pair work in the buildings was attended to. The statist.ies of work during tlw year aro as follows:
CHAHT PH EPA HA TIO?ll.

Schc1~cs approved by the o_ffice for new chartR ............................ . Drawmgs for new cha.rtB fimshed ........................................ . Drawings for new charts in hand ......................................... . N cw drawings for new editions finished .................................. . New drawings for new editions in hand ................................... . Extensive corrections finished ........................................... . Extensive corrections in hand ............................................ . New chart drawings received from Manila, finished ....................... . N cw chart drawings received from Manila, in hand ........................ . N cw chart drawings received from Manila, for new editions finished ........ . Various miscellaneous drawings and tracings were also made.
ENGRAVING.

23 24 20
4 1

133
17 10 1 6

New plates for new chartB, finished ....................................... . New plates for new charts, in hand ................................·...... New plates for new chal'Ul etched, finished ............................... . New plates for former lithograph charts, finished ......................... . New plates for former lithograr.h charts, in ham!... ·: ...................... . N cw etched plates for former lithograph charts, fun shed .................. . New etched plates for former J.ithograph chartR, in hand .................... . New bassos finished for new editions ...................................... . New bassos in hand for new editions ..................................... . New bassos for reissues, finished ......................................... . New bassos for reissues, in hand .......................................... . N cw editions, using current plate, finished ............................... . Extensive corrections applied to plates ................................... . Ex tcnsi ve corrections in hand ............................................ . Miscella.neous plates engraved or corrected ............................... . Minor corrections applied to plates ....................................... . Two charts arc on hand for which the.engraving has not been started.
PRINTING.

3 12 1

3
3
1()

2

27 13
1

5 25

207
3 23
1,448

New charts printed from copper plate .................................... . 1 New charts printed by transfer from copper plates ........................ . 3 28 New charts printed by photolithography .................................. . 47 New edition of charts printed from copper plates ......................... . 18 New edition of charts printed by transfer from copper plates .............. . 42 New edition of charts printed by photolithogra.phy ........................ . 94 New prints from stones (number of different charts) ....................... . . 906 N~~w prints from plat~s (numb~r of diffor~nt charts) ........................ . 4 M!scellancoua photoh t.hograp!nc pu bhcat10ns .............................. . 4 M1Hcellaneoua engraved pubheations ...................................... . === Charts printed and delivered, from stones ................................. . 56,473 Charts printed and delivered, from plates ................................ . 80,335 4,833 Miscellaneous printed and delivered, from storlPH ......................... . 120 Miscclla.neouti printed and delivered, from plu.t l'~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Total. ............................................................ 141, 761 Number of !mpress!ons from ston<·s (all work.) ............................. 132, 670 Number of mipreBB1ons from plates (u.11 work).............................. 90, <i29 Total ....... .
67901°-1:~-·-7

223,299

98

REPORT 01" SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
PHOTOG HAl'llI1'0.

Glass negatives made .................................................... .

f~l~~~[.j~~;
Pounds of copper

I, 202

Photostat prints made ................................................... . Lantern slides made .................................................... . Matrices made ......................................................... . Prints mounted ......................................................... . Negatives developed .................................................... . Copper plates etched .................................................... . Photolithographic negatin·H, number of charts ............................ .
~:l.ECTHOTYPINO.

/

40
I, 579 199

40G
2,979

I, 047
17

96 115 42
11 91

A hos completed..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bassos completed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total.............................................................
depo~itcd .............................................

69 46
115

.

4,202

CIIAltT DIVISION".

In this division tho usual work was continued relating to the general issue of charts, Coast Pilots, and Tide Tabios to tho public, to the Navy and other departmentK; the large correspondence relating thereto and keeping the accounts of 164 agencies; the hand correction of charts, and the coloring of lights and buoys on charts. The total issue of charts during the year was 144,425, an increase of 18 ,000 over tho previous year. The Chart Division also issued during the year :3,792 volumes of the Coast Pilot, 1,881 copies of Atlantic Coast Tide 'rables, 10,603 copim; of Pacific Coast Tide Tables, and 1,205 Complete Tido Tables. The re~ular force of this division' is too small to keep up the work and detmls of clerks and draftsmen from other divisions have been mude from time to time to meet the deficiency. During the :ycnr charts wero received from the Drawing and Engraving Division us follows: Prints from plates, 80,335; prints from stone, 56,473. In addition there were received 11,361 copies of Maryland oyster charts, printed by contract, and 150 copies of a special chart of Controller Bay, Alaska. Charts were issued us follows:
Sales agen tB ............................................................ . Sales hy Office and Chart Divi"ion ...................................... . Bureau LighthouseH .................................................. . Coast and Geodetic 8urH·v Oili«P ....................................... . Suboflice, Manila, P. J .. .' .....·............................·........·.·· Executive department..; ................................................. . Foreign Government!! ................................................... . Miscellaneous ........._...... . .......................................... .
54, 367

go;g~;~o11~~ aofi?c~;~·.·.·.·.·_·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

2,470 3,G2fi

oC

4J,214 3,806 6,805 11, Hl4 6,043

753
]. 05!l

Total.. ........................................................... l:ll, 3:~7 Condemned ....................... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12, 7811Total is.~ued and condemned ..................................... ~.. 144, 420

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY,

99

The following Coast Pilots were issued during tho year:
Part I-II... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Part I II. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Part IV......................... Part V.......................... Part VI......................... Part VI I. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

453 489 584
380 367 363

Part VIII.. ..................... . Porto Rico .................... . California. Oregon am! Washington. Alaska, Part I. .................. .

250 48
506

352

Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3, 792

The following Tide Tables were issued during the year:
Atlantic coast: 1909 ......... .
1910 ......... . 1911 ......... . 1913 ......... .

Pacific coast:
2 3

Complete: 12

52
30

1912 ......... . 1,803 Total... . . . . . 1, 887

183 1912 ........ . 10,404 1913 ........ . 4

1901-1910 ... . 1911. ....... .

1909 ........... .
1910 ........... . 1911 ........... . l!ll2 ........... .

mos ........... .

1

2 3 113 918
168

Total....... 10, GO:{

1913 ........... .

Total.. . . . . . . . . 1, 205

Charts were issued at tho suboffice, Manila P.1., as follows:
Sales agents................ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 981 Sales at suboffice ........................................................... 1, 723 Anny..................................................................... 832 HydrograJ;>hic Oflice (Navy) ............................................... 1, 076 Suhoffice m Manila an<l veS!lCIB of the Survey ........... __ ....... _____ ... __ .. 445 Executive departments, Philippine Islands .... _.. _._ ..... __ .... __ .. _..... _.. 1, 561 Miscellaneous ........ __ ._ ..... ___ .......... _................... __ ......... _ 234 Total. ..... _. _......... __ . ____ ............. __ ............... _. _. . . . . 6, 852
INSTRUMENT
DIVISIO~.

The report of the Chief of the Instrument Division shows in detail the work accomplished in the instrument and carpenter shors, and in his office, and gives the usual statistical information relative thereto. The dismembering, polishing, lacquering, plating, fine finishing, and reassembling of the Coast and Geodetic Survey's tide predicting machine No. 2 did not progress us rapidly us was expected owin/L to the unforeseen demands upon tho employees for other work. The machine is, however, practically completed and ready to mount in a sr.eciullyfrepared room in the Tidal Division. 1he chie of this division, in addition to his re~ulur office duties, was frequently called upon for other services, such us the standardization of the German half-second pendulum appn.rutus, belonging to tho Mexican Government; superintending the removal and remountinO' of the float pipe of the electricn.l tide indicator in the offices of the New York docks and ferries depnrtment; improving the electrical tide indicator of tho Seaman's Friend Society's Institute; fitting out of eight lightships with current poles, suitn.ble for both day and nigkt observations; and inspecting at St. Pnul, Minn., 67 castiron monuments for boundary between the United States and Canada and arranging for their shipment to their respective destinations. The Instrument Division, heretofore, has attended to keeping the accounts and inventories of the various kinds of property used in the field and office, to which havo boen added during tho year the furniture and general office inventories.

100

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES.

The report of the Chief of the Library und Archives Division contains the usual statistical information rn regard to the collection of books, maps, periodicals, and charts, and the receipt of original topographic and hydrogro.phic sheets, photographs, and field records of every description. Three thousand books and pamphlets an<l 100 maps no longer needed in this bureau were listed, and the Librarian of Congress selected from the list such as were of value to his library; a list of useless field and office records was prepared for tho Department with a view to condemnation by Congress.
ACCESSIONS.
=c-~~-~==-=~~----" ---~~="=c-. -·"o-·~~~---~=o·.

___________

'.~'·~s~fi~U-o~~- __

_ ___

I'_'u_r~l1~~ ! Donated.
111
:io

=-

==-=========
Exch1mgod.
f>0-1 l,498

Total.
002 1,528

Bool<s11ndpamphlcts________________ --------1 Maps and cha~~=~:~~---_- ____ -_-_- ~---

I
1-

ISi

The following is

11

list of the original records received:

Huhj1·cL,_

!\'ohnncs./

-A-st-ro-n-01_n_y_:- - - - - - - - - ----------- - ----- - - - - . - - -

Hyp6b~~~fiions, original.. __ .... ___ . ________ - -- . -... - - -- - - -- - -

__ .____ ..... _. _ ... ___ .. _. __ ._. _ ... _. 154 ~~:!.;::::: :: :::::: :: ::::::::: ::::: :::::::::::::::: :::::j· --.. 18 Gravity: . &b:~~~Y:;,o~~n_n_1::::::: ::: ::::::::::: ::: ::: :::::::: ::: {
Geodesy:
&1':~~~l~~~s~iginal..

&1':;~~~?~~s,0~~1:r.a.L:::::::: ::::: :::: :::: :::::::::::::::/_ _ I

---i---i---"' ~ c:::::::: ________ .~
:n

Cuhiors. / Sheets. ,

~:~~~~-

:is .... ___ ·- _-· ...... __
33

~
J

;: ::::::::: ::: ::: :: ::
::::::: ::

Jf?.T

~~].lI.

Magg~~;~atlons, original..._. _______ .. _-· ... _........... - ·- .. J. -.-.....

C<>mi~!~~~~~:: :: :: :: :::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::: :: :1:::::::: '.:ii

22

~

3 - --.. -·. -

310 . ·-. -- - -- - --... -.. - -

r: : : :

.J.- -...... .

I

/=J.~1~t~ ~

:1 ,; >I> .

TIDAL RESEARCH SECTION.

The compilation of matter relating to the tides from published (French and German) sources was continued at intervals th.roughout the year. · Curren~ tables, diagrams, and predictions were prepared for use in the Coast Pilots and on the charts, und current observations received

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

101

from observers in special localities were tabulated, reduced, 1md analyzed. A current chart, Cape Ann to Point Judith, with description, was prepared for the Atlantic Coast Pilot, Part III. A bnef description of the Gulf Stream was prepared. Notes on physical hydrographic and occanogruphic worK with special reference to the Carribean Sea were nearly completed. A revision of the tidal and current reductions for N cwark Bay and adjacent waters wus commenced. Studies were mude of the tides, currents, temperatures, winds, density of water, etc., in particular localities. Attention was given to various guestions bearing on the tidal theory, and information was furnished in reply to a number of request.a concerning tides, currents, und related subJects.
MISCELLANEOUS SECTION.

This section attends to the ordering and distribution of supplies and the keeping of the accounts rel a ting thereto; the making of requisitions for printing and binding; the issue of stntionery to field parties and office divisions; the auditing of accounts payable from the appropriation for "Office expenses;" the correspondence pertaining to the above, and various miscellaneous duties. On March 11, 1912, the press copying of all correspondence, excepting orders for purchase, was discontmued 1111d carbon copies substituted. Purchase orders for 1913 will be c11rbon copied. Since March 11, 1912, all correspondence pm'taining to the work of the Miscellaneous Section has been filed therein. A new set of forms for requisitions, orders, and registers, relating to accounts, was prepared and approved by the Comptroller of the Treasury and by tiie President s Commission on Economy and Efficiency. The filing and indexing systems relating to purchase requisitions have been revised. Respectfully submitted. 0. H. TITTMANN, Su perirdenderd. To Hon. CHARLES NAGEL, Secretary of Commerce and Labor.

Blank page retained for pagination

INDEX.
Page. A.tlums, l·'. L., magnetic observer ..... . Alabama, mai,'Iletlc observations ..... . rcconnolssancc ........................... .
48

Pnge.

as

20 .\lnska, general surveys .... ..... 48, 50, 51, 5:J, 55, 5fi hydroi,"Tnphy .................. 48,50,51,53,55,Sti

longitude determination. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . magnetic observations.....................

78 48

topography ..... -.. - .... - ...... 48,50, 51,53,55,56

triangulation .................. 4R, 50, 51, 53, 55, 56 Aluska boundary ............................ 8,89 Aluska Poninsula............................ 53 Appropriations and disbursements.......... 17 Arkansas, magnetic observations............ 38 rcconnolssunco.. ... . . . . .. . .. ... . . . . .. . . . .. 20 Arkansas, U.S. S ........................... TJ, 74 Arizona, magnotlc observations.............. 46 Armerla, Lighthouse steamer................ 57 Assistant In Charge of Otnce.......... !J4 Dach, Jolm ................. :................ li2 Bache, steamer.... .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 3·i Baltlwin, Asn, surveyor .................. 89, 92, 93 Barnard, E. C., Chief Topographer.......... 81 Barry, steamer. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 Daso lines................................... 85 Bnsilan Struits, P. I........... . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 Baylor, J. D., assistant...................... 83 Denton, J. R., magnetic observer............ 20 Dltllingmacr, Dr............................. 95 Dilby,J. 8 .................................. 20,39 Dlllran, l'. I................................ 62 Dirklnnd, Dr. Kr............................ 95 Dountlarics. See Alaska boundary and United States and Cnnn<in boundary. Boutelle, J. Jl., assi·tnnt.. .................. '. 2:l Bowle, William, assistant................... 24 Brabazon, A. J.............................. 87 Drndbury, Jlion............................. 47 Burbank, J. E., magnet.le obscn·er........ 25 Bureau of Lighthouses...................... 76 Cade, C. M., assistant ..................... ·.· 25 Cairncs, D. D.......... .... .. ............ ... Ul California, gravity........................... 45 hydrogrnphy.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 roconnoissnnce.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 subofllco, San Francisco.................... 46 Callmancs Islands, J'. I...................... 0.5 Canal Zono.. ........... .... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ii Chnrt Construction Division...... Vti Chart Division........................ 08 Ch11rt preparation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . U7 Chart printing............................... U7 Oh11rts.... .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00, 98 Chesapeake Bay, hydrogmphy.............. 23 Chiputnetlcook Lake.. . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 C'-0ust Pilots .............................. 32, 71,99

C-Olllert, Leo 0., assistant.............. G8 C-Olorado, roconnoissancc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 r.,-0mputing Division........................ 94 r-0nnecticut, hydrogrnphy................... 32 Inspection of chart agondcs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 revision of surveys... . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . 41 Cook Inlet, Alaska .......................... 50,51 Copper Center, Alaska ....................... 78, 79 Crulgblll, C-01. W. E., U.S. Engineers....... 47 Crcstn do Gallo, P. I............. . . .. .. .. .. . . G4 Current o\Jservations .................. 28,29,67, 76 Cuyos Islunds, P. I. ...................... 65,00,67 D1mgcrs to na\·igation....................... 8 Delawuro, hydrography........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Delaware River............................. 30 Denson, H. C., assistant..................... 59 Derickson, R. D., assistnnt. .............. 20, 39, 48 Details of field operations... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. :.!O Details of ofllce operations .......... :........ 94 Dickins, E. F., assistant.................... 29 Dlsuursing Agent........................... 17 District of Columbia ......................... J.;, i5 Division of 'forrestriul Mngnet ism........... OS lfaglo Ilurbor, Wush.... ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Euton, D. W.,surveyor ..................... 811,92 Economy und elllciency..................... 19 Electrotyping. . . . .. . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 Elizabeth River............................. 24 Endeavor, steamer.......................... 23 Engle, F. G., assistant...................... GI Engraving.................................. 97 Explorer, steamer ........................ 20, 3Y, 55 Fairfield, W. B.,nsslst.ant. .................. 73,84 Faris, H. L., assistant.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 Futhomer, steBmer.......................... 65 FerguS-On, 0. W ., assistant.................. 29 Fischer, E.G......... ..... ... ... 30 Florida, hydrography ....................... 32,34 topography... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 35 triUllb'tllation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Forney, Stehmnn, nsslstunt................. ;JO Fort Slocum, D1wids Island, N. Y.......... 75 French, 0. n., ussistnnt. ................. 74, 75,85 Frisby, E. R... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. 62 Gnnrden, Oscar II., ffil\b'DCtic observer .... 31, 69, iO Gaithersburg, Md., latitude observatory..... 79 Gauger, John C., nssistBnt. ............... 31, 44, 70 Gedney, steamer.... . . . . . . . .......... 26, 48 General statements of progress. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Geographic names, Philippine Islands....... 59 Georgia, hydrography..... . ......... 32, 34 magnetic observations............... . ... 31, 34 Gilmore, Willlnm B.,surveyor ........... 91,92,93

103

104

INDEX.
Page. 75 32 39 14 25

Page. Grand Lake ·................................ 87,88 Granger, F. D., assistant.................... 85 Graves, H. C................................ 32 Gravity..................................... 45 Green,J. W.,magneticobserver............. 70 Guerin, W. C., topographer................. 93 Harbor Lines Commission, Philippine Islands 59 Hardy, F. H., assistant ..................... 50,52 Hartnell, George, magnetic observer ........ 25, 70 Hawaiian Islands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 Heck, N. H., assistant ...................... 32, 71 Hill, J. S., assistant......................... 39 Hill, Wallace M., magnetic observer ........ 34,63 Hodgkins, W. C., assistant.................. 34 Hodgson, C. V., assistant ................. 35, 43, 78 Hydrographer, steamer.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Hydrography............................... 5, 10 Alaska ·...··............... 48,50,51,53,54,55,56 California. · · . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . 37, 80 Canal Zone..... . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 71, 72 Delaware....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Florida.................................... 32,34 Georgia.. . .. · . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32, 34 Inland waterways . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 76 Maine ..................................... 32, 36 Maryland................................. 34 Massachusetts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 New York ......·......................... 31, 75 North Carolina ............................ 32,34 Pennsylvania............................. 34 Philippine Islands ............... 59,61,64,65,68 South Carolina .·.......................... 32, 34 Virginia .......................... 23,29,30,32,34 Washington ............................... 26,39 Illinois, gravity............................. 45 magnetic observations ..................... 20, 43 Imperial Hydrographic Office, Germany..... 96 Indiana, gravity............................. 45 magnetic observations..................... 20 Inland waterways........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 Inspector of Geodetic Work..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Inspector of Hydrography and Topography. 10 Inspector of Magnetic Work. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 15 Instrument Division..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99 International Association of Navigation Congresses....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42, 79 International boundaries.................... 7, 81 International Geodetic Association. . . . . . . · . . 79 International Seismological Association..... . 95 Iowa, gravity.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 magnetic observations..................... 43 Isthmian Canal Commission................ 72 .J"ones, E.T................................. 79 Kansas, magnetic observations.............. 36 Kasaan Bay, AJa.qka......... . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 48, 50 Kentucky, magnetic observations ........... 20,43 King, Harold D. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Kuskokwlm Bay, Alaska.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55, 56 .La France, steamer.......................... 91 Lake of the Woods .......................... 84,86 Lambart, Frederick......................... 93 Lansing, steamer....... . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 Latham, E. B., assistant.................... 36 Latitude observations....................... 42 Leone.rd and Anderson Rocks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

Leveling, District of Columbia...... . . . . . . . . . Maine ........................ ;............ Nevada.................................... Oklahoma to California.................... Texas and New Mexico.................... United States and Canada boundary. . . . ..

81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87

Virginia................................... 29 Utah...................................... 39 Library and archives.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 Longitude ................................... 43, 78 Los Angeles Harbor, Cal..................... 37 Luce, R. F., assistant ......... ,............. 64 McArthur, J. J...... .... .. . .. . .. . .... ... .. .. 85 McArthur, Capt. J. L....... .. . .. . ...... ..... 75 McArthur, steamer .......................... 51, 78 McComb, H. E., magnetic observer.......... 36 McGrath, J.E., assistant .................... 37,87 Mackie, Frank H..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89 Maddrlll, S. D., observer.................... 79 Magnetic observations .................... 15, 16, 17 Alabama.................................. 38 Alaska.................................... 48 Cuba ..................................... . Florida................................... . Georgia.................................... Hawaii .............·....................... Illinois ............ , ....................... Indiana................................... Iowa ......... :............................ Kansas.................................... Kentucky... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Maryland................................. Mhmesota.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . Mississippi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nebraska.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nor th Carolina. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . North Dakota............................. Ohio...................................... Oklahoma.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phflippine Islands..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Porto Rico. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . South Carolina............................ South Dakota............................. Tennessee. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Texas ..................................... Virginia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Washington... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . West Virginia............................. Magnetic observatories, Cheltenham, Md..... Honolulu, Hawaii.... . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sitka, Alaska....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tucson, Ariz.............................. Vleques, P.R............................. Maine, chart revision ...... :................. hydrography .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inspection of chart agencies................ speed trial course, Rockland . . . . . . . ..... . . triangulation.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . Manila office........... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marluduque, steamer........................ Marine Department, Now Zealand........... Maryland, hydrography .................. , . . magnetic observations..................... trlangula ti on. . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

t~:~~::: :: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

46

38
70 70

31,34
70

20,43 20
43

36
20, 43

25

43 38
36

34, 38 43 20 36 63 69, 70 31 43 38
36,38

38 28 20 25
70

48 46
69

36
32

37 74 46
69

68 96 34
25

46

INDEX.
Page. Hasbate, P. I ............................ 62,64,65 Massachusetts, chart revision................ 36 hydrography....... .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . 36 inspection of chart agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 topography .. .. .. .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. . .. . .. .. .. 36 triangulation.............................. 36 Matchless, schooner.......................... 29 Mattaponi River, Va ........................ 29,30 Meekins, Theodore G........................ 80 Michigan, gravity........................... 45 Miller, E. Vance, nautlcal expert............ 71 Miller, J.B., assistant....................... 65 Milne, John................................. 95 Mindanao, P. !. ............................. 60,67 Mindoro, P. I............................... 66 Hinnesota, gravity ............ "·....... . . . . . 45 magnetic observations... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 Miscellaneous Section.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 liUssissippi, magnetic observations........... 38 reconnoissance .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. . .. . . 20 Mississippi River Commission. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43, 79 Montauk Point, N. Y.............. ....... .. . 31 Monument Stream ........................... 87, 88 Morse, Fremont, assistant ................ 37, 46, 89 Mosman, A. 'I'., assistant... .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 37 Mount Natazhat, Alaska..................... 89 Mount St. Elias, Alaska..................... 89 Mud Lake................................... 87 Mueller, E., assistant ........................ 65, 67 Nagel, Charles, Secretary of Commerce and Labor................................. 101 Nautilu.· Shoal.............................. 23 Nebraska, magnetic observations............ 36 Negros, P. I................................. 60 Nelles, D. H ................................. 91, 93 Neumann, Frank, magnetic observer........ 38 Nevada, gravity............................. 45 leveling....... .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . 39 reconnaissance..... . .. .. . . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. . . . 20 New Jersey, topography..................... 30 triangulation . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 30 New Mexico, inspection work................ 24 leveling.................................... 25 longitude determinations.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 New York, gravity.......................... 45 hydrography .............................. 31, 32 Inspection of chart agencies........ . . . . . . . . 37 inspection duty . .. .. . . . .. .. . . .. . .. . . .. . . . . 29 revj.sion of surveys..... .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . 41 tidal indicators .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. 30 triangulation .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. 31, 44 Maritime Exchange........ .. .. .. . .. . .. . .. . 29 · North Carolina, fishing grounds.............. 79 ' hydrography .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. 32, 34 magnetic observations ..................... 34, 38 triangulation .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. 41 North Dakota, inspection work... . . . . . . . . . . . 24 magnetic observations..................... 43 triangulation..... .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . 38 ()filce work. . .. .. . . .. . .. . . . . . .. .. .. . .. . . . . . . Ohio, magnetic observations .... :............ Oklahoma, magnetic observations........... Oregon, gravity.............................. longitude determinations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Outlying territory.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 20
36

105

Page. Pagonhart, E. H., assistant .................. 38, 14 Palawan, P. I. .................. , ........... 62,65 PamunkeyRiver, Va ............... , ........ ~30 Panay, P. I................... .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. 65, 66· Parker, W. E., assistant ..................... 53, 76 Pathfinder, steamer......................... 49 Patterson, steamer........................... 53, 72 Patton, R. M., assistant .... _................ 28, 39 Pennsylvania, hydrography................. 34 topography .................'. .... :. .. . .. .. 30 triangulation .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. !lO Personnel.. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. · .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. . .. . 19 Peters, John H., assistant.................... 39' Philippine Islands.;......................... 58 general surveys ............... 59,61,64,65,67,68 hydrography .................... 59,61,64,65,68 topography ...................... 59,61,64,65,68 triangulation ................. 59,61,64,65,67,68 Phillips, John A., Jr., magnetic observer..... 98 Photographic zenith tube................... 79 Photographing .................. , .. .. . .. . . . . 98 Pigeon River....... . .. . . . . . .. . .. .. . . . . . .. .. . 84 Poplar River................................ 88 Porcupine River............................ 92 Port Harford, Cal. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Portland Canal .............................. 89, 90 Porto Rico..... . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. .. .. . . 69 Pratt, J. F., assistant ·· .-..................... 41, 78 Prince William Sound, Alaska.............. 56 Publlcatlons or the Coast and Geodetic Survey................................ 18 Quillian, C. G., assistant. ................... 51, 78 Kagay Gulf.................................. 68 Rainy River. · . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . 86 Rannie, R. L........... .... ............ .... 83 Reaburn, w. B., surveyor............. 91,92,93,94 Reconnolssance. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Alabama.................................. llO Alaska boundary.. . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . 89, 92 Arkansas:................................. 20 California:. · . · · . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . ·20 Colorado.................................. 20 Hawaiian Islands......................... 70 Mississippi................................ llO Nevada................................... 20 Philippine Islands.. . .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 61, 65, 67 Tennessee. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . llO United States and Canada boundary .... 85,87,88 Utah...................................... 20 Wyoming ................................. 20,35. Records. . · .. . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . 100 Research, steamer... . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 Revision of surveys, Connecticut............ 41 New York................................. 41 Rhode Island, inspection of chart agencies... .37 triangulation · · . .. .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 44 Rhodes, H. W., assistant .................... 55, 72 Riggs, 'rhos., Jr., surveyor.. . . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . . 00, 92 Ritter, H.P., asSl.stant ...................... 41,79 Romblon, P. I .............................. 65,66 64 Romblon; steamer........................... Ross, F. E., observer........................ 79 Rude, Gilbert T., assistant ·. .'............... 66 Ryus, F. S., topographer .................... 91,93

45 43 58

106
St. Crolx River ......................... ..

INDEX.
Page. !
P~e.

St. Francis River .......................... . Samar, P. I................................. San Luis Obispo Day, Cal.................. Short Crook. . . . . .. .. . . .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . Slbuyan, P. I...................... G4,65 Sinclair, C. H., llSSistBn t. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. 82, 88 SmaUpox... .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. . . . .. . Ill Smith, Edwin, assistant .................. 42, 43, 78 Smith, Gilbert 1'., surgeon .................. 03, 94 Sobleralski, A. M., assist.ant................. 44 South Carolina, hydrography ................ 32, 34 lll8gt1etic observations..................... 31 South Dakota, magnetic observations. . . . . . . 43 Sowers, Don C., magnetic observer. . . . . . . . . . 43 Special duty. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 73 Special surveys.. . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 8 Speed trial courses, Port Townsend Day, 78 Wash ................................ . Rockland, Me ............................ . i4 Stelmagle, W. M., as.'istant ................. 44, 79 Stewart, A.G............................... 93 Subterranean River, Palawan Island, P. I.. 62 Sumner Strait, Alaska ...................... . ·18 Tabla.q, P. I ................................ 6.'i,00 Table of distances, Philippine Islands....... 59 Taku,steamer........... ,................... 66 Tall of tho Horseshoe Shoal. . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . . 24 Tenncssoo, magnctio observations. . . . . . . . . . . 38 rooonnolssancc..... . .. . . . .. .. . . .. .. . .. .. . . . 20 Texas, latitude observations................. 42 lovoiing.............. .... . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . 25 longitude dorormlnatlons.................. 43 magnetic observations ..................... 36, 38 triangulation....... . .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . . .. .. . 44, 46 Tidal Division............................... 95 Tidal Research Section...................... JOO Tl do indicators.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Tide obscn·ation~........................... 6, 2ll Alnska .............................. 4S,5l,53,55 CBlilomi11.. . . . .. .. . .. .. .. . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. . 46 Canal Zone ................................ 71, 72 Dolawaro ...... _........................... 34 Florida.................................... 34 Maine..................................... 32 Maryland................................. 34 NowYork................................. 31 Philippine Islands···............. 59, 61, &I, 66, 68 Virginia. .. . .. . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23, 29, 30, 34 Washington............................... 26 Tide Tables................................. 99 Tlttmann, O. II., Superintendent .......... 8L.101 Tongns~ Narrows, Alaska.................... 48 Topography, A!a.qka...... . .... 48, 50, 51, 53, 55, 56 Alaska boundary ..................... 8, 89, oo, U3 California...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .. 37 Canal Zone ................................ 71, 72 Connecticut. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . 41 Delaware.................................. 30 Hawaiian hl!\nds. . . . . . .. . .. .. . .. . . .. .. . . . 6, 70 Maine...................................... 36 New Jersey................................ 30 Now York ................................ 41, 75 Pennsylvania............................. 30 Phillpplno Islands...·............ 59, 61, 64, 66, 68 United Statos and Canada boundary...... 7,

87 83 61 80 88

Topography, Virginia .................... 23,29,30 W asblngton.... . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . . .. . 26 Townshend, S. G., jr., magnetic observer.... 25 Triangulation, Alaska ........... 48,50,51,03,55,66 Alaska boundary ........................ 8,89,90 Call!omia... .... ....... .... .. . ... . .... . . . . 80 CaualZone ................................ 71,72 Delaware.. .. . .. . . .. .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Florida.................................... 34 Hawaiian Islands.......................... o, 70 Maino ............................... 32, 30, 40, 74 New Jersey................................ . 30 Now York .............................. 31,44, 76 North Carolina ........................ 13,41,80 North Dakota............................. 38 on one hundrod and fourth morldlan. . . . . . 13 Pennsylvania............................. 30 Philippine Islands .......... 58,59,61,&l,65,67,68 Rhode Island.............................. 44 Texas .................................. l:l.44,"6 United States and Canada boundary...... 7,
8, 83, 84, M, 8H, ~7, 88, 89

Virginia ............................. 2'3,2!1,30, 73 'Washington ............................ l:J.2ti.3H Yukon River.............................. 20 Trueblood, Paul M., BSSistant............. . . 44 Two Bush Channel, Mo... . . . . . . . . . . 73 Ukiah, Cal., latltudo obsorvatory ........... . 79 United States and Canada boundary ....... . 7,81 Utah, inspection work .................. . 24 leveling ......................... . 39 rcconnoissanoo ........................ . 20 Vann,C.S............................... .. 80 Variation of latitude......................... 6, 79 Vessels ...................................... 12, 19 Vessels and parties.......................... 10 Virginia, hydrograpby .............. 23, 29, 30, 32,34 magnetic observ11tions. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . .. .. . 38 triangulation .............................. 2.1, 73 Volcanic eruption, Mount Katmnl, Alaska ... 53,89 Wamcr,T. L.,nssistant ..................... 45,80 Washington, gravity........................ 45 hydrography .............................. 26,39 Inspection work ........................... 24, 41 topography................................ 26 triangulation .............................. 20,38 Washington Monument..................... 75 \Vced, Lloyd W., mab'Dolic o\)scrvor......... 46 Welker, P.A., a.~istant ..................... bil, 78 West Virginia, mngnetlc obl!ervutions. .... . . . 20 Westdahl, F., assistant...................... 46 Whltnoy, Paul C., a.~lstant................. 08 Wiliapa Day, Wash... .. . . . . . . .. .. .. . .. .. . .. 26 Winston, Isnnc, a.<;sfstnnt.................... 46 Wire drag ................................ 32, 71,80 Woodyard, Chn.s. F., magnotlc obscn·cr. .... 119 Wrangoll Strait, Alaska..................... 4R Wyoming, gravity........................... 45 rcconnolssanco .. . .. .. . . .. .. . .. . . .. . .. .. . .. 20 triangulation · . . . · . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 'l'ork River, Va ............................ . Yukon, steamer ............................ . Yukon River, Alaskn ...................... ..
29

50
20

8,81,82,83,84,87 ; Zenith tube ............................... ..

79

0

1

l

~ r~

-/.·ti

1· J

· ·~,,·r' I;.,

J&L2
.12Ge"

P LAT[ N o 2·03

PLAT~

No 2200

'

I

,.

l :.20.

un·

! HY'

\O fa·

1 00~

Of>"

uo·

oc.~

-+j-t_ _ ., -L_f----~,

I

~!L-+-!__

.

r---

'1-f-H-J-i~~+~J-- . _ _t-1!-N-i-1+-~-l' :;~ " -~i--t---t~T ~
I / /
]_

J JiAt 1·1"7)~1 l7<1tif/t-1~~+4m-f ru;I ·0 11" 11 i<~ sl o !'ion . - ' 1r!1· J,1 t1{1lf{f', /,1 1u1iA 11rle a11< '.
'[

bv the

[~

to ,lia1e

.JO. ~.<;/:_

S

,_l__,,, J \11 · · ' ' " 7di1\ 1 .

t

;r-- --

FlFf'I

"°'

,,,.

-,

7<1"

"''

r-----

,\,, »T

.

.N

0

N

f'

A.

_J" . ,
I

+-1+-1-

I---,--

.u

-,,.'f-;j-· _ _

1

IJ__ - -

~
I
't

I

y

4

-

I J\__'
'

'

,,

'

I I
'

<

LH

~

...-

1-\\

,,,

'

,
.

.

I

<" ~
I"

... ~

-=1 - . - ~.. L.

.

+-~~

<Jl--1 1---;

--

ft~
·

· <e11o 00

~- ._,Y_QJ'
/
,

-+--j-~
M
I
.

7·-·-I

___
r----t------1--

N

G

---1~J
.l
J I

1

L
I
' O··d

s

U Tl H

l'ic1 'l.'l>·

- +- l f :I I i . 4q-11°<
D A i<J 0 T '

I

· --I ·

~j__j_

~-t-u'-1.
~H""\isont \
-~ J - - -·

\I
~

I .1 Cr ttw"' I

- ·-'~ -I
-'+<-

·- ·- ·-·- ·
'-c

..

_,_,

-z_

I

J

j

\

+\--.I

l

+
Al
JJ0 11 ' M oihc s

.-+ -·

" "

'1 \-

~l---_J_ _ -1--1-~u+-\-,

' \·-·- ''

~~Chc,L,llll.iu::~

\

J

+

N

E

R'

A

Sl °"'K

-· ~---J ---L

""
L IO

Li.n ob.l.J: i.

-~ _.i _._
+

t j1
I

I

I'

I, \
0
/

I

'*'

I\
, 'f<
·-

+\
0

\I
I~
I

iO

tli

~o\u1unu"

...

-"<-

l ! /+""I- -0.1
D e:;qyer

Spri~1l1itl+-

:11.,.u·~""""r I

RI

A

6

I

I

I
.--:rK

'
A

'""
1 :..:-

+
<J'

>' I
~1

I

I

+
S
..,_

*~ t
S

I

l "' \

~

"
--v "' \
KEN

..,

j ·~L -

r::rc.

't_...

'

I'

\

N

I

~
0

+I ·
\T
U

\
t)....o·kf·l

i

i

T/1-+I
Sn.uu. F

\

--

+

I

f

=. I _ J
I

.

-~
i~ ullr-i ~

I I

v

-r
1>

+

°"'I~
-

+
C

I
l
.

i
.
l

/
- ·- ·- ·- ·- ·- - - - ·- - - ;
/

.

- ·- - ·- ·- ·- ·- -

.

~
I
-

·- ;_-1· -

_b:[_t-- _ - :t .- · .1--/-'~- · >- · ~ ·-trJ3 · (- · ·-·- ·- ·-·>- '1'
+

-1

~

'

.£.

,-

1'.-' ""' - "-

.

.·

'

.,._

. _, . ,_ .

,

4,,~,v a!
E

'S

t'

E
\.
I"

/ .~.~
/

I

.

l

'

-

--

T

E

N

N
I

S
~ I

1.

."""
0

z

· Alb u hufJ('f{ll c

N

Ni £

W

- -1
MI E

~lcri c o

.

<J'

0

X

A

R
;::

C IO

'""" _]_~ \·'-<: I ..._. » °"" . _ u . ,.,. . ..:f
I . I

"""

"/ .<>Y'""'"'~
""'" o

1l , ,,

r

'
'

~

...
I

I

115
-y

-

T--r-:,-+-----, f.-1 .

·- .......

~ ~. - .i+ _ t-t....

~'-....

I ~-J --'
T

·-·- .I

T
E

/---!

I -;~,,.~

- ""I
I

\
~·
,~o nl. Or}'

i;
0

.
s

<Jl

F oJt Wo rtll

I

I

*

I

I \ I
1'

0

"'\I

11._,. ...... I
\

<J'

t

\ .~
~

I
l

l

I

+ ' \-~ I -J
..,
\ t1

1___,,
. ·- · -

'</

x

\ ...-

A

----r-; .I I I
ll_
... I

I

I\ I 11 I
~

I I

I ~ 1

I

f

w

~.
'

\-

.Alia~

~

I

I?

...

-t"' '
/

0

·~

,._.
-4 TV
:.J

-J
.

\
-

I

\

1--

f.\ttf~i~
I~

lN

tl~I

/ _{~
.,/'·

I

vf,

l~ wl --- \ \
,.

I -+ I I I bLI._+----~--

V ,
r )r -----~ L

---·------y1
1-:i
I --(

-r,-.\ u

1 4'7""'.

· ..........

-f

--"
+---_)__-·-+----t-

F

[

...·

.

-1-~--1-----\---1

--

----J
z<r

c!-I
\
_ ,: :.\~~. \ . -:--c _.<:J, _ · -.'"":"::....-:A.·~-. -;
20·

1

U . S . Coast and Geodetic Survey
0 . H. Tittm ann . S uperintendent

~0

BASE MAP Of THE UNITED STATES
(Proj e cted o n intersect i ng c one )

.
--,____
-------1--

~~n f ~ · ·Ofcr t io11 ., + /,nfl,'/ifU < '
"/.<1li t 11d. ~

---'81,,r;,.1 ,IC -\----

--

.
'

·. ~

.... .... .

, . l t iu111th:

---f:.t~ L ~~!!1 i11~4!"

Sea.le I : 7 0 0 0000

0

-·oo
,..
~o

- - -· --

----I
Mur:i r o.

---1

--1-----

l~-eb

o
100 2 00

St.a.tute Mi les:
·00 2 00

·oo 800 -

--

..

-·--

--

'b<::J

.&o

,,.. ~

... o

K; lom e te,..
3 00 400

1--

&00

--·- · ·L. --- J ---'-

iw

HO'

1 .or.·

10 0 ·

------ ---· --

or,w... L f't-u u~ G 1~11 1·w\ ,, 1 1

w·

t:U"··

uo·

70·

2

PLATE. No.2231
('( ,)LJ,NI ,(·

PLATE No. 2200 U5"

~o-'.!

l '.

f;;,·odet/I'

_(,"rtTTr)'

fit>/}Ort 1;_,r /.'JJ2

r

i.:.:o·

w:

oo·

or::

no·

70·

"''

--i

--

D

0
'[
--r-------..-1
l fi.l1JooAils:

I

0

N

IO

IC

I
I
N

l
+-__j1-- 1 - l~ ....---i· ---- ~
A
N 0

T

IA
H.'lUJ..t] 'y

N

T H

'·'~
-

I
N
G
_ l

t=i~ 1 I

-·-.
/

I

fJ
c,.,
ord
H,~l.!..!l:J

11
U Tl H
l'iml"O·

s

i

D A

~~ ~ ~
~ , /.

\ l

-fo
-t"....

I

\

0

-~h/1\~ V ( \~~ )\ "'°
---..\ \
~

·D"

I
-- .l
--------r.. -----:.:-:.
--1:!.huiu_i!

r-~-:;

I
I

C...:. 1

r

1 1 -----f\--

I II /

1

I

I ..,. . ,. ._~,~ ·. .- ,i;illilUUh

"Z-

~~

\I

I

\ "Z-.1 ..u~iag
I

N

----~- ·~.!'.!'_"f!?

E

R

K
.----

-

/ \l"l ,ui,.pi;i9r

/
I
\

U'"11. .. ;

A
G.ik·~ 1:.i,""'l·

H

Denver

---r ----1 ----. ----o

1 ----

r

\
\

\ \
\

n\
\

I

II f II """'"""/· r (

!

L
J

//
'j
I

-.

.

C.iomoJ . .

Sp~,,

' l..llat.:<.·

_ _ /-

-- ,..
K
-

,,,.,,.,/,,..

---'.Jbp
-~

---

,.'}
I
I

\ ,,xf,Jon ("i~ ~·
/

/

~.,...... +

.·

iO

H I //: I~/

\_~:

I

'·<>1u'-"bowj I I I ,

,

//?'------

j/.:-

,,;,

.::::,~
·5 S I
I I
I

<I>
0

'-·~n'""~:Ji.';><:!~[!;:i;;.,,.:=;
-"""
I '

A

N

--+----1---J___ "''"'i""
\

-1 ,. ,,,..-

' , ,.-

--

----

~

--

,,,....- (/
-'f>
/

' ',
'

<
4

I

--

--. ''°''"""'''
y

35·

-Y

I'

/'·

.:~"J'',"'·- o;.oudou
C

,..-

1 h otoonl·

·-'

/ /-·-·

)

I

...

-~,, ,,J,,,,

A

· l"J·"i0 cott

R

z

N

A

N

E

w

II I

/

E

x

c

1 0

~~);:-:it"''~O'c"-r'~I"/':. .""7~:::~~~ j't':-., iL:~~L~t~--l ____l==
8 '· ,,

I ~-t
I
J

I '

G .cri co

·- ·· · · - · -· \ I
I
llGutJ-rie

I

"iii):_\'IUr:

s

£

£

_/

!

J.
I

Rnno

0

K

A
~,.U'!........

H

0
I

M
_

~
I

·A R

- ,....

'"-',<'·c,,"

',,

I
B:U..~
>::>UU · .......

I

J<owl· ><

11·~·

,

T~kow·

.

,

/' .\ /

<, /

t
. ·"'

II~,,~
~

,,..

l T -I """"''~ ,,,.....,,../

,,,..,,,.....-:,,..

-""

-

/ _I: "
.1.A

..

/

/

I

I

"

/

T~-r
I
'""\

//
/

j/1
''/

.,J

,1 ,, ,,
II

,,

1' /

30·

r------1~

..._...,,_

/

I

i H,,, __

, -~
"'

'

" ' =-~~

-,---+I l

' .,.._ --- ·- _,

A~ / -r---t. : i\-1---=:~~~" . .--J---===:t:=~~k:----i----l---++--+----J----1--~-1--r-;.-W
I , I/ I I -----I I I
Fott W'oi·tli

'

'

.

<.f\ <.f\

C-

'"' .,....

""
·

E

X

A

S

·

I

,

, ,., ,.

~

'

~~-_;;~.

/

,

~,_,.

!!:""'

I
'.,.£

-~

25"

!----+-

~~-kL . /_I I
~

I~

1. 1 I
I

I

I

I (~1~1····
I

"1 1/,/1 '
I I

I

I

I

I

I

\

\

I

I \ I I
Ji'

I \

\ \

t~ \
___,__
_J___..,.,0 ----i

20·

.I I [,ql[
-?"'

I IG
S1111'n11 't!.t·n 1· ,.·

tiI L I IF

I
-

l

~
-

I

I pf

f
!;

~

I c I \

20'

U . S . Coast and Geodetic Survey
O.H .Tittmann . S uperintendent

BASE MAP OF THE UNITED STATES
(Proje cted on intersec ting cone)

~I
., 0 -0

1 - I I\ /.\: I I I --, ..
<'.....

I
0

I

I

~-1-------4I "U ~--1

'J.J:..J:hn

a {l wit/WIU /t~ ·

. I t. Ua1, or · ic· (r'1Jl!!;l1 t·rOttll·/t·r .

=1

· t~-

-20·

-~ '

I

I

I

-

----~

Sea.le 1:7000000

-i----i--r---1St.a.tute Miles

1~ :;r-~

""1
coo

1lcu:ico.
20 0 300

100

Kilometers

'~

J1

,

'°°

300

~

..·

~o

~o

'~

000

-

I -1 I

I

~
J.05°

I

~
1.00· Wc11t. Cr ~ · C:rn ..1.1wic h

--

llr,·

110'

...

G
00"
Hf)0

AO"

1r ~~

3

TrS.C,oaJtt!: ~tir. Sw-,·t;y Reporc, ror lflJ2
J.25"

PLAT( No. 2239

PLATE No .2200
!)!'."

x,,
00"
ar~·

:~

120·

lih 0

I

--i----r--L
0

--

uO"

_1or -:

10 0 ·

00°

7~;

70 °

-i---rtu} ile.>·

"''

f,;· GhHfrtli t: Srlirit
m vd

d'Veltll!f

~-1-t· p;i·
i

----·-----N

__ f-- __ L1
-Tir

I__ I J--r~- j_ 1 'o.s] il ons T
JJ0/

pf'
J

ro LTwie J912

G ruvil,t' a 11lt TU'J,, S 1~1Iio1'.''
I I 0 ""-"
i

I

N

I

I
;./

-~---t-~- J

\
.:.a·
I

-/-

T

A

lL.-/- A

I
·-/d .,
.

-11___,___ 1'

:r=

'

-- --

-·~-+- l--

/--~ ~ - 11~1--r- -1-~
1

I

I'

OJ'J '~K IT A l_
····"1" ,

/

~

r-i
0 T

--------1--1-- ~

"'

~1 ;+---1 , -· - I
I
1

~ ~~
0

I

0

_\

L~~-t

'1

---r-

.. -- 1- I
I
j ,,o·

/--J__ I
ol
(
M

~
I I II

"---+--

I

~r

II

oc"'-c)J7r' w f'
I /

f~ J~ I
"··

It

;--

0

I

s

U Tl H
J'i .,r1v"

D A

+ !

n-i1__ -t~j~·._ .L-_'I _.-P\~~ -~ 1- \I

I

-i-

~
I

t~

/

C>

-

"

'"'[ "o'u'1 - _-z--__ -

1/

I

r +-'Y

~Tl

. _ ___ ,_

~--r-- ~ ·CJ1e~Q.1 0

- i-1

l l

! ~

l-\---L..._ _l_

I

~
R A

_-! -_ -~~~ ~
_ ,_ ,._ · L·u· \

\

...J-----;\:?'1 \
~

N I E

s

__

__ , 1

1 __

1

K

r

I

c

-;~1=.
j

I
R

I

~-1 ". ,,T.. ... .. ' J=-:i i

I

0

i

I

r-1__ ,_ _L .L~, -t-j .. '. \ _ \t~I...,..\
'I!
1 - - - - - .- .

!'Ir _ ]_ -

"'

I~""\-;°''

I . ~ \ -~ / \
-

I

I

\

,~

1

I

,

..... : -

1 _

~o

1
L,. .

Sp·' """ hi ·

0

I·

'l'

II

i£:=t=~~~2_/~~~~~~
.1 .
0'

'--\--~
\
\ '

1~-\~\
1

~J\J~-\ 4 \ \I
'1.
I

l__j' I i

I

··

·

·-· ·.!

~
\

\- 1
I \

~

I
Stt.t:rtn. J"u .,

- ,--. __ I T I
t

.J___j_

I -, i---

--rz
0

I

N

1/ i -~--1---:-. ~ NI
A E

1-

f-------t,,.r________,Jer~':'_ ~E

r :~),,
, -Y A I 0

--- -

~-

j
H 0 M

I

:

~
'
I

v

f'

N

1

~-\-~~ ·· 1
5

\

\

I

\

p-' 1-

1 : --:i:=--~ ---+__iii , 1 I
I

. I
1

'A- R-

-L_1

A I. . -- -

~

- s- 'A1 s I

k -:- · _ \
I

t-, -t\~I ·
_
I
I -,,.

S

£ \/·_/\\
I I

I
I

.
1

I

/
'

~ ~ . ~U-''_ --~--r----1 ~
-

'~
\

I

I~\
I

I

-_ . ---··
\

'-.

\

\

.L-----

J'

0

'-

\

·~t~
I- - ! - · ---I

I'

:

I
I-r

30°

-----+,
A

·

i_cf~1 T \ ' i. r
-_ \ _ -1
i
(j>

~IP

-- ~_]. ... .. ." I
-</

--\, ·:]o__.L----1-" --~
-</

'* -

"1--3- b10·"""

l~
---~-r-\

\

-\ \
-\'--\
-

\ --~

~1

·-·-.I

I
i

- -· - -1

'\;:: .
!

~

/ I
I

I '

T

E

x

s.

t

--

--·r_ -t-:· \( . L eTn~
l\lw"fl

-; ~--\-- I

__..\\
'

-

r---r - I
Id
~

I~___j_'

~1

I

_

t_

~l!:-

~~~F

0

~-~-t-\-- .
.
Jt

-

'

·l__.\---\
I~

\

I

~---t-6-- i I ---- ~ _,
-;1~--+--~ /~I l ~ /. / "k. --r
f' -

--+---_J___/

I

I

--i

·br~ ·:;;,\ <1 \ - \'· -~,.)\_\-------"'\-~

.
~
.

I I

I I I I I I \ LI c-1J~-lI F I ' J 1J ---k- k--4
___
---.-,;· , nvi(;r
1>'/(

-

~·

\

1.. ;.]:~~--;:, l·· ...:'f1
-:

I i n-ro

-_

--J__~--+------r--i-- ___ ,
I

I----Ji- L) __
,L_ _ _ _ _ --,

_,..-;

----·

I

2(f

I
v

U . S _Coast and Geodetic Survey
O . H .Titt ma nn . S uperi ntendent

·
" 3" 9
.,

f--

----·--___ ___,_-·I J____ - - -

--I

:
I

i
!

BASE MAP OF THE UNITED STATES
(Projected on intersecting cone)

Sea.le I: 7000 000

--+--/___ /
JOO

- - h -__

I /----7--7--/?j~---;

.

I
I

I ~"

~ --

·- - lVh..·rr"
"

n,,. z,,,·rthu
tSO:f'((W 01'

l"i>r'!i;19f( llUiu;n;t: $1 ;;;,~hus,
b.~'('l"VUlitJJI$ of"' J tu 'J )'O:: .1.r.s.

-

\ --1---.----..
--"' '
I

\
20 ·

I
I

I
'

o

~t
I ·'

"
"

,,

,.
"'

'

-~ -

I -__ ..,. - i - - -

[) Wld fl l J1t.' )'C<11".b

Th,· I Uer d ufn,i· ft,, ·th·· swntiol ·i ndil:'<lU" , l.a1...JfaiJJ." dt'.uti.o 1.s ·fhrvhai..,, 1fiA,,, aiv~.tJi _f. ;:1--;;~~"rh· 'litbl<'s .

I
\

. l'..---J____

I

1- · - - -

--- ---

---I

Sta.t. ute Mi les
1&l

~!t' Fi'.' ,
D 100

100

2 00

Kilometers

I~

>00

300

'00

>00

.. - ..
.
t..0 0

-·

+- ~I

--_._,___j.._
-+- - --+-----+-

--+----

---~-- ·

-·.,~i ---

--1--\

-

'

'

- ·-

i e oa

~-_)___

1
=·
.u.o·
1.05"

-- -=t-==-=

=-=~=--

--1uo·

-~-'- '-·~· ~ =-J
nr:
w .,,.1 f1 · 1.1u. G1 ·· .w u,.. i1ih

---~--/ ).A~ ---

-- -\

J--=1

!IO'

l- ,___....
Vo'

I

-

--- - - -

---

---80 °
"If·"

~Id

----- --- - -

- -

4

~ \
I

\

\

·

·

·
·

· · ··

· ~ · ·· · ·

·

· ·

·

.

·

·· · ·
· ·

·

·I
~

·· · ·

.·
·
·

· ·v ·

·

·

·· w· ·

·
·

· · · ·

·

· · ·
0 I W

·

· · · · ·

· · . . ·· . . ·

·-·-

·1 ·

· · ··0 · · · I ·

.

·· ·· >-· · ;. · · ·· · · · ·· · ·

::>

.
·

~

>I

v

7

"'. ·

·i · · ·
·
-p .
I

..
· ·
· ·

·

·
· ·

·

· · · · · · ·

· · ·
0

·

·
\

· ·

.
·

· · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · ·~ ·· · · ·· · · · · z · · · · · ·

·-·-

.-

·
·

1 : ..

."'·
·

·
·
·

·
·

\
·
·

I
·

·

·

·

·-

.. .

·

· · ·

· ··

·

· · ·

·
·

0
0

·

\
\
·

·

·· ·

·

·
·
~

.

~·

...
I

· · ·

·

·.
·

<(

··

({)

· · · ·

.
·

\

· · ·
· · · · ·

i

·

,
·

· ·

· · · ·
M
M N N

·
·
· ··

· · · ·· ·

· · · ·

·

·
··

·
·I

·

·
·

z

'~ '

w

'

·

·

· ·· ·· ·
·

\ .

."'

·
· ·

· ·
·

·

· .1

.
·

1 ·

· · · · .· ·
·

...... ··" .
~.

·
·1

· ·

·

·

· ·

·

··
· ·

· · ·

· ·
· · ·

· · ·
·
· ·

·

·

· · ·
··

._.}_.
.

·

·
·

·

·
· · ·

....! . - ~.....

-

· ·· ·
·

·
· ·

·

CJ) ,

·

·
· ·

·
· ·

·

·
·

,_
0

..

·
· ·

·· · ·
·
·

··

·· · · · ··
·
·

·
·

·

··
·

·
· · · · · · ·

· ·

· ·

..,

.9

· ·

· · ·

·
Ul

·
·

·

· · · · ·· · ·

· · · · · · ·

Jfl

· ·· · ·
· ·

· · · · · · · · · · 1 · 0 · · · "' · · ·(/) · "' · · ·

·

...

·

· · ·

· ·

·~
·

·
·

...
· · ·

.

.,.
·

· · ·

·

·
· · · · · ·

· z,

·

· ··

·

·

·

<(

·

·
· ·

· · ·
· ·

·

· ·
·'
I
·

·

.
·

·

.,_
0

:i:

·
I ·

,
· · ·

·
·
·
z . · ·

·

·w ·
· · · · · ·

···

· ·
·

·
· · · ·

· · · ·· ·
r ·-

·

·
·

·

·
· · · ·

·
W·

· · ·

·

·

· ·
·

· ·

·

· ~
Q 0

·

·
· ·

·· · ·

'
·

·
·

·

·
· ·

· ·
· ·
0

0

·

·
·

·

· ·

· ·

· ·
·

·
·

·
·
a:: ·
0

0 1

·

I
·
·

· · ·
·

·

· ·
·

z

· · ·

·

·

·
·
· ·

-

· · ·

·
· ·· · · · · · · · · ·· ·

/.

·

·
·
·

·

)
·

·
·
·
·

I·
· ·

·

· ·o

·
·

I
·

I · ·
·

I

x
w

·

·

·

·
·
u

"'

·

·

·

·

· · ·
w

·
·
· · ·

·
·

·

I
·

·

·

· ·

··

·

z·

I

I

·
../

·

·
·
· J:

·

· ·

z

'
·

. - ·-.
1 .

I

·

·

.

'

# ".

"'
·
_ ___,
Q .· O

0

~·

·

·

·

·

·

·
·
·j.

·

·

·

z

en
w
I<(

i' >
':i

1U)

({)
O· .;::;

-0

" c "

0

" s
·;:
({)

w
1-

·
c
0
0 '00

-u
0
Q)

Q)

o.. , "

"
"

z
::::>

·;;

c
0

0 0
0
0

()

-u
c: cd

c c

w
I

2 l c

~

0 0

t-

f.=
I

::

"' E

1u_

,,
0

c

0

ci

n..
<(
~

l

·

~

·
0

w
(/)

I~

<(

ro

I

j

COAST&> GEOO-ETIC SURVEY REPORT, 19!2

l'LATE

:No.l.65~

100·

95·

so·

...

ao·

7a'

UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
1

SKETCII OF GENERAL PROGRESS
JUNE 30, 1912
EasteTn
Shee1~

&ole 5.0$000

s u
K T

1' ,

; :

-·----.

I I,
Ii
I

I I

r-

~I

-

'°" 1 1---+1-.---1
I

I

,_ I

-

..

·.

T

'

"

.

: ':

.. .

.....

.. '·::::

.
. ..

'

. . . . . . .. .
·.
~

.'

...
-\

'

.

.
.1

\

.C

. \.'
·1

·

.

·

·

.

--1' ·\-_·.
- -

·- ....

..
· MO

I

I

I ~
.. .. .. . .
.

-lV~\ . -+~-· L~~·~··-·~~=1,i:,·~ ··~:.:·:<. ._:. . .. .
.. . . ... . .. . ..
. .
·::..

\ .;

\.

.

..

.

.

.. . . .

.

.0;
. .. ..

..

.-.. .

. . . ,,. . .

. . ... .. ..
0

. .. '

... ·-

-. -"'7 - _ ...,, _ .·

...

I
\
-<.u·Ufiry .. . . . .

EXPLANATION OF 5Y1111lOLS

Primary Tri.a:ngul.a1:iun-... ... . .

~'_"::_,ndary !_:Jrumgulmion....

~HUJ~...

:MXXJ.CO ·

I

I
100'
95" -

'

....·. a.o. ;... ..In-slwre Ifyitrograp]lfY.
.... .. do .. ... Off-1th.um .. .. iW ...

.............. ,,:-:

................ ·:::::::::::::: .. . . . . . . '
. '

..... ,

.
·

LinL.fl of lJup Sf'All SmnUI.iTl{ls ... .. ........... . ...... · ·

. -. .. .., .. . . .. .. . . ....
, · · · , · , ·

..... de .. . ~ Levelling.
90·

"''

PL.Al'E No.1655.

...

...

so·

r;o·

...

A

UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

SKETCI-1 OF GENERAL PROGRESS
JUNE 30, 1912
Eastern Sheet
Scale

5.oo?fooo

)
-·--.

Sl8.tnle :Milet1

. .

.\ : -~
.
.

·1

--k-K-~~1.~ J' ·

:
'

. . .. .' .

;_.\/ :
..
..

.

. . . . .. . . ... . . ... ... : ... :: .... :. .: . . .

·\

\

.· . ·i· . · ·. .\
. .·· .. .·.: .. ..

_cJ-+--+---r-r.::t1

+--

~1-~t)~l;~~~~ ~ ~---~~~~~o~\~~~~~ L ~\
....

j . :: .

·\ ·

..
·

·. \. ...

~

. . . . : .\-

.. ..... .< ·...

:: \

.

I

-- r \

~

' .

I

\

I

?JJ"

\ -------\
..... . . ·. · ..
· .·

\

· .· ... ;

. . ·· .. . . .... .

... . . . . ...
..

.. . . .

.

...

. ..

.. ' .

..
\

\

.

...' ..

..
.. . . . .
. ..

.. . .

.

.

\

.

····· 1 · ·. . : . : ...

-.1 ·-.·
::::

.

.... .
.
"

..

. ...

.

.

..

..

1.

..

. . . .... .
. I . . ..
'

. . .

..

.\
.. : ... . . .. ·.. .

\

.I .
. .
\

..

I

... .

..

-:r~~::... : ··".':'.,:";:~·;· . ' ' .. . .
~

'

_() ;

..

. .. . .
.

. ...

..
:.:"::

-·

··~ . ~

·.'

...

·~

...

..
.. ..

' .,
'

... ··

\

.. .
Prinuu:J'

EXPLANATION OY SYMBOLS

Tr1".aAgulauOn~ ...

;~7:::~.,'IH.anqU«:DW~......... , .......... ,.

... ..

..

:Rtctnvt.a:i8'1NDU%. ..

'
90·

.. ·: ·: ·: ·: ·: ·: ·: ·: .....

.. .. ".''.", . , ..

. . . . . , . '... . ' .. ' Litu.11 of Dup Sur, S<JWl.ding& ... .. . ..... ...... .... . .. , · . · · · , · · · , '

...... du . ..... Off-- shore. ..... do ..... .......... .... ....... ..

. . . . .. . . . . . . ..... .. .. .
sir

..... de .. -~ Lr:.vrll.iAg.. .................... ··· --~-~---

'

,,,.

c;Oil;ST & GE.OOET1C SURV EY Rt:P ORT.1£112.

PLATE Nn .1651.

1.2.S·

120"

116"

110 °

1.05'

ioo·

..... ---- ·- - ·-

·I

E 1V
· Socorro

I

---

I
- - - - -+---

" ',' r --_.. ~· · -~

...

.

·. :: :... ..

~\.:.

.

r

.

· '

. Monte ey

UNITED STATES COAST M'D GEODETIC SllTRVEY

....

'

.

SKETCH OF GENERAL PROGRESS
JUNE 30, 1912
Western Sheet
2o·
Scale

'
l

... .

'

:,.o®ooo
Blas
0

_____/ _ _________,_

EXPJ.ANATlON" OY SUIBOLS

Cape Corti..ntes .

;Ufuuy .. ..

'1'.

Stt0ndary ·

·j

l'rU:utg~u·O/lJ , ..

.... -~

____J_ --r----J~I-:M:Exrc o .

__r--+---.J.
--t-----1--

/\/VVVV\/V\/v\/v\i\ ··· · vvvvvv·"Jvvvvvv·

do ... bt-shm-e. Bjldrogra.p!tj·. 'do. . .Off-yh/Jrt,.. ... r l.o.

-~. . . . . ........ . . . .. .
. .
~

l\i\!\1\J\! O\!\J\/\1\1\! \

---- -----+-·

---1----J_

. . .

... ..

-----+----105"

... do. . . ..6wdw.'c- I.evt!71.Ui9 ...
11.5'

no·

--

_ _L
'

100'

Pl.JI.TE No.16SO:.

·
1.o s·
10 0·

no·

90'

so·

r o

fl,

n~fttl:-4-1--~~J---+-'\T~ A

I

KO

I

G

es Moines

r

I I

co·

~'I
I

=-- +J...----

---

I I I t-;--+-~
I

---,,..:_

I
\

I

T

E

30"

:·. · ...........
.

. ... · ..

...

...

·.....

. .

. .·
G

.. ,

.. .-.· .·J-.
, No

..

. .F.

25'

r·
SS

.....

0

F

-·

r
--Blas
0

.. -.

-.

I.
x
I

c-

Tamp·

..

-

..

c

0

"""'

I
M:E:x:rc o .

. . . . . . . . . ..
.

- -105'

ioo·

95·

90'

·
l'l.A'tl.; N o. 2.'lllll

,. .

14.8"

152°

159'

160"

16t,°

i.:a·

172"

176'
£ iu.-t

100·
from Green.wi.Cb.

1 7~·

17'2"

168"

-1,.

c
152'
14ff
l4.4°

lGO ..

1.ss·

lii,O"

136"

132"

128°

124"

12o'

U6 °

f Vl-'Clrt.. fi·oro <n·eeuwicli

\)
·· 0

----------

4.

J?

r

I

c

0

c

E

A

N
~

\._1
'?

c, .

"\)

"

~~

..,. .
UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

. ·l&b,l!'>11..,

s
I

't..Rope

~

Cl

13

·'f.

e
R
I

SKETCH OF GENERAL PROGRESS

A

ALASKA
JlJNE 30, 1912

~

~o/

~

D

~

6 Gravil;y stal:1."on..'1. .. .. L atip..tde dete1·1ninn.:t.WTU> .·..·· Longiru.de Azirn,u.th " .. ........ , ......... 'II.
·'
'l'idaJ._ o1>SlJ1'1'ation:J.

.. .+

......

"'

~

If ..,
~

'O
~

~
~

\.

.. ·. . .l\l"U'I.

MG.[Jn"'6-c o~va/iolia T ri.a:ngulat:ion ... Topography ... ...... ........... .. _

...JSi';i'S. %N0.

· ······

~A.
c

'<-~

"

-\)

Hydro:;rapllfJ'· ·· ·"·. ... .... v·. .... .... Ji:lfZ{;g x. x )<. x D~p~ea. s oundin..qs ....
Uo
g

-;j.'.'.'.··

'" '

\.'
()

(,

</>

(rSJ
·
·

.··. ., . ;;; . . ,.::.n' > ·
·

. .........
$ 1<-

..
'

p.
·
''

f----__-f------..__
I
S6°

I
I

1 "'·"·""q~ l
I

·

\\

\:.<~·: · . _,__, ~v~1~ , /--lk·-----\~ _:::;·~I~~~
.. . ..
..

'·:

ti. }.; ti.
0 f
G

:::

__

·. ": :" ·.·

4$

J

.o

j·
·
·
·
(l

v

J,

f

··

... ..
·

·

·

.. ..
·
si

·

·
·

.B

··

.e

It

I

\\
S2·

~

N

13

1·' \

-~

v
·

·
· ·· ·

G

s
~;
~.

E
~

A:

~<~~

""

·.....
~:

.. .. .
·..
: ' '

1
.
I

·
I .AV~ ;. "

·
..fl · '""'1,

·

·

"'

...

~
,./\.

: il
~

~
'

c

J3

}>-

...
'O
4
L
1.
]';

'V

~
Scale

tT

T

I

A

:N
r:;
c

0

'!J

5,oob-ooo

.:;;~~;·

...
St.a:tutcMiles
WO
50 0

..
0

cJ

D(;Q

-------'A ---------p

J

_.. . f

~ J

0

.C

.

~·

C

W

~

-..~o

:.lGo)

Nn.u:ticul"Miloo
100 50 0 110

tiiil

=

~
WO

';)

· ,/
180° 176° l 72 · , .. 16 8

N

0
164 "

R

T

B
156~

L66 "

172·

176~

160"

1~2 ·
.

148v

14 4°

14 0·

COAST
PLATE No. 3317

AL~D

GEODETIC SURVEY
'
D.
15.5°

GENERAL PROGRESS SKETCH
160°

161°

159°

iss·

West of Greenwich

157°

15_ 6°

____,z'f

++ + +
+
0

+ +

HAWAIIAN ISLAND S
+ +

+

(Hw~aiian Government Surveys also shown)
+
+
+

Triangulation ... ...~
Topoarap1o/ . -f#&I.#. Hydrography ... . ·,-,-,-,,,-,,

Deep Sea Sdgs .... + + + + Longitude determination(telegrophi.c) t
Magnetic observations..
JUNE 30 1912

.. ·

COLON HARBOR
AND

·

BAY OF PANAMA
Triangidation ............ ~

Topogra.ph?J· ..................... Wl.'#B Efydrogra.phy . .... ·., · .. ... .Magneti.c observations.....·... ... ...e

a·oo·

·

L 8"30'

------+--------jl9'

·
+ + +

+ +
+

+ +

+
+

+

+

PORTO RICO
Pr·inun·y trfongula.tion .... .......... Secondary and tertiary triangulation -~ Topography .. ~Jf18 Hydrography .. . Magnetic observations. ... .. . .. . .. ...... . ·
JUNE JO 1912

*:;fsJsi.

ss· oo·

67°00'

30'

West of Greenwich

66°00

30'

es'oo'

TE No.2949

E

Jl7'

us·

n9·

120·

121°

122"

123"

124·

125 '

126"

121·

UNITED STATES
22

COAST .AND GEODETIC SORVEY

SKETCH OF GENERAL PROGRESS

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
2L"

x
x

o. B atan Islands I
I

JtJN.E 30,1912

x

IAiitude deternrinatWns .. .. . .... .....Longitude (lelegrophic). ... + .Aziniuth ...........:-.... Tidal observations._ ..,, .................................... ~
:Mizgn.etic o'bserPaJions.. . ... .. .... .. ... .. .. .. .. ....... .. .. · .T riangcdaiion .......................... ...................... ~

20

x

Topo~7iy. .... ...... _.... H/yitrognzp~.............. Ikcp .yea, sowuiings... ......

. . ~t~:.f ... ·"""""""""" .. .......... x x x x

x

7"

I
-I
16"

x

~
15"

.....

0

- - - - l - - - - - 115·

~--+-------+----'~"-=---t-----il4.'

--+---:------+------+-----113·

/

s

U

L

u

S

E

A

BOR N EO

111·

uu·

ll!l'

120"

121·

122·

123'

124·

125'

l2G'

127 '

2

Merca:tor projection 5 000000

-,,n,

lat;. 13 · N.

