.J;,
I

QB

W-5 1<1[3

6)t:tfo
ANNUAL REPORT
OF THE

(.,~

SUPERINTENDENT, UNITED STATES COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
TO THE

SECRETARY OF COMMERCE
FOR톂HB

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1913

WASHINGTON GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1913

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey
ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages . Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library, the Office of Coast Survey and the National Geodetic Survey. To view the original document please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or www.reference@nodc.noaa.gov.

LASON Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387 March 22, 2005

Blank page retained for pagination

CONTENTS.

GenH~d~~~~hl~:~rk~~~~~:- ................................... - . - . - . - - -

Page.

5
6

Office of Inspector of Hydrography and Topography ........................ . Office of Inspector of Geodetic Work ........................................ . Office of Inspector of Magnetic Work ........................................ . Apropriationa and disbursements ......................................... . Pu lications ............................................................. . ~con_o:rny and efficiency ......................... - - - - - - -                    pe_cial duty ............................................................. . ASsistance rendered in saving life or property .. : ............................ . Details of field operations: Atlantic coast .................... - ... - - . - - - -                           Interior States ..............................  - -    -  -  -                Pacific coast ..................... - - - - - - - - - - - -                           Alaska ................................................................ . Porto Rico ................................. ~ ............. ......... . Hawaiian Islands .................................................. . Special duty ................. - - - - - - - - - -                                International boundaries .......................................... . Details of office operations ....................... - - - - - - -  - - - - -  -            ILLUSTRATIONS. Chart showing organization of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1913 ....... . 1. Progress of reconnoissance and triangulation in the United States ......... . 2. Progress of topography in the United States .렁........................... 3. Progress of hydrography in the United States ............................ 4. Distribution of the principal astronomic stations occupied to June 30, 1913. 5. Positions of telegraphic longitude stations from 1846 to June 30, 1913 ..... .
6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15.

8i~~:~~~~~~~~~~-:-:-:-~::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: '.:

Geodetic, magnetic, and tidal work ..................................... . International boundaries .................................... - - . - - - - . - - -

10 10 11 11 14

8

18
18 19 20 20 21 40

16

45
48

Outl~fi~~~~ands ................................................ ~

55 65 65
68
72

91

_o_f_ _ Positions of magnetic stations occupied to June 30, 1913 .................. . Positions of astronomic, gravity, and tide stations in Alaska to June 30, 1913. Progress of triangulation in Alaska to June 30, 1913 ....................... Progress of topography in !A.laska to June 30, 1913 ....................... . Pro~ess of hydrograpby in Alaska to June 30, 1913 ...................... . Positions of magnetic stations in Alaska occupied to June 30, 1913 ........ . General progress in Porto Rico to June 30, 1913 ......................... . General progress in the Hawaiian Islands to June 30, 1913 ................ . General progress in the Philippine Islands to June 30, 1913 ............... .
3

R:tj~! ~~~1iY~. ~~~t- ~~~~~~ -~~~. :~~~~~ ~~t-~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~

4 48 48 48 48 48 48 48
54 54

54 54

54

64
68 64

.;...

CHART SHOWING ORGANIZATION OF THE

COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
1913

SUPERINTENDENT
O.H.Tittrn<tnn

i------1ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT F.'IY. Ftriins

DISBURSING
Sco~lt'u6it

EDITORIAL W./lC/lilfrM
[Drlr

DislHtt71컉g A$Uf

GEODETIC WORK Wm.Bowie laapedrlr

MAGNETIC WORK
Rl..F~

HYDROGRAPHY g. TOPOGRAPHY
J.J.GilMrt

lnspcdPr

'"''*''"
PlllUPPlll[ SllKVCYS

COMPUTING ll'nl&wit Cilrcfof Oirislotl
CHARTS

INSTRUMENT
.6.Fiac/Mr

P.A.Wrllrv Director

Clticl oFIJirWoll

A.T.11Cil#FtJFOinaion

TIDCS
L.1' Shitf1

Qf.laf/Jj.,iWa

TIDAL RESEAllCll R.A. "'1-ria CllilFaf Sctiall

REPORT
OF THU:

SUPERINTENDENT, U. S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
DEPARTMENT OF Col\niERCE, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY,

1Vashington, October 4, 1913. Sm: I have the honor to submit the annual report of progress in the Coast and Geodetic Survey for the fiscal year ended June 30, ~913. It is accompanied by maps illustrating the general advance m the field work of the Survey up to that date.
GENERAL STATEMENTS OF PROGRESS.

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1913, satisfo.ctory progress was made in the survey of the coasts and in the interior of the, United States and of territories under the jurisdiction of the United States, although in some localities, notably on the coast of Alaska, the weather conditions during the greater part of the working season were unfavorable for the rn.p1d prosecution of field work.
HYDROGRAPHIC WORK.

On the Atlantic coast most of the hydrographic work done was in the nature of revision to show chang-es that have taken place in natural or artificial features, to investigate reported dangers, and to supplement former surveys found inadequate for the requirements of modern navigation. The examination with tho wire drag of important harbors and channels has been continued, an<l this work has amply justified itself by the large number of ~reviously uncharted rocks and shoals that have. been discovered. Nece..<>Sity for similar work on the Pacific coast has led to a supplemental estimate under the head of " Party expenses, Pacific coast " in order that :funds may be provided for this important object. The steamer Bache was employed on the coasts of Georgia, Florida, Delaware Maryland, and South Carolina; the steamer Endeavor in Chesapeake Bay, on the coast of North Carolina and in Narragansett Bay; the steamer Hydrographer in coast pilot work between Key W'est, Fla., and Chesapeake Bay and on the coast of North Carolina; and the schooner Matchless on the survey of the Mattaponi. Pamunkey, and Elizabeth Rivers, Va. 
5

6

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY'.

Several parties were engaged in the revision of surveys on the Atlantic coast and an officer with headquarters at New York has acted as inspector of the section of coast between Rhode Island and New Jersey. On the Pacific coast of the United States the steamer Gedney was employed during the winter months in revising the hydrography of Olympia Harbor, Bellingham Bay, and other harbors on the con.st of Washington. An officer stationed at Seattle was engaged in inspecion duty on the coast of Washington and Oregon, and another with headquarters at San Francisco performed similar duty on the coast of California. In Alaska surveys have been made in Tlevak Strait, Prince 0 Wales Island, Karta Bay, Kasook Inleh Sukk:wan Narrows, San Cristoval Channel, and Ulloa Channel; Turnagain Arm, Cook Inlet; Sumner Strait; agproaches to Kuskokwim River; Aialik Bay and approaches and Nakat Harbor; between Naked Island and Port Wells, Prince William Sound; in Clarence Strait; Kla wak Inlet; Knights Island Passage; Culross Island to Port Nelly Juan; Burnett Inlet and Davidson Inlet, Unimak Pass, including Shumagin Islands, and a search was made for Leonard and Anderson rocks. The steamers Patterson, Gedney, 11/eArthur, Explorer, Talcu, and Yukon were employed on surveys in Alaska during the season available for work. During the winter months the steamer Patterson was employed in hydrographic surveys on the coast of Maui, and off the west coast of Molokai, Hawaiian Islands. An important work in Alaska was the survey of Tlevak Strait, Prince of Wales Island, which has made available a passage hitherto feared and avoided by navigators. By its use steamer routes may be considerably shortened. In the Philippines the general survey of the islands has been continued by the Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Pathfinder and by the steamers M arinduque, Research, Romblon, and F athome.r, supplied for the purpose by the insular government, the expenses of the work being divided between the United States and the insular govern ment. Surveys were made by the vessels named on the southeast coast of Mindanao and t1ie southw~st coast of N egros; on the Apo Reef and Busuanga Island, and between the Cuyos Islands and Palawan; in Ragay Gulf, southwestern Luzon on the west coast of Mindanao and the west coast of Mindoro; in the area bounded by Luzon, Burias, '.Masbate, and Tablas Islands, in the vicinity of the Lubang Islands and the Calamianes group; and in the area bounded by Samar, Leyte, Biliran, and Masbate Islands.
GEODETIC, M-AGNETIC, AND TIDAL WORK.

Two triangulation parties and a separate signal building party were employed on the primary triangulation along the one hundred and fourth meridian from the vicimty of Colorado Springs, Colo., to the Canadian boundary. This arc of triangulation, extending for a distance of 720 iniles and involving the occupation of 100 primary stations, was completed in a single season. A party was engaged in making a reconnoissance for the extension of the primary triangulation of the ninety-eighth meridian from

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

7

Alice, Tex., to the Mexican boundary, and another partr. was employed in the execution of this triangulation which will connect with that executed by the Mexican Government.  One party revised the triangulation on the coast of Louisiana in the vicinity of Cote Blanche and Atchafalaya Bay, and another the triangulation of Laguna Madre Tex.  A secondary triangulation aiong the coast of Washington was begun. Two parties were employed in running a line of precise levels between Crookston, Minn., and Butte, Mont., and one party was employed in running a line of precise levels between San Francisco, Cal., and Beowawe, Nev. Determinations of the difference of longitude were made by two cooperating observers at stations near th.e one hundred and fourth meridian in Nebraska, Colorado, Wyoming, and Montana. Several :parties were employed in determining the positions of aids to navigation and of wireless telegraph stations along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, as requested by the Bureau of Navigation of the Dej>artment of Commerce. The inspector of. geodetic work inspected the operations of the triangulation parties engaged in the connection of the ninety-eighth meridian triangulation with that of the Mexican Government. . The usual absolute observations for magnetic declination, dip, and intensity were recorded during the year at the magnetic observatories maintained by the Survey at Cheltenham, Md.; Tucson, Ariz.; Vieques, P. R.; Sitka, Alaska, and Honolulu, Hawaii. Seismograph records were obtained at these observatories, and daily meteorological observations made in cooperation with the Weather Bureau. Special 1'tpid-rate registration was maintained on certain term days in compliance with the plans adopted :for international cooperation. Magnetic observations were made in the field at :i large number of stations in the United States and in the Philippine Islands, and meridian lines were established where desired by local authorities. Ves-  sels of the Survey are provided with instruments for making magnetic observations both at sea and on land and a large amount of valuable information is gathered in connection with the prosecution of surveys ashore and afloat. . The demand for magnetic data on the part of engineers, surveyors, and municipalities interested in local surveys or projects for improvements is a constant one. Much information of this kind is available in printed form, but much is furnished by transcripts from manuscript records. Tide observations were made in connection with hydrographic surveys and at regulai: tide stations ~t Portl~nd, M~.; Fo~t Hamilton, N. Y.; Atlantic C1tyi N. J.; Ph1ladelph1a, Pa.; Baltimore, Md.; Fernandina, Fla. ; Ga veston, Tex. ; San Diego and San Francisco, Cal.; Seattle, '\Tash.; and Juneau, Alaska. Tida.l indicators were maintained at Fort Hamilton, N. Y.; at New York City; and at Reedy Island, Delaware River. Through the cooperation of the Bureau of Li<Yhthouses current observation~ ":ere made at ~ number of light vesse~s along the Atlantic coast. S1m1lar observations were made when practicable 톌y the hydrographic parties of the Survey.

8

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES.
UNITli:D STATES AND CANADA BOUNDARY.

On the boundary between the United States and Canada east of the summit of the Rocky Mountains from the Red River of the North to Lake of the 'Voods the party engaged in topography, vista cutting, leveling, and interpolation of monument sites advanced the topogrn.phy for a distance of 95 miles along the boundary; and the vista cutting for a distance of 82 miles; 102 miles of boundary were. located and 155.5 miles of levels run. The party engaged in triangulation on this portion of the boundary occupied 24 triangulation stations and completed 550 square miles of triangulation, a distance along the boundary of 87 miles. The triangulation of Lake of the 'V"oods was completed by June 20, 1913. A base line was measured near Fort Frances, Ontario, and a ra.Pid reconnoissance was made with a view to the extension of the tnangulation as far as the mouth of Rainy River. Seventy-five monuments were set on the boundary during the season of 1912. The north and south boundary to its intersection with the boundary running southeastward was located and marked in the spring of 1913 with reference monuments. The north and south line was measured twice with an invar tape. Eleven triangulation stations were occupied in May and June, 1913. A Canadian party, to which an American surveyor was attached, was at work during the season of 1912 from the northwest angle of Lake of the "\Voods to the southward. The triangulation was extended down the lake for a distance of about 25 miles; reference marks were established, and a hydrographic survey of the lake along the boundary was made by the American surveyor. Work in this locality was resumed May 27, 1913, at Betlr Island, Ontario, and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year. The party working between Pigeon River and Lake of the Woods during_ the season of 1912 carried the triangulation and topography from Round Lake to the western end of Knife Lake, a distance of about 35 miles. Twelve topographic sheets were complete. Work was resumed in the spring of 1913, and by June 30, 50 square miles of triangulation and 78 square miles of topography had been completed, covering a distance along the boundary of 6i" miles. The party at work on the survey and monumenting of the northeastern boundary between Maine and New Brunswick completed the measurement of 31.5 miles of boundary with invar tape, ran 37 miles of levels, and surveyed 42.39 square miles of topography, included on six topographic sheets. A lane 30 feet in width was cut through the dense forest along this portion of the boundary. The monuments set by the commission of 1842 were reset and additional monuments were interpolated where necessary. The party engaged in the survey of the boundary in the valley of the St. Croix River completed 18 square miles of triangulation and 2 square miles of topography included on four topographic sheets. This work was done during the season of 1912. In the latter part of June, 1913, work was resumed and marks were placed, to which that portion of the boundary formed by Monument Stream was referred. A plane-table survey was commenced at the initial monument to show in detail the shore line of Monument Stream. 'Vork was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.

. REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
A.LASKA BOUNDARY.

'9

During the season of 1912 the line tracing of the one hundred and forty-first meridian boundary was carried 즦om latitude 69 20' to the shores of the Arctic Ocean in latitude 69 39', a distance of 22 miles. In the same season the triangulation was completed from latitude 68 54' to the Arctic Ocean, 51 miles, and was extended eastward along the shore for 25 miles, to determine the relation of the terminal monument to the shore line. Topography was carried northward along the meridian by one double topographic party from latitude 69 04' to latitude 69 39', a distance of 40! miles, and was then expanded westward along the coast to longitude 141 30' and eastward to longitude 140 48'. This topography takes in the natural features nearest the boundary, including Icy Reef, Beaufort Bay, and Demarcation Point to the west, and Clarence Bay to the east. Vista cutting and stadia measurements were carried on 즦om latitude 68 50' 40" to the ocean coast, a distance of 58 miles. Another vista cutting and stadia party operated south of the Porcupine River for a distance of 33 miles, connecting with the work completed in 1911. The final monumenting north of the Porcupine River was completed to the Arctic 0.cean from latitude 68 30' where it terminated m 1911, a distance of 80 miles, and south of the Porcupine, over 78 miles. In all 56 monuments were pluced in 1912. . The monuments were inspected and numbered from the Arctic coast to the Yukon River, the most northerly monument being No. 1. From the Arctic Ocean to the Yukon River there are 115 monuments in a distance of 344 miles, or an average of one monument to 3 miles. The demarcation of the boundary line has therefore been completed north of the Yukon River. Between the Yukon and Mount Natazhat there remains only the inspection and numbering of the monuments, which it is expected will be completed during the present season. In June, 1913, preparations were made for a joint inspection of the boundary monuments south of the Yukon River by an American and a. Canadian surveyor, but owing to various delays work was not begun until June 27. . South of Mount Natazhat the boundary extends to the vicinity of Mount St. Elias, a distance of 84 miles in a very difficult mountainous region. A triangulation party and a topo~aphic '{>arty were sent in 1912 to make surveys preliminary to defimnS' the bne m this region. 7'riangulation was carried from stations which had been established 1!1 Scolai Pass in 1909 down Scolai Creek, across country to the Chitbo1na River, and up the Chitina River to within about 30 miles of the undary, a distance altogether of about 90 miles. Plane-table topography was carried across the boundary 즦om the mouth of the Canyon Creek on the Chitina, up the valley of the latter, taking in the top of the ridges on either side, and photographs were taken from which a considerable additional area can be plotted.  In May, 1913, a base line was measured, and arrangements were made for extendin~ the triangulation up the Logan glacier. By June 1 the reconn01ssance was completed to within 8 miles of the boundary, where progress was delayed by a heavy snow fall.

10

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

A topographic party took the field in the Mount N atazhat region in April, 1913. By June 30 about 100 square miles of topography had been surveyed. . The survey and monumenting of the water boundary on Portland Canal was conducted by a Canadian party to which an American surveyor was attached. A scheme of triangulation is being extended along Portland Canal and the topography of the adjacent shores is being mapped. Permanent reference monuments are placed on both sides of tlie canal and these are connected with the triangulation. During the season of 1912 the triangulation was extended for a distance of about 64 miles, and 31 reference monuments were placed. Field work was resumed at the end of May, 1913, and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
SPECIAL SURVEYS.

Requests were received for special surveys in the following localities: West Penobscot Bay, Me.; Rockland, Me.; Piscataqua River, N. H.; Weymouth Fore River, Mass.; Nantucket Shoals,Mass.; shores of Marthas Vineyard).. Mass.; Point Judith Harbor of Refuge, R. I.; East River, N. Y.; ureater and Little Peconic Bays, Long Island, N. Y.; outer and inner harbors of Delaware Breakwater, Del.; survey of grounds of Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, D. C.; location of line of Florida A venue, Washington, D. C.; special triangulation in District of Columbia; special hyarographic examination to determine extent of pollution of water in Potomac River, Md. and Va.; Hog Island Bay2 Va.; channels at entrance to Chesapeake Bay, Va.; determination or position of objects on the north shore of Hampton Roads, Va.; Sheephead Rock, N. C.; determination of position of aids to navigation in St. Johns River, Fla.; Tampa Bay, Fla.; Mississippi Delta, Miss.; Angel Island, Cal.; Yaquina Bay, Oreg.; Halibut Bank, southwest of Newport1 Oreg.; Culross and Perry Islands, Alaska; Chicagof and Lisiansln Straits, Alaska; Shumagin Islands and Iniskin Bay, Alaska; and determination of position of wireless stations   on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
DANGERB TO NAVIGATION.

Dangers to navigation were discovered, investigated, or reported as follows: Rocks near shore line in Narragansett Bay, R. I.; in channel near Plum Beach Light House; near Hope Island, and in entrance to Wickford Harbor, R. I.; shoal near Beaufort Inlet, N. C., and shoo.ling in channel between Beaufort Inlet and Core and Bogue Sounds; reported shoal near Cape Lookout, N. C.; channels near Hog Island lilhoal, Narragansett Bay; shoals on coast of North Carolina and Virginia; shoals and rocks in Block Island Sound; shoal near Point Judith on which U.S. S. Nebraska struck; rocks in Buzzards Bay, Mass.; shoals in Key West Harbor, Fla.; reported shoal near Winter Quarter Shoal Light Vessel; reported shoal northeastward from Cape Henry; wreck on Long Reef, Fla.; reported shoals off Jupiter Inlet and off St. Lucie Island, Fla.; wreck of the Oondor off Carolina Shoal Beach; Weymouth Fore River, Mass.; reported shoal west of the Graves Light House; reported changes in Pollock Rip

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

11

Slue; shoal in Great Round Shoal Channel; reported shoaling in channel between Pollock Rip and Shovelful Light vessels; wreck .of the Luclcenbach, in Chesapeake Bay; rock off Fish Egg_ Island, Alaska on which the steamer Curacao grounded; rock in Tonawek Bayi Alaska, on which the Curacao was wreckedi rock at entrance to Coa Bay, Alaska; search for Leonard and Anderson rocks; shoals in approaches to Kuskokwim River; shoal in Port Wells, Alaska; rock near Perry Island Passage; reported rock nead 톣edge Island, Clarence Strait, Alaska; reef southwest of Dall Head, Alaska; reefs near Cresto de Gallo Island, P. I.; rocks in channel running over Apo Reef, P. I.; shoals in region between Pana;y and Palawan, P. I,
OFFICE WORK.

The work of the Coast and Geodetic Survey office includes, besides administrative details, all operations necessary for the preparation and publication of charts, coast pilots, tide tables, notices to mariners, reports and special publications which give the results of triangula. tion, precise leveling, and magnetic work, except printing and binding, which is done at the Government Printing Office. These operations include the reduction and plotting of results. pbtained in the field, comi;mting, drawing, engraving, lithographing, photographingJ electrotypmg, and chart printing. Instruments used bY: the field parties are repaired and.in some cases constructed in the office, which has a complete equipment for mechanical work. The proceeds of sales of charts and publications during the year amounted to $15,709.88, _and miscellaneous receipts (work done for outside parties, sale of property, etc.) to $1,016.84, making a total of $16,726.72, which was duly covered into the Treasury.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF HYDROGRAPHY AND TOPOGRAPHY.

The Inspector of Hydrography 11.nd Topography supervises the field work of parties, on the surveying vessels and all other hydro- . graphic and topographic work, including coast pilot work in field and office. He prepares plans for field work 11.nd mstructions for the chiefs of parties and recommends the approval of estimates and changes in the personnel of vessels when necessary. He conducts the . ro.utine work relating to the shipment of seam!m and makes an administrative examination of the accounts of the vessels. He reports monthly the progress of work under his direction and the status of the crews o:f vessels and of other employees not under civil-service classification. He also personally inspects the repairs of the surveying vessels on the Atlantic coast. Work done in the office comprises compilation of the Coast Pilot, Proof reading, correcting existing editions, and other miscellaneous details. The field work of the coast pilot party is referred to elsewhere in this report. 
Vl:SSELS AND PARTIES.

.o.udrews and Sapelo Sounds and Tybee and Port Royal entrances;

~~re hydrogfaphy between Charleston and Savannah, including St

The party on the st~amer Bache was engaged in inshore and

off-.

12

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIO SURVEY.

B~~R

and offshore work between Delaware and Chesapeake Bays. The Bache was repaired at Boston between September 26 and October 27. The steamer Ende(]!l}or was at work on the hydrography of Chesapeake Bay from Kedges Strait northward; in Narragansett Bay, R.<텶.; and between Cowpen Island, Core Inlet, and Morehead City, N.-C. Repairs to this vessel were made at Baltimo~e; between November 20 and January 2, and at Jersey City between May 19 and 24 and June 24 and 30. The steamer Hydrographer was employed on Coast Pilot revision between Chesapeake Bay and Key West; detached hydrograp.hic. surveys on the coast of Massachusetts and on the coast of North Carolina in the region between Cowpen Island, Core Inlet, and Morehead City. The Hydrographer was repaired at Baltimore between .December 21 and January 20 and between June 19 and 30. The party on the schooner M atc!Uess completed a survey of the Pamunkey River, Va., to the head of navigation and began a survey of the southern and eastern branches of Elizabeth River. This survey was nearly completed by the end of the fiscal year. The Matchlesa was repaired at Baltimore between July 1 an~ 23 and between June 26 and 30. Wire-drag work was done in the channel between Block Island, R. I., and Montauk Point, Long Island, N. Y.; in Buzzards Bay, Mass.; at Key West, Fla.; and on the coast of Maine in the vicinity of Matinicus Island. A resurvey of the Delaware River from the House of Correction Wharf at Trenton was completed and a survey of Newark Bay arid the Hackensack and Passaic Rivers was begun. Chart-revision work was contii:iued, including shore-line changes, improvements and additions in vicinity of New York City; on Long Island Sound eastward from Stamford, Conn. ; on the coasts of Maine and Massachusetts; and a survey was made of the dredged channel between Great and Little Peconic Bays, Long Island, N. Y. Preparations were begun at the close of the fiscal year 'for making a series of current observations in the Potomac River. An officer of the 톁urvey continued to serve in cooperation with the Maryland Shell Fish Commission and was engaged throughout the year in the preparation for publication of maps, reports, and descriptive data relating to the surv~ys and delineatio.n of the oyster grounds of the State. 톂he same officer aided the Shell Fish Commission of the State of Delaware in the preparation of a report of their work. Information was collected for the preparation of an inside route pilot from Cape Sable, Fla., to New Orleans, La. A hydrographic survey was begun of Piscataqua River and Great

An officer of the Survey performed the duties of inspector for the 톜egion between Narragansett Bay and Deln.ware Bay during the year. Information was obtained by this officer for chart corrections and notices to mariners and data relating to charts, tides, and sailing directions has been supplied to navigators and others interested. A-revision was made of the shore line of Hog Island and portions of Rhode Island and Bristol Island, and of the hydrography of the channel between Hog Island and Rhode Island and in the vicinity of Hog



REPO:i;t~ OF SUPERINTENDENT1 COAST AND GEODETIC i;lUBVEY ~

13

Island Shoal Light. The construction of certain boati:; for the use . of the Survey and of ma.chinery and boilers for the same and the collection of data relating to depths in channels and harbors were among the varied duties performed by this officer whose headquarters are at the New York Custom House. The steamer Ernplorer was employed in the survey of the entrance of the Kuskokwim River Alaska. The Explorer was repaired 톋t Seattle and at the Puget Sound Navy Yard between January 20 and the early part of April, and afterwards a radio apparatus was installed on the vessel. The party on the steamer Gedney was engaged in surveys in Kasook Inlet, Sukwan Strait, Tlevak Strait, and San Christoval Channel Alaska, and in revision work at Tacoma, Olympia, and Seattle, Wash. The vessel was repaired at Winslow, Wash., between February 24 and April 4. The steamer McArthur made hydrographic surveys in Cook Inlet, of Aialik Bay, and offshore between Aialik and Resurrection Bays; at Nakat Harbor and Burnett Inlet and at Iniskin Bay, Alaska. The vessel was repaired between February 19 and April 15 at the Puget Sound Navy Yard. The steamer Pattm'Son was employed on the triangulation and topography of Clarence Strait, southeastern Alaska, and in the survey of the Shumagin Islands and Unimak Pass. During the winter the vessel was engaged in the hydrography around the island of Maui and off the west end of Molokai Island, Hawaiian Islands. Tem~eratures of sea water were obtained both in going to Hawaii and m returning. The Patterson was repaired at Seattle between July 1 and August 2 and in November and May. In the latter month a radio apparatm:. was installed on the vessel. The steamer Talcu operated in the northwestern part of Prince William Sound between Naked Island and Port Wells, and in the north arm of Simpson Bay, thence southward toward Knights Island Passage and westward from previous work to the mainland. The Takit was repaired at Cordova, Alaska, between April 2 and May 1. The steamer Yukon was employed on the survey of Turna~ain Arm, Cook Inlet, and in the approaches to the Kuskokwim River, Alaska. The Yukon was repaired at Seldovia between April 23 and . May 10. Revision work for the correction of charts was done at Blaine, Bellingham, Anacortes, N eah Bay, Port Angeles, Port Townsend, Richmond Beach, and Coupeville on Puget Sound. The revision of the triangulation and topograpl!J of the island ol: Maui was completed and that of the island of Hawaii was begun. The work has been carried from Hilo around the northwest point of the island of Kawaihae. An officer of the Survey continued in charge of the suboffice at San Francisco and as inspector for the coast of California. A resurvey was made under his direction 0 the United States immigration statipn on Angel Island, San Francisco Bay. . An officer acting as inspector for the coasts of Oregon, Washington, and Alaska and in charge of the office at Seattle in addition to  o.ther duties re~dered valuable service in the preparation of specifications for repairs of vessels and of plans for a new launch for the

 14

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDEN'l', COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

steamer Path#lnder, in planning work for vessels in Alaska, and in collecting and furnishing information useful to navigators and for corrections to the charts.
PHILIPPI?-.'"E ISLAND8.

An officer of the Survey detailed to duty as Director of Coast with headquarters at Manila, has direction of all field work in the .t"hilippine Islands. The details of this work are mentioned elsewhere in this report. The steamers Pathfinder, Fatlwmer, Romblon, lll arindugue. and Research, have been engaged in that work. Of these vessels all except the Pathfinder are the property of the insular government, which provides the crews and keeps the vessels in repair. The salaries of the officers and the running expenses, including outfit, are paid by the United States.   Congress having made an appropriation for extraordinary repairs to the steamer . Pathfinder she was taken to Hongkong, arriving December 24. Extensive repairs were made, which were completed on April 8, when the vessel returned to Manila. The Pathfinder encountered several typhoons during the year, the most severe of which occurred on October 16, when she was lying at Cebu. Both of her launches were dragged from their moorings and swamped. One was recovered without serious damage; the other was lost. On November 6 the steamer Marinduque during a typhoon was driven on shore of a small island east of Palawan and seriously damaged, necessitating extensive repairs.
Survey~

OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF GEODETIC WORK.

The duties of inspector, conducted at the office in Washington and in the field, consist in the supervision of the work of the parties of the Survey engaged in geodetic operations in the field, the discussion and preparation for publication of the results obtained, and the investigation of scientific problems based upon such results. The inspector assisted the International ~oundary Commission by inspecting the records and computations of triangulation and the reports of the field parties engaged in the survey of the boundaries. As one of the delegates on the part of the United States he at. tended the meeting of the International Geodetic Association at Hamburg, Germany. A field inspection was made of the work of the parties engaged in triangulation in Texas and Louisiana.  An important work completed during the year is the triangulation along the one hundred and fourth meridian from the transcontinental triangulation in the vicinity of Denver, Colo., northward to the Canadian boundary, and connecting at various points with State boundaries, with the triangulation of the United States Geological Survey at one point with the triangulation of the Missouri River Commission, and with bench marks established by the United States Geological 'Survey, by several railroads, and by the Coast and Geodetic Survey.

UPO:BT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVBY.

15

Two parties were engaged in this triangulation, which was begun May 10, 1912, and finished December 4, 1912. Two base lines, aggregating about 25 kilometers in length, were measured and 14 astronomical azimuths were observed. The scheme of this triangulation extends over 720 miles and covers an area of about 17,000 square miles. Eighty-two primary and 19 secopdary stations were occupied and 133 geographic positions were determined. The reconnoissance and signal building for this work were completed in the summer of 1911. . Another event of great importance was .the completion of the triangulation along the ninety-eighth meridian from Alice, Tex., to the Mexican boundary, a distance of 150 miles and covering an area of about 1,300 square miles. Thirty-four stations were occupied in the main scheme and 72 ~eographic pos.itions were determined. In the month of April 15 primary stations were occupied. This is the. greatest number ever occupied in one month by a single party in this country and has probably not been equaled elsewhere. The reconnoisance and signal building were conducted by a separate party. This triangulation connects with the coast triangulation at Point Isabel, Tex., and it will finally be connected with the primary trian~ lation of Mexico, which extends across that country from the Pacific Ocean to the Rio Grande approximately along the ninety-eighth meridian. In connection with this work a determination was made of the difference of longitude between Austin and Donna, Tex. A line of precise levels was completed from San Francisco, Cal., along the line of the Southern Pacific Railway to Brigham, Utah. The levels are connected with tidal bench marks at San Francisco and with precise level bench marks previously established at Brigham. The fact that the Geodetic Commissions of Mexico and Canada have adopted the same datum and spheroid used in trigonometric surveys in the United States gives to this datum an international character. Its designation has accordingly been changed from United States standard datum to the North American datum. Other work done during the year was the revision of triangulation and the determination of geographic positions of aids to navi.gation, the determination of the positions of wireless towers along the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, the teier;aphic determination of difference of longitude between Omaha, Nebr., and five stations on the one hundred and fourth meridian, and the beginning of a secondary triangulation along the coast of Washington and of a line of levels between Crookston, Minn.;.i.. and Butte, Mont., and the preparation for remeasurement of the j!jJ Paso base in Colorado. Six new publications relating to geodetic work were issued during the year. These are listed under the head of "Publications" in another portion of this report. The manuscript of these publications was nearly all prepared before the beginning of the fiscal year. 1913. . . The manuscript of a report on the triangulation of the west coast of Fl()rida was sent to the printer before the close of the year. A publication on the precise level net in the United States and a report o.n the triangulation of the coast of Texas were nearly completed.

16

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

OFFICE OF INSPECTOR OF MAGNETIC WORK.

The duties of this officer are to plan magnetic work to be carried out in the United States and outlying territory under the jurisdiction of the United States, to inspect magnetic work in the field, and at magnetic observatories ; to recommend changes in the personnel and salaries of magnetic observers; to recommend the purchase or construction of new magnetic instruments or alterations of old ones when required, or the designing of new ones; to recommend changes in the design of instruments or methods of observing to secure better results or save time; and to supervise the planning and construction of buildings for magnetic observations. In October the Cheltenham Observatory was inspected and in March the Porto Rico Observatory was visited and inspected under instructions from the Superintendent. All other inspection work during the year was performed at the office by the current examinations of the records and reports from chiefs of magnetic parties and others engaged in magnetic work. Detailed instructions were prepared for the guidance of magnetic observers in the execution of the field and observatory work and computations. The magnetic observatories at Cheltenham, Md.; Tucson, Ariz.; Honolulu, Hawaii; Sitka, Alaska; and Vieques, P. R., were in operation throughout the year. Seismographs were kept in operation and meteorological observations were made at all of the observatories. Special rapid-rate registration was carried out on specified-term days, each month in conformity with requests for international cooperation in connection with the Australasian Antarctic expedition engaged in magnetic observational work in the Antarctic regions. At the request of the Batavia, Java, magnetic observatory special rapidrate registration was carried out at specified-term hours during the month of October for the purpose of securing additional data for the study of the rate of propagat10n of magnetic disturbances. All of the instruments used in field magnetic work during the year were standardized at the Cheltenham Observatory and special observations and comparisons were made 톐or determining the constants of various instruments. Further instruction was given at the Cheltenham Observatory to an observer preparing to go with the Crocker land expedition and to a newly appointed magnetic observer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. Necessary repairs and alterations were made to the observatory buildings where required.
MAGNETIC WORK ON LAND.

The magnetic elements (declination, dip, and horizontal intensity) were determined at 245 stations. The stations were distributed, in accordance with most urgent needs, over 28 States and Territories and outlying territory under the jurisdiction of the United States, and one foreign country, as shown in the table following. Fortyeight " repeat " stations were occupied during the year for the purpose of obtaining observational data for mamtaining adequate information of the secular change of the magnetic elements, especially of the magnetic declination. The magnetic work in the Philippines, mentioned in my last report, was concluded in January, 1913.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY;
SUMMARY OF RESULTS ON LAND.

17

States.

_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ,____ !_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __

Locallties.

Stations.

c~~d..

calltles

Old lo-

Decllna-

tlon rooults.

results.

Dip

Intensity results.
' 2 2 18 3 5 2

4 17 l 18 3 5 2 10 l 21 1

y tlsh Columbja.......................... 1 l 1 1 2 2 UJcon Territory .......................... _ _ _ 1 ___ 1 ___ 1 ___ 1 ___ o __j
Total.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 238 246 48 252 231 23i

~:s ~ ii 1 11 11 ~ B~lnla.............................
1 l O 1 l l

s

~;~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

0

gf!h Carolina................... . . . . . . . . .
~1hlne Islands..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4 2 6 16 5 7

4 17 1 18 3 6 2 10 1 22 l 2 6 16 6 7

4

: . . : :

2

2g

g ~

g

3 1 3 1 1 0 0 1 2 0 ~

1 l 1 l l l 0

4 17 2 18 3 6 2 10 l 22 7

~

M

11

~

~

g ~~

4 2 6 16 6 7

~

g ~~

10 l 22 6 4 2 6 16 6 7

4 2 2 18 3 5 2

10 1 22 5 4 2 6 16 5 7

g

~

M

The magnetic work done at sea by the vessels of the Survey was, as in past years, incidental to the regular surveying duties upon which they were engaged, and the magnetic observations were made when the vessels were en route to or from their working grounds, or where opportunity offered on the working grounds. The sea results ar~ not so numerous as in past years, due largely to the fact that the ships have recently covered little new territory. The following table shows (approximately) the amount of magnetic work carried out on board ship during the year, several of the vessels under instructions for magnetic work not having yet reported the work done during the first half of this calendar year :
SUMMARY OF RESULTS AT SEA.

Results from swings.
Vessels.

General region.

Intensity.

tlon results from course
observa-

Deollna-

tions.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~JL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 렁렁렁1
148770-13---2

J~1!캩rapher .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o:cui rson........................

Atlantlo coast............... Paolfto coast.......... . . . . . . .

5
1

o t

O
1

g

O

A

f

&

Total ..........................................................................................렁

All of the vessels of the service that are suitable for it are in- structed during each season to make such magnetic observations, espe-

18

REPORT OP' SUPERINTENDENT, OOAST AND GEODETIO SURVEY.

cially the magnetic declination, as there is o,i;>portunity for doing, either at sea or on land, where the weather conditions and the requirements of their regular duties permit. The Patterson and Emplorer on the Pacific coast are supplied with sea-dip circles for determination of dip and intensity at sea, and they are also equipped with ma~ netometers for magnetic work on land. The BMhe has not had a diJ> circle during the year. One of the needles of the Baahe's dip circle was broken over a year ago and since that time this office has been experimenting in the construction of dip needles for this instrument, with the intention of ultimately being able to make suitable dip needles here and thus avoid the necessity of having to send to Europe for them with the consequent long delays in getting them.
APPROPRIATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

The total appropriation made by Congress in the sundry civil act for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1913, for the Coast and Geodetic Survey was $1,022,720, divided as follows:
Field expenses--------------------------------------------------- $814,400 Repairs and maintenance of vessels________________________________ 40, 000 Extraordinary repairs of steamer J>athflnd.er ----------------------20, 000 Officers and men, vessels__________________________________________ 245;000 Pay of field officers----------------------------------------------- 160,200 Pay of office force-------------------~-----~---------------------- 193,120 Office expenses--------------------------------------------------50,000 Total------------------------------------------------------ 1,022,720

The deficiency act for 1913 contained two items for the Coast and Geodetic Survey, namely:
Repairs and maintenance of vessels: For installation of wireless apparatus on three vessels _____________ $9, 000 For rewiring the Coast and Geodetic Survey b1J1ldings_____________ 4, 300 Total--------------------------------------------------------- 13,800

The statement of disbursements required by law to be made annually to Congress and published as a separate document gives an account of the names and number of employees of different classes employed on the worki the amount of their salary or compensation, the length of time emp oyed, to whom payments were made under the different items of appropriation and on what account, and the balances left of the amounts appropriated for the fiscal year.
PUBLICATIONS.

The following publications of the Coast and Geodetic Survey were received from the printer during the fiscal year 1913:
Results of observations made at the Coast and Geodetic Survey magnetic observatory at Vieques, P. R., 1909-10; by Daniel L. Hazard, 1912. 10 charts. 94 pp. 4to. Same: Sitka, Alaska, 1909-10 ; by Daniel L. Hazard. 21 charts. 96 pp. 4to. Same: Tucson, Ariz., 1009-10; by Daniel L. Hamrd. r> charts. 2 text fig. 119 pp. 4to. Catalogue of charts, coast pilots, and tide tables, 1912. 86 text fig. 228 pp. 1.to. Effect of topography and isostatic compensation upon Intensity of gravity, 2d paper; by William Bowle, 1912. (Special publication No. 12.) 5 maps in pocket. 28 pp. 4to.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

19

Geodetic operations in the United Stn.tes, 1~12, report to 17th conference of International Geodetic .Association (Hamburg, Germany, Sept., 1912, with list of geodetic publications by Coast and Geodetic Survey slnfe Jan. 1, 1909); by 0. H. Tlttmann, 1912. 3 pl. 18 pp. 4to. Texas-California arc of primary triangulation; by William Bowie, 1912. (Special pul>lication No. 11.) 2 pl. 6 pp. of pl. 141 pp. 4to. Survey of oyster bars, description of boundaries and landmarks, and report. of work of Coast and Geodetic Survey In cooperation with Burenu of Fisheries and Maryland Shell Fish Commission; by C. C. Yates, 1912 [each large 8vo., with large map]: Talbot County, Md. 250 pp. Dorchester County, Md. 180 pp. Statement of expenditures In Coast and Geodetic Survey, fiscal year 1912. Jan. 16, 1913. (H. Doc. 1271.) 14 pp. 8vo. Inside route pilot, New York to Key West, 1012 [by Herbert C.. Graves and W. E. Parker]. 8 maps in pocket. 62 pp. large 8vo. Annual report of Superintendent, fiscal year 1912. Portfolio of 9 maps. 1 ding. 106 pp. 8vo. Same (H. Doc. 966). Inland waterway, .Atlantic coast. 2 pp. 8vo. . Regulations and Instructions for government of Coast and Geodetic Survey, 1913. 83 pp. 8vo. California-Washington nre of primary triangulation; by A. r.... Baldwin, 1013. (Special publication No. 13.) 7 text fig. 78 pp. 4to. Determination of time, longitude, latitude, and azimuth; by William Bowle. 5th edJtlon,1913. (Special publication No.14.) 8 pl. 18 pp.of pl. 177 pp. 4to. United States coast pilot, .Atlantic coast: pts. 1, 2, St. Croix H.lver to Cape .Ann [Supplement to 3d edition]. May 27, 1913. 5 I. Jnrge 8vo. Same :-pt. 3, Cape Ann to Point Judith [supplement to 3d edition]. May 20, 1913. 4 I. large 8vo. Sal:Jle: pt. 4, Point Judith to New York [supplement to 5th edition]. Apr. 22, 1913. 8 I. large 8vo. Same: pt. 5, New York to Chesapeake Bay entrance [supplement to 4th edition]. Muy 12, 1013. 7 I. large 8vo.  Same: pt. 6, Chesupen:ke Bay and tributaries [compiled by Edwin H. Tillman und John Ross]. 4th edition [revised by Herbert C. GravesJ. 1918. 2 maps. 5 text fig. 162 pp. large 8vo. Same: pt. 8, Gulf of Mexico from Key West to Rio Grande [supplement to Bd t'ditlon]. May 12, 1913. 9 1. large 8vo. Uuited States coast pilot, Pacific coast: California, Oregon, and Washington [supplement to 2d edition]. May 12, 1913. 8 1. large 8vo. Same: Alaska, pt. l, Dixon Entrance to Yakutat Bay, with inland passage from Juan de Fuca Strait to Dixon Entrance. 5th edttlon. 9 pl. 4 text fig. [Reprtut.] large 8vo. Same, supplement. May 20, 1913. 12 I. large Svo.

A number of other publications were in press or in course of preparation for publication at the close of the year. The total cost of printing and binding for the Coast and f'xeodetic Survey, including blank forms and miscellaneous job printing for the year, payable from the appropriation for printing and binding for the Department of Commerce, was $26,52.6.52. 
ECONOMY AND EFFICmNCY.

A large amount of the time of officers and employees of the Coast and Geodetic Survey was devoted during the year to the preparation of statistical and other information called for by the President's Commission on Economy and Efficiency. An analysis was made of the expenditures of the Survey and s:eecial estimates were prepared in a form requested by the commission. An itemized statement was made of the expenditures for transportation and a number of special reports were prepared.

20

REPOBT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUBVEY.

SPECIAL DUTY.

International, Geodetw Association.-The Superintendent continued to supervise the operations of the observatories maintained by the International Geodetic Association at Gaithersburg, Md., and Ukiah, Cal.; and the Superintendent and the inspector o"f geodetic work, as delegates on the part of the United States, attended the meeting of the association at Hamburg, Germany, in October, 1912. Board on life-saving appliances.-The Superintendent is chairman of the board appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury to examirie and report upon life-savmg appliances. Mississippi River Oommission.-An officer of the Survey, in addition to other duties, has continued to serve as a member of the Mississippi River Commission. Maryland Shell Fish OomJl'Tl/UJsion.-An officer detailed for duty with the Maryland Shell Fish Commission continued on duty in char~e of office work and the preparation of maps, reports, and publications. Assistance was rendered by the same officer to the Oyster Survey Commission of the State of Delaware without expense to the Federal Government. Two officers of the Survey were detailed to represent the Department of Commerce at the conference of port authorities. Both of these officers were in attendance at the meeting in New York and one of them also attended the meetings of the conference at Boston, Philadelphia, and Baltimore.
ASSISTANCE RENDERED tN SAVING LIFE OR PROPERTY.

On October 7 the steamer Hydrographetr, on her way from Pollock Rip to Boston, sighted a stranded four-masted schooner just south of the Marconi Towers, Cape Cod, and went to her assistance. She was loaded to 21 feet with coal. The Hydrdgrapher at first alone and then with the assistance of the U. S. S. 0yr"U8 W. Fwld managed to move her a little, but was unable to dislodge her. Through the Fwld's wireless apparatus the revenue cutter Gresham was notified, and with two life-saving crews standing by the schoonertheHyarographer proceeded on her way to Boston. The GrfJBham was expected in time for the high water of that evening. The Hydrographer also rendered assistance to the schooner S<ilUe Purnell Beawiclc, which went aground in North Landing River, N. C. The Pacific Coast Steamship Co.'s steamer Ouracao, which ran aground on a bowlder spit near Fish Egg Island, Alaska, was assisted in gettirtg afloat by the Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Gedney and launch Oos~a. Afterwards when the Ou7'0XJao was wrecked in Tonawek Bay the Gedney took off the passengers and crew and conveyed them to Ketchikan, 140 miles distant, the nearest port of call for steamships. A very severe typhoon passed over the southern part of Samar, Leyte, Cebu, and the northern part of Negros on October 15 and 16. Hundreds of lives were lost and shipp_!ng and .property were destroyed in its path. The steamer Pathfinder rode out the storm in safety in Cebu Harbor, but 17 smaller merchant steamers foundered or were beached. Two of the Patkfinder'e launches, although anchored in a protected part of the harbor, were swamped. One of

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

21

these was afterwards recovered. Great praise was expressed by the public for the heroic services rendered by a volunteer boat's crew from the Pa:thfinder in going to the rescue of ship~recked sailors during the height of the storm, although they knew they could not return to their own vessel but would have to remain on shore. until the storm abated. Assistance was also rendered the steamer Liza'!'1'aga which was sighted in distress and she was towed: to a protected anchorage. The officers of the steamer ReseMck aided in extinguishing what might have been a serious fire on a new tugboat in the dock on Engineers Island, Manila Bay. For this service the officers of the Research were thanked by the Director of Navigation of the Philippine government.
DETAILS OF FmLD OPERATIONS.
ATLANTIC COAS'l', MAINE.

[E. B.

LATHAM.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTs.--Trlangulutlon: 185 square miles of area covered, 22 signal poles erected, 13 old stations recovered, 7 stations searched for but not found, 23 spires, lighthouses, etc., Identified, 23 stations In main scheme and 19 in supplemental scheme occupied for horizontal measures, 88 geographic positions determined. Topography : 94 square miles of area revised and changes n!lted but work Incomplete, 6 topographic sheets partly revised.

On July 1 chart revision work was being done between Ipswich, Mass., and York, Me. Revision work between Hampton Beach, N. H., and York, Me., was continued until September 30, when work between York and Portland Head was begun. The work of inspecting and noting changes in the topogi;aphy and search for. old triangu1ation stations was first attended to, leaving the collection of plans, local surveys, and data relating to new roads and railroads until the time when the weather would be unfavorable for outside operations. In December the compilation and plotting of the revised sheets south of York were completed.  The triangulation station Mount Independence north of Portland was recovered and marked.  . During the calendar year 1912 the revision of the topography was completed from York, Me., to the road just north of and parallel with Saco River, excepting the towns of Kennebunkport, Cape Porpoise, Biddeford, and Saco. Chart revision between York and Portland Head Light was continued until April 9, by which time the work needed was nearly completed.
MAINE, MASSACHUSETTS, CONNECTICUT, RHODE ISJ,AND, NEW YORK; AND FLORIDA.

[N. H. HECK.]
SUMMARY OF REBULTs.-Trlangulatlon: 444.5 sqtiare miles of area covered, 18 signal poles erected, 30 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 52 geographic Positions determined. Leveling: 17 elevations determined by leveling, 8 miles ot levels run. Hydrography: 169 square miles of nrea dragged, 416.8 mlles run with wire drag, 18.621 angles' measured, 561 soundings, 5 tide stations established, 5 by<!rograpblc sheets finished.

22

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the wire-drag party was engaged in work in -:Block Island Sound. Owing to lack of shelter from the wind, strong tidal currents, the necessity of using distant signals, frequent haze, and the .large number of lobster J>Ots which had to be removed before the drag could be used, the conditions here were found unfavorable for rapid progress. The area dragged in Block Island Sound consisted of a ridge with comparatively shoal water connecting Block Island and Long Island, surrounded by deeper water on both sides. The general width of the area in a north and south direction between the 10-fathom curves is from 4 to 7 miles. An area of 46 square miles was dragged between July 2 and September 24. A considerable number of uncharted bowlders and sand ridges were located. The location of the deepest channel was determined, and a dangerous rock was located. Under instructions of August 10 a survey was made of an uncharted shoal in Block Island Sound to the westward of Point Judith, R. I., on which the battleship N ebra,ska had struck on August 8. A careful examination was made with the wire drag of the locality mentioned, and a least depth of 21 feet was found on detached bowlders. An extensive bow Ider-strewn area was developed. This shoal lies 1i miles from the north shore of Block Island Sound and 4i miles west from Point Judith. Tides were observed at two stations on Block Island. Soundings were made in Trims Pond, Block Island, which has been connected with Great Salt Pond since the original survey. . Changes in certain topographic features on Block Island were determined by the party. Triangulation was executed over an area of 84 square miles to determine the /osition of additional objects to be used as signals in Block Islan Sound and of ,pther objects useful as aids to navigation. Between September 13 and November 20 the party was engaged in the northern end of Buzzards Bay, with headquarters at Marion, 렁 Mass. An especial effort was made to determine the safest channel leading to the Cape Cod Canal. An area of 28 square miles was covered. The number of soundings taken, a large per cent of which re:tJresent uncharted depths on bowlders or ledges, indicates the톘ecesSity for this work. _ A ridge of bowlders, with depths from 24 to 27 feet, was found to the southeastward of Cormorant Ledge extending for about 2 miles at right angles to the general direction of the bay. In the eastern part of the bay extensive bowlder-strewn areas were developed with depths from 14 to 20 feet. Six stations were occupied and 11 objects determined by triangulation.for use as signals, 3 of which are prominent water to~ers. The triangulation covered an area of 45 square miles. Five old tidal stations were visited, at 3 of which the old bench marks were recovered. Eight new bench marks were established. Between January 4 and April 20 a wire-drag survey was made of the channels at the entrance of the harbor of Key 'Vest, Fla. The object of this work was to cover the areas not previously dragged to a depth of 30 feet, to find the greatest safe depth that can

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, OOAST AND GEODETIO SURVEY.

28

be taken through each of the seven pos.sible channels to Key West_, not including the main ship channel or the west channel, and to find the safe depths that can be taken over the inner reefs at various points. A long drag, averaging 2,700 feet was used throughout the season, and a large number of shoals were found and dragged over. r:i;'he weather durin~ the season was unfavornble for rapid pro:ress. Thirty-one square miles of area were covered, however, an 316 soundings were obtained, about 80 per cent of which were made on uncharted shoals or shoals on which a less depth was found than had been indicated on the charts. A new triangulation was executed many of the old stations having been destroyed by hurricanes. Ali of the beacons, including the range beacons for entering the main ship channel, were determined, as well as many prominent objects of a permanent nature' at Key West. The stations were all carefully marked. Some verification work was done to ascertain the correctness of topographic details on the chart. Considerable improvement has been made in the methods of work and equipment used in the drag work as the result of practical experience, and a complete description embodying these improvements is in course of preparation for publication. On June 10 wire-drag work was begun near Matinicus, on the coast of Maine, and was in progress at the close the fiscal year.

of

MASSACHUSET'l'S. [EARL F. CIIUBOH.]

In November the necessary observations were made for connecting the triangulation of the Coast and Geodetic Survey with that of the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, at Newburyport, Mass. Preliminary to this work copies of trian~lation data were obtained from the office of the United States Engmeers at Boston and from t.he Harbor and Land Commission of Massachusetts concerning certain triangulation stations at Newburyport. Four points of the United States Engineers' survey of 1911 were joined with three stations of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. The location was determined by tria11gulation of Plum Island Lighthouse and of Black Rock (Butler's Toothpick) Beacon. The Salisbury Beach wharf and range lights are located by the Engineers' survey with which the Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation was connected, but sextant angles were taken to give approximate determination of Salisbury Beach range lights and of the point o~ Salisbury Beach wharf, where the tide staff is located. The jetues at the mouth of the river are well determined by the Engineers' 1mrvey. . In formation was gathered in regard to changes in topographic <1etails at the northwestern point of Plum Island and of the shore \me and. adjacent buildings along Salisbury Beach. A tide staff was erected at Salisbury Beach, levels were run between the tide staff and several bench marks, and tide observations were begun by observers hired for the purpose.

24

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY;
MASSACHUSETl'S, VffiGINIA, AND NORTH CAROLINA.

[PAUL C. WHITNEY, Commanding Steamer H11arographer.] SUMMA.BY OF RESULTs.-Reconnoissnnce: Length of scheme, 48 miles. Base lines: 1,541.3 meters in length. Triangulation: 163 square miles of area covered, 84 signal poles erected, 3 observing tripods nnd scatrolds built (average height 30 feet), 63 stations In main scheme occupied for horizontal measures, 130 geographic positions determined. .ropography: 27 square miles of area surveyed, 103.3 miles of general coast line surveyed, 6 miles of roads, 4 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography: 77 square miles of area covered, 662 miles run while sounding, 4,860 positions determined, 28,794 soundings made, 13 tide stations established, 13 hydrogr,aphic sheets finished.

Between September 24 and December 2 the steamer Hydrographe1 was engaged m chart revision work on the coast of Massachusetts. The work done includes a survey of the channel around Peddocks Island, into the mouth of Weymouth Fore River, Boston Harbor; search for reported shoal west of the Graves Lighthouse; hydrography of Cape Cod Bay, between Minot Ledge and Sandwich, Ma~~ survey of changes in Barnstable Harbor; resurvey of entrance to w ellfleet Harbor; survey of reported changes in Pollock Rip Slue; resurvey of channel between Handkerchief and Shovelful Shoals, and search for a reported shoal in Great Round Shoal Channel. On October 7 the Hydrographer rendered assistance to a stranded schooner south of the Marconi Towers, Cape Cod. September 5, 1912, the commahding officer of the Hydrographer was directed to make a hydro~aphic survey of the channel from Weymouth Fore River, around l'ig Rock and westward of Peddocks Island to Nantucket Sound; make a thorough examinution of the vicinity of the 5-fathom spot shown on chart 357, reported in November, 1911, bv Capt. Giles of the steamship Everett in the following position, "Graves gas and bell buoy bears SE. by E. ! E., Graves Lighthouse bears about S. by W."; examine 5-fathom spot about 2 miles off North Scituate Beach; examine the Si and 9 fathom spots 2-f miles east of Scituate Harbor and the 7-fathom spot about 1 mile south-southwest; also the 3!-fathom sounding 1 mile off New Inlet and the 7-fathom sounding off South River; examine the limits of 6-fathom curve north of Howland Ledge off Manomet Point and from Center Hill Point .,o Sagamore Beach ; fill in soundings between North Scituate to Sagamore Beach; make hydrographic survey of entrance to Wellfleet Harbor; and survey entrance to Barnstable Harbor. On September 24, 1912, the Hydrographic Office of the Navy Department transmitted to the Coast and Geodetic Sul'Vey copy of a letter from Mr. W. E. I. Stiles of the Branch Hydrographic Office, Norfolk, Va., stating that he had received reports from masters of vessels of shoaling on the southern side of Pollock Rip Channel midway between Pollock Rip and Shovelful light vessels. Under instructions of September 26, 1912 the Hydrographer made a careful examination of this channel, but found no indication of an 18-foot shoal spot in the position reported. An examination of an 18-foot sounding shown on the chart just to the southwestward developed a least depth of 14 feet, and it appears probable that this is the shoal that the Kershaw struck and not some new shoal to the

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND OEODETIO SURVEY.

25

톘orth.ward. Many vessels were observed passing dangerously close to this shoal, the position of which was determined under date of September 24, 1912. The lighthouse inspector at Boston had reported that Shovelful Shoal was extending to the southward and Handkerchief Shoal to the eastward and that the passage between the shoals was so nearly closed as to be unsafe without local knowledge, and he recommended that the channel be closed to navigation. ~ubsequently the Bureau of Lighthouses ordered the removal of the i:.iuoys marking this channel.  The alleged shoaling in the channel to the Pollock Rip gas and whistling buoy reported by the master of the Jumata was investigated, but no evidence of such shoaling was discovered. A least depth of 24 feet, reduced, was found close to the buoy and one of 21 feet just inside the buoy. A course laid 300 feet off the outer buoy will not put a vessel in anything like 18 feet of water. The master of the Juniata stated that when the vessel struck the buoys were to the eastward of their subsequent position and it is probable that she touched the extreme Western end of t~e broken part of Pollock Rip instead of an obstruction in the channel. . In January, while on her way to the coast of North Carolina, the Hydrographer determined the position of the wreck Julia Luckenb<f-Oh in Chesapeake Bay, and in North Landing River assistance was given to the schooner Sallie Purnell Beswick, which had run aground. The new channel from Pamlic.o Sound to Core Sound, past Harbor Island Bar Light was sounded out. . Hydrography executed in conjunction with the steamer Endeav_or mcluded a resurvey of the land and water areas lying between mendian 76 35' and a line from Bells Point and the ocean beach passing through Cowpen Island, except the southern extremity of Cape Lookout and part of Back Sound. A scheme of tertiary triangulation was executed forming a loop around Harker$ Island and extending to Cowpen Island and Bells Point as a base for future operations to the eastward in Core Sound. The topography and hydrography of Core Creek were also included in the work of this season. In cooperation with the steamer Endeavor search was made for a reported shoal 18 miles southwest of Cape Lookout. It was found that no shoal exists in the locality indicated. In the vicinity of Neuse River hydrographic work was done to determine the present location of shoals, spits, and bars, and the positions of all aids to navigation were determined from Wilkinsons Point down, including Adams Creek and Bay River to Bayboro. A new tertiary triangulation was executed joimng the work by Assistant Ritter m 1911 and running down the Neuse River to its mouth and connecting in Bay River with the triangulation of 1909 by the Corps of Engmeers, United States Army. From the western end of this a traverse line was run to Bayboro locating the day marks in the dredged channel. At Oriental a survey was made to show the bulkhead and the depths behind it. The triangulation of the United States Engineers in Adams Creek was connected with that by this party and a check base was measured for the purpose of verification. A topographic survey of Vandemere, N. C., a new town on Bay River, was made. This work was completed on June 14.

26

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVli:Y.
MASSACHUSETTS, RHODE ISLAND, SOUTH CAROLINA, AND GEORGIA.
[llilAAO WINliTON.]

SUMMARY OF BESULT8.-Trlangulatlon: 176 square miles of area covered, 8 beacons built (heights 25 and 40 feet), 41 stations In supplemental scheme occupied for horizontal measures, 24 geographic positions determined.

Between August 26 and November 1 a revision 톣as made of the triangulation of Narragansett Bay, R. I. Nearly all of the old stations along the western passage in Narragansett Bay, between Narragansett Pier and 'Vickford, were readily recovered so as to be available for use by the hydrographic party on the Coast and Geodetic Survey steamer Endeavor upon arrival on September 10. Valuable information in regard to surveys and dredging in progress in Narraganset Bay and vicinity was obtained from the United States Engineers office at Newport. The stations of the triangulation by the United States Engineers were visited in company with a United States assistant engineer, and notes were mooe showing their condition. Preliminary arrangements were made with a view to permanently marking tliose stations at which only temporary marks had been placed.  A blue print showm~ a hydrographic survey of 'V"ickford Harbor and approaches includmg a dredged channel m the harbor was furnished by the United States Engmeers. The search for old triangulation stations was extended over Narragansett Bay, Providence River, Hope Bay, and Sakonnet River; new wharves were located, and the positions of prominent objects useful as hydrographic signals or aids to navigation were determined. Several tidal bench marks were recovered and additional bench marks were established. During the season one chart agency at Providence and two at Newport were inspected. Thirty-four Coast and Geodetic Survey triangtilation stations and 42 triangulation stations established by the United States Engineers were recovered, and supplementary marks were established and supplementary descriptions in the case of the Coast and Geodetio Survey stations were prepared. Two new Coast and Geodetic Survey triangulation stations were established, and 26 were found to have been destroyed. Ten stations of the triangulation by the United States Engineers were found to have been destroyed. The locations of 26 lighthouses and 1 beacon were reported unchanged. One lighthouse and 3 beacons were found to have been destroyed. The positions of 2 lighthouses and 4 beacons were determined. Nine prominent objects, previously determined, were recovered. Ten such objects were found to have been destroyed. Twenty-nine such objects were determined in position. The office of the United States Engineers at Boston was visited and useful information was o톌tained in regard to surveys by the United States Engineers in the vicinity of Newburyport, Mass. Work was closed for the season on November 16. The chart agencies at Providence and Newport, R. I., were inspected during the progress of field work in the localities mentioned. The determmation of the positions of buoys and beacons and of prominent objects useful as aids to navigation in the vicinity of

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

27

톁avannah, Ga., which had been begun by Mr. R. R. Lukens was continued after March 26 by Mr. Isaac Winston. . Information in regard to beacons and. buoys was obtain~d from ~he ~ighthouse inspector at Charleston, and in regard to the triangulation m ihe vicinity data were obtained from the office of the United States Engineers at Savannah. Three old triangulation stations of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, viz, Fort Jackson 3, South Base, and Proctor were recovered, and from these a scheme of triangulation was extended sufficient to determine tl)e points required. The geographic positions of 10 prominent objects1were determined in addition to completing the scheme of triangulation begun by Mr. Luken~. Four of the triangulation stations used by the United States Engineers were recovered and marked. Blue prints showing the condition of the wharves at Savannah were obtained and other data collected for use in the correction of the charts. In April the chart agency of the Coast and Geodetic Survey at Savannah, Ga., was inspected, the number of Charts, Tide Tables, and Coast Pilots checked, and out of date or damaged publications returned to the office at Washington. Between April 13 and June 12 the triangulation of Port Royal Sound and North Edisto River was revised. A number of beacons were erected and their positions determined for the nse of the Lighthouse Service in locating aids to navigation. A beacon 40 feet in height was erected on Hilton Head south of the entrance to Port Royal Sound, and one on Capers Island north of the entrance. The beacon on Hilton Head was erected over the triangulation station Hilton established in 1900. The triangulation station on Capers Island established in 1900 has been destroyed. The beacon was erected on the southwest end of the island as it exists at present, and its geographic position was determined from three old stations. This determination places the beacon about 1  n:iile outside the shore line shown on the charts, corresponding to a sunilar change in the position of the channel over the bar since the survey was made. In connection with this work five of the old triangulation stations were recovered, two found to have been destroyed, and one new station was established. In the vicinity of Helena Sound two beacons 40 feet high were erected, one on the south shore of Tripp Inlet south of the entrance and one on the south end of Edisto Island north of the entrance. One beacon 25 feet in height was erected on Marsh Island in .Coosaw River. The old triangulation station on Tripp Inlet has been destroyed and the beacon is built over a new statiori, Tripp 2. On Edisto Island the beacon was built over station Point, established in 1902. The beacon on Marsh Island was built over a new station, Marsh. In this work four old triangulation stations were established and three stations were found to have been destroyed. !n the vicinity of North Edisto River three beacons 25 feet in height were constructed. No triangulation stations were available near two of these points, and their geographic positions remain to be determined . .Much information was obtained concerning the condition of other triangulation stations in this region.

28

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY. MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW YORK.

[ ', L. W ABNER.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Trlangulatlon: 12 signal poles erected, 25 stations occupied for horizontal measures In supplemental scheme, 26 geographic p<ililtlons determined.

In January and February the positions of two wireless telegraph towers in Boston, Mass., one l!-t 131 State Street and the other at the corner of Washington and Sumner Streets, were determined, and also that of a smafl 톣ireless telegraph pole at 126 State Street. At Nantucket, Mass., the location of the wireless masts at Siasconset was determined. At Coney Island, N. Y., the position of the Marconi wireless mast was located, and a similar determination was made of the wireless tower at Sayville and of the wireless mast at Sagaponack, both on Long Island. . A number of aids to navigation in the vicinity of Great Peconic Bay, Long Island, were determined in position for the Bureau of Lighthouses and also a number of points for use in the survey of a new channel between Robins Island and Cow N eek. In this work four old triangulation stations were recovered and o.bserved upon and two of them occupied. Five new stations were occupied, observations of horizontal angles made, and signals erected. Seven other points were determined as tertiary triangulation stations but not occupied, and four other points were sufficiently well deter. mined for the purposes of a hydrographic survey.
CONNECTICUT AND NEW YORK.

[H. P. RITTER.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Topography (chart revision): 6 square miles of area surveyed, 18 miles of general coast line, 10 miles of roads. 1! topographic sheets finished. Hydrography: 0.5 square mile of area covered, 14.5 miles run while sounding, 139 positions determined, 657 soundings, 2 tide stations established, 8 bench marks established, 12 buoys located, 1 hydrographlc sheet finished.

During the first half of the fiscal year the to:pographic revision of Chart 269 (Stamford Harbor to Little Captam Island) was completed, and the revision of Chart 270 (Little Captain Island to Rye Neck) begun. About one-quarter of the field work for the revision of that chart was completed by the end of December.  The officer engaged on this work was called on to af pear as an expert witness before the superior court of the State o New York in regard to certain topographic surveys by the Coast and Geodetic Survey.  He also was temporarily in charge of the office of the inspector at New York for short periods on several occasions. Chart revision work was continued until the latter part of June. In April an examination was made of a reported rock in East River, N.Y. A hydrogra:phic survey was made to locate the newly dredged channel between Little and Great Peconic Bays. In connection with this work a tide staff was erected and tide observations were recorded

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

29

between May 12 and June 12. The positions of the buoys in톞he channel were determined. Thi~ work was completed June 15 and  arran~ements were .made for beginnin~ a series of current observations in the Potomac River in cooperatl?n with certain.investigations undertaken by the United States Public Health Service relating to the pollution of the river water by sewage.
RHODE ISLAND.

[H. A. SEBAN.]

In August, 1912, the positions of five post lights temporarily placed on ~he breakwater at Point Judith, R. I., were determined by triangulat10n, using the line Point Judith Lighthouse to North Light, Block Island, as a base. The breakwater was at that time beins: repaired and all the beacons werejost lights placed there temporarily. All of these were determine in position as well as the wireless tower, and an angle required by the wire drag party was observed.
RHODE
ISLA:~m,

J\IARYLAND, AND NORTH CAROLINA.

[J. B. BOUTELLE, Commanding Steamer Endeavor.]

SUMMARY OF BEBULTs.-Trlangulation: 191 square miles of area covered, 10 old statiens recovered, 9 new stations selected, 35 signals built, 22 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 68 geographic positions determined. Topography: 24.5 square miles of area surveyed, 90.5 miles of general coast, 70 mlles of shore line of creeks, 1 topographic sheet finished. Hydrography: 161.7 square miles of urea covered, 2,025.4 miles run while soundi킽, 11.468 positions determined, 142,720 soundings, 6 tide stations established, 4 hydrographic sheets finished .

.Between July 1 and August 28 the party on the steamer Endeavor continued hydrographic work in Chesapeake Bay in. the area from Kedges Strait to Barren Island, the sounding lines extending from the shore to beyond the 4-fnthom curve. Lines were run approximately parallel with the shore line and about 100 meters apart and crossed at every 400 meters. No considerable changes were found to have occurred since the previous surveys. Between September 11 and November 15 the party on the steamer Endeavor was engaged in the revision of the hydrography of Nar ragansett Bay, R. I. Signals were erected and determined in position over the area extending through the western passage from Whale Rock Lighthouse to Hope Island. Tide gauges were established at West Jamestown, Dutch Harbor, and at Wickford and connected with the old Coast and Geodetic Survey bench mark at Jamestown and with one another. Various new wharves, a small portion of the shore line; and a number of hydrographic signals were determined with the plane table. Sounding lines were run north and south approximately 100 meters apart and crossed at intervals of about 200 meters, and in places where further examinntion was found necessary lines were run 50 meters or a less distance apart.

80

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Considerable change in the depths and contours was found in the southern end of the Western Passage. Numerous uncharted rocks were located near the shore line and a ledge with a depth of 23 feet on it was found near the middle of the channel near Plum Beach Lighthouse. On the northwest side of Hope Island is a very dangerous rock, with from 6 to 8 feet of water on it, on the eastern side of the channel. Several vessels have struck this rock. A recently discovered rock with 8 feet of water on it was located on the north side of the entrance to Wickford Harbor south of White Rock Beacon. This rock has been marked by a red spar buoy. The steamer Endeavor began work on the coast of North Carolina in the vicinity of Beaufort on January 11. After several old stations had been found and signals erected over the area covered by the survey, the triangulation was extended to the western end of Harker's Island, up North River and into Bogue Sound to a point 1 or 2 miles west of Morehead City. Topography and hydrography were then begun over the same area, the topography consisting mainly of shore line. Very little change was found to have ta.ken place since the former surveys except in the vicinity of Beaufort Inlet and the channels leading into that inlet. One shoal was formed, an extension of Shark Shoal on the east side of the channel between Morehead City and the inlet having but 5 feet upon it where the surveys by the United States Engineers in 1908-9 show about 21 feet. On the south side of the channel leading from the inlet톞oward Back and Core Sounds there was a channel of 12 to 14 feet in 1908 which has since filled up to 7 feet, at low water. The currents in the vicinity of the inlet are very strong and the sea breaks heavily over these shoals and often across the channels causing frequent changes both in depth and location. During January and February a dredge was at work on the inlet bar making a 20-foot channel over it. Soundings taken April 21 and 22, 1913, show a least depth Of 17 feet over. this bar. The dredged channels leading from Beaufort Harbor were sounded as far as their junction at Russell Creek Light, and thence continued into Core Creek by the party on the steamer Hydrographer. All lights and range beacons were determined in position. On April 17 the Endeavor an~ the Hydrographer made a search for a 2-fathom shoal reported 6 miles west-southwest of Cape Lookout Shoals buoy. Lines of soundings were run over an area of 2 miles or more in the supposed location of the shoal and sufficiently to entirely disprove the existence of such an obstruction. Cape Lookout Shoals buoy and Cape Lookout Lightship were determined in position, the latter being_jound 3 miles east and one-half mile north of its charted position. Work was closed in this vicinity on April 24. On May 27 work was begun at Point Judith, R. I., for a survey of the Harbor of Refuge and vicinity. The necessary triangulation points having been established, the shore line topography was run by plane table on a scale of 1/5,000 from Point Judith on the east to Rocky Point on the west of the breakwater. A tide gauge was set on the inside of the breakwater near Point Judith and connected with a bench mark of the United States Engineers and the Coast and Geodetic Survey.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

31

Sounding lines were run outside of the breakwater 100 meter! apart for about 1 mile south and around Point Judith on the east to Rock Point on the west. Inside the breakwater the lines of soundings were run 50 meters apart, special attention being given to the character of the bottom.  On June 19 work was resu"med on the resurvey of Narragansett Bay. Search for old stations and signal building were ~gun but the work was interrupted for the purpose of making certam necessary repairs to the vessel.
RHODE ISI..AND AND NEW YORK.

IE. F. DICKINS.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Topography: 1 square mile of nrea surveyed, 5 miles of general coast line surveyed, 1 topographic sheet finished. Hydrography: 1! sqpure miles of urea covered, 65 miles run while sounding, 747 positions . determined, 1,398 soundings made, 1 tidal station established, 1 bydrographlc l!lheet finished.

An. officer of the Survey has been engaged during the year on inspection duty for the region included between Narragansett and Delaware Bays. He was temporarily deta,ched in July to make a survey in the vicinity of Hog Island, R. I. The duties of the inspector are to obtain information fo_r the correction of Charts Notices to Mariners, and other publications of the Surv~y; to furnish information in regard to charts, sailing directions, and tide:s; to receive and ship instruments for the use of field/a~ies; to keep m touch with the maritime public and navigators an to find out their ne~ds. In July a hydrographic resurvey was made of the channel between ~Iog Island, Bristol Island, and Rhode Island in Narragansett Bay, including Hog Island Shoal, on which the U. S. S. Louuw/ru:t had recently grounded, and which was reported to have extended to the southward since the last survey. The shore line of the adjacent portions of the islands was rerun and the whole area sounded over. The results of the resurvey establish the fact that an extension of Hog Island Shoal to the southward has taken place, and in view of this condition recommendation was made that the buoy marking this obstruction be moved to the southern extremity of the shoal.
NEW YORK, NEW JERSEY, AND PENNSYLVANIA.

[C. M. CADE.]

In January determinations were made of the positions of wireless stations and prominent objects useful as aids to navigation, as follows : In New York City: Marconi Wireless Station on Wanamaker Building determined by triangulation, Telefunken Wireless Station on tower of Trinity Building determined by triangulation, two t?wers on Bush Terminal Co.'s Building determined by triangulation, and the former station of the United Wireless Co., at 42 Broadway, determined approximately. In Philadelphia: Two towers on Wanamaker Building determined t-0pographic11lly. In Chester, Pa., a tall chimney below Marcus Hook determined by triangulation.
~legraph

32

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In Camden, N. J., the United Wireless Station (abandoned) on tall water tank at New York Ship Yards was determined approximately. At Cape May, N. J. 1 the position of the Marconi Wireless Station was determined by triangulation.
NEW YORK, NEW JERSEY, PENNSYLVANIA, DELAWARE, MARYLAND, VIRGINIA, GEORGIA, FLORIDA, ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI, AND LOUISIANA.
[W. E. PABKEB.]

SUMMARY oF REBULTB.-Triungulutlon: 25 square mlles of areu covered, 39 stations in supplemental scheme occupied for horizontal measures, 54 geographic positions determined.

Between October 30 and November 9, with the permission of the Bureau of Lighthouses, apparatus for making current observations was installed on eight light vessels between Fire Island Light, off New York Entrance, and Winter Quarter Shoal, off the coast of Virginia. Observers on each of the vessels visited were instructed in the method of making the observations required. Between January 13 and February 17 the positions of wireless telegraph stations were determined by triangulation at Norfolk and Virginia Beach, Va., Savannah, Ga., and at Jacksonville, Palm Beach, Knights Key, and Tampa, Fla. At Fernandina, Fla., the automatic tide gauge was repaired and the tide staff connected by leveling with bench marks in the town. Between February 18 and March 15 a trij?:onometric determination was made of the positions of aids to navigation in Tampa Bay 11nd of such natural and artificial objects on the shores of the bay as may be useful to navigators or to members of the Lighthouse Service in placing buoys. On March 16 an examination of the Gulf coast was begun in order to obtain data for an Inside Route Pilot of the waters to the westward of Key West, Fla. The coast harbors and inland passages were traversed between Tampa, Fla., and New Orleans, La. The route was covered thoroughly and all places that could be entered safely with the launch, that served to transport the party, were examined. A second inspection was made of the tide gauge at Fernandina, Fla., which had been accidentally damaged. Field work was closed on May 8.
NEW JERSEY, PENNSYLVANIA, DELAWARE, V.IRGINIA, AND NORTH CAROLINA.

[J. R. BENTON.)

STATIONS occUPIED.-Delaware: Clayton (or Smyrna), Delaware City, Middletown, Newcastle, and Seaford. New Jersey: Berlin, Elmer, Moorestown, Swedesboro, Williamstown, Woodbury, and Woodstown. North Carolina: Enfield, Franklinton, Littleton, Raleigh, Wake Forest, and Whitakers. Pennsylvania: Avondale (or Kennett Square) and Medin.

During the season between August 2 and September 11 and between June 16 and 30 'magnetic observations were made at the stations named all of which were new stations except Seaford, Del., and Raleigh, N. C. The stations were permanently marked. At Swedesboro observations were made over a triangulation station. At Moorestown, N. J., a meridian line was run and temporarily marked.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
NEW JERSEY AND PENNSYLVANIA.

38

[STERMAN FORNEY.] SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Reconnolssance: 14 square miles of area covered, 198 lines of lntervlslblllty determined, 99 points selected for scheme. Triangulation: 14 square miles of area covered, 93 signal poles erected, 78 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 221 geographic positions determined. Topography: 22.75 square miles of area surveyed, 57.5 miles of shore line of rivers, 15.5 miles of shore line of creeks, 1.75 miles of shore line of ponds, 109.25 miles of roads, railroads, and trolley lines, 2 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography : 2 tide stations established.

The survey of the Delaware River from House of Correction, Pa., to Trenton, N. J., which was in progress at the beginning of the fiscal year was completed on February 28. The work done includes the necessary tertiary triangulation and the topography on a scale of 1/40,000, included on two topographic sheets. Having closed work on the Delaware River this party began a resurvey of Newark Bay, N. J., on March 28. Three of the triangulation stations used in the triangulation of greater New York were recovered, viz, Bogart, Summerfiel~ M. ~ Church, and Bergen Point and from these a scheme of tertiary triangulation was completed 'from Bergen Point up Newark Bay in~o the entrance of the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers. The topographic resurvey at Bergen Point was begun.
DELAWARE, MARYLAND, VIRGINIA, SOUTH CAROLINA, GEORGIA, AND FLORIDA.

[W. C. HoDGKINS, Commandlni.: Steitmer Bache.] SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Trinngulatlon: 136 square ruiles of nren covered, 17 signal poles erected, 21 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 15 geographic positions determined. Magnetic work: 4 sea stations nt which slilp was completely swung. Topography: 43 miles of general const line surveyed, 3 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography: 3,677 squnre miles of area sounded, 2,500 miles run while sounding. 5,289 positions determined, 82,795 soundings, 2 tide stations established, 4 hydrographic sheets finished.

On July 1, 1912, the steamer Baehe was at Brunswick, Ga., engaged in the offshore hydrography needed to supply deficiencies in the charts of the coast from St. Andrew Sound on the south to Sapelo Island on the north with some further work to the northward and eastward off Tybee and Port Royal entrances. The hydrography of that region was continued until August 17, when the Bache proceeded to Norfolk~ Va., taking soundings between Port Royal and Charleston entrances. An examination of the vessel at Norfolk showed the necessity for extensive repairs which were made at Boston in September and October. The next work done by the Baehe was an examination of the area to the northeastward of Winter Quarter Shoal light vessel, in which dangers were reported to exist. A tide staff was established on Dela. ~are Breakwater and an observer placed in charge. Two floating signals were moored on a line extending northward from the light ves~! and with that vessel these were used as sjgnals for locating the positions of the soundings. It was found that the reported dangers
14877-18---8

34

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

do not exist in the area examined and in question. Work in that region was closed December 7 and the vessel then began an examination at Chesapeake entrance for a shoal lump reported by the Virginia Pilots' Association as existing about 3 miles to the northward and eastward of Cape Henry. The examination of the localitv proved that no such shoal exists.  Offshore hydrography was then resumed on the coast of North and South Carolina. On January 4 the Bache proceeded to the Savannah River, where field work was begun by settms: up a tide staff at Fort Screven wharf, Tybee Island, and connecting it with the established bench marks. From that time until March 12 the party was engaged in running lines of soundings generally in an east and west direction and from 2 to 5 miles apart to develop the area off the coast of Georgia, within which few soundings had .Previously been obtained although the depths are not great, and lymg northward of Sapelo Sound and outside of the belt of closely developed hydrography. . Beginning at points about 5 miles offshore, it was generally found necessary to run lines from 20 to 30 miles long and only occasionally near the eastern end of a line did the depth reach 20 fathoms. On March 12 the Bache sailed from Charleston to the position of the wreck of the British steamship Lugano, stranded on Long Reef, Fla., to the southward of Fowey Rocks, and to survey the north end of the Florida Reefs off Miami. The position of the wreck of the Lugano was determined on March 15. The hydrography of the north end of Florida Reefs was completed on May 26 in spite of unfavorable weather conditions. For this work it was necessary to determine by triangulation .a few additional, stations and to check the positions of some of the beacons which had been destroyed by hurricanes and afterwards rebuilt. The shore line of the outer coast" from Cape Florida northward to latitude 25 50' was resurveyed by plane table while the hydrography was in progress. After closing work off Miami the Bache at once proceeded to the vicinity of Jupiter Inlet where search was made for reported shoals off that inlet and off St. Lucie Island. The reports of dangers in these localities were found to be erroneous. The position of a conspicuous stand pipe at Robe Sound was determined by triangulation. The regular work of the party on the coast of Georgia and South Carolina wa8 resumed on April 9 and continued until June 14, by which date the hydrography within the limits assigned to the vicinity of the shoals off Cape Romain was completed. Additional work of triangulation in Ossabaw Sound was also done to fix the position of a sea coast signal on the north end of Ossabaw Island. Work was closed June 15 and the vessel proceeded to Boston for repairs.
MARYLAND.
[GEORGE HARTNELL and SAMUEL G. TOWNSEND.]

At the magnetic observatory at Cheltenham, Md., the recording instruments were kept in contmuous o:peration throughout the year. The absolute observations for declination, horizontal intensity, and

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

35

dip were made as usual. Time from sun observations was taken at convenient intervals.  Special observations were made for determining the moment of inertia of magnetic No. 26 for the comparison of ~rth inductors, to detennine effect of adjustment, and to place the mductor in the meridian. The seismograph was in continuous operation except for a delay of a few days for clock repairs. Some necessary repairs were made to .the observatory buildings.
VIRGINIA.

[0. W. FEBGusoN, Commanding Schooner Matchless.] SUMMABY OF RESULTS.-Reconnolssnnce: 55 square mllcs of arcu covered, 405 lines of lntervlslblllty determined, 155 points selected for scheme. Base lines: 3, secondary, measured. Triangulation: 55 square miles of area covered, 154 signal plies erected, 74 observing scafl'o!ds and tripods bullt (with an average height of 6 feet), 162 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 8 old stations of United Stutes Engineers recovered, 162 geographic positions determined. 텹eveling: 22 elevations determined by leveling, 17.i miles of levels run. .AzlInuth: 1 station occupied for observations of azimuth on 1 night. Topography: 61.5 square miles of aren surveyed, 118.3 miles of shore line of rivers, 76.4 miles of creeks, 134.2 mlles of roads und railroads, 4 topographic sheets finished. llydrography: 16.3 square miles of area sounded, 331.9 miles run while sounding, 3,063 positions determined, 14,867 soundings, 10 tide stations established, 5 current stations occupied, 5 hydrographlc sheets finished.

During the first half of the fiscal year, after the completion of repairs to the vessel at Baltimore, the schooner M atalUess was employed on the survey of the Pamunkey River, Va., this work including triangulation, topography, and hydrography. The triangulation was beirun a few miles above Westpoint at stations Creek and Gas and carried to N orthbury Land mg. Above N'orthbury Landing a meander line was run to 5 miles above New Castle at the head of navigation. Points for the topography were located by sextant angles where, on account of the dense undergrowth, the plane table could not be used. T he limits of marsh and high ground were located; also all roads, railroadsz creeks, sloughs, fences, and buildings near the river. Tlle  topography was completed to the limits of the survey. The hydrography of the river was completed to the head of the survey 5 miles above New Castle, all important features being thoroughly developed. . n-rTide observations were made at Gloucester Point, Morgans Wharf, n estpoint. Lester Manor, White House, New Castle, and Carters ~andmg, Northbury Landing, and tidal bench marks were establshed. Current observations were made on three davs. LeMagnetic declination was observed at four stations, viz, Westpoint, b ~er Manor, Northbury Landing, at a station above New Castle .oridge, and at another below that bridge . .h The survey of the Pamunkey River was afterwards completed to the ead of navigation 57 miles above W estpoint. Some levels were run in Richmond to connect the tidal bench ~arks with a permanent bench mark of the Coast and Geodetic urvey.

l

36

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The hydrographic survey of the south branch of Elizabeth River, Va., from the naval magazine to the Chesapeake and Albemarle Canal lock was the next work undertaken. This survey was completed by April 5. In the course of this work a line of levels 12 miles in length was run to connect the various tidal bench marks in this locality, and tide observations were made during the progress of the survey. The survey of the eastern branch of Elizabeth River, including the triangulation, topography, and hydrography, was nearly completed at the close of the year. The hydropaphic survey was carried into all creeks available for boat navigation. .  .Field work was temporarily suspended in June and the Matchless was taken to Baltimore for repairs.
VIRGINIA AND NORTH CAROLIN A.

[H. C. GRAVES, Commnnding Stenmer Hydrographer.] SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Triangulation: 2 stations occupied for horizontal measures. Magnetic work: 5 sea stations occupied for magnetic declination. Topography: 1 square mile of area covered, 9.25 miles of general coast line run. Hydrography : 1,689 soundings made.

From July 1 to August 13 the party on the steamer H ydrographer was eng-aged in coast pilot work on the coasts of North Carolina and Virgima for the revis10n of Coast Pilot, Part VII, :from Cape Henry to Key West. Hydrographic examinations were made at Winyah Bay, Cape Fear River, Beaufort Harbor, and the intervening coast. A topographic and hydrographic survey was made of Lookout Bight, N. C. Coast pilot work was done on the sounds and tributaries between Beaufort, N. C., and Norfolk, Va. Three uncharted shoals were located and a number of lighthouses and buoys in these waters were determined in position. The ship was swung at 32 headings to determine compass deviation at 5 points along the coast.
VIRGINIA, lrnNTUCl{Y, TENNESSEE, AND ARKANSAS.

[DON C. SOWERS.] STATIONS OCCUPIED.-Arkansas: Arkadelphia, Arkansas City, Ashdown, Brinkley, Eldorado, Fordyce, Hamburg, Hampton, Hot Springs, Lnke City, Lew!svllle, Magnolla, Malvern, Nashville, Prescott, Stuttgart, Varner, and Washington. Kentucky: Albany, Alexandria, Bedford, BurkesvlHe, Burllngton, Carrollton, Falmouth, Greenup, Hodgenville, Independence, Maysville, Morgantown, Mount Olivet, Mount Vernon, Newcastle, Nicholasville, Tompkinsville, Vanceburg, Warsaw, Wllllamsburg, and Winchester. Tennessee: Byrdstown, Carthage, Cellna, Dover, Gainesboro, Humboldt, Lebanon, Livingston, and Sneedville. Virginia: Gloucester, Heathvllle, Independence, Isle of Wight, King William, King and Queen, Lancaster, Lynchburg, Mathews, Montross, Saluda, Tappahannock, and Warsaw.

Between July 1 and November 30 magnetic observations were made at the above-named stations in Arkansas, Kentucky, Virginia, and Ten.nessee. Five old stations were occupied. All but six of the stations occupied were marked by stone posts with brass plates set in the top. A

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

87

few were lettered U. S. C. & G. S. 1912. In most cases the posts were set so as to project 2 or 3 inches above the surface of the ground. The average cost per station, including the observer's salary, was
$24.75.
NORTH CAROLINA.

[H. A.

SEBAN.)

Under instructions dated February 6 determinations were made by triangulation of the positions of 13 permanent beacons or range lights on Cape Fear River from the mouth of the river to Reeves Point. A scheme of triangulation was carried up Cape Fear River as far as Reeves Point. In this scheme the stations established and marked by the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, were used whenever practicable. Two new stations were established.  The position of the wreck of the Condor off Carolina Shoal Beach was determined, and various changes in topographic details were noted for the correction of the charts.  Information concerning tidal bench marks was obtained from the United States Engineers' office at Wilmington. A blue print showing the route of the Wilmington, Brunswick & Southern R. R. from Navassa to Southport was furnished by Mr. Z. W. Whitehead of Wilmington, N. C., the builder of the road. The position of the shore end of the 300-foot terminal dock at Southport under construction by that road was determined.
GEORGIA.

[R. R. LUKENS.]

The location of aids to navigation from Warsaw Sound northward Was begun February 12. A reconnaissance was made, old stations recovered, and signals erected and the occupation of stations begun by February 24. This work was ~ompleted and the revision of the triangulation of the upper Savannah River begun on March 10. The old triangulation station on Fort Oglethorpe was not recovered. A new station was established close to the old location. The line "Proctor" to "R. R. Draw" was used as a base, and a scheme laid out to connect with the wireless tower at Savannah and also with several stations established by the Corps of Engineers, United States Army. Signals were erected. and five stations were occupied when Work was closed in accordance with instructions.  Two beacons were erected at the mouth of W"arsaw Sound for use b.y the officers of the Bureau of Lighthouses' in determining the positions of buoys off the sound . .The positions o~ the new lights at the mouth of the Savannah River were determmed.
GEORGIA AND FLORIDA.

[C. M. CADE.]

SUMMARY oF BESULTB.-Base lines: 1 secondary traverse 8 miles in length measured. Triangulatlon: 10 signal poles erected, 6 permanent beacons erected, ~lobserving tripod and scatrold bullt and 4 repaired (average height 16 feet), statlons in maln scheme occupied for horizontal measures, 72 geographic Posi tlons determined.

38

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SVRVEY.

Between February 10 and May 31 the geographic positions of e. number of aids to navigation and permanent objects on the shores of the St. Johns River were determined, using the triangulation of the 톃nited 'States Engineers, as adjusted to the datum of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. A hired launch was used for the transportation of the party. Many of the old stations were found standing, so that little signal building was required. In all, there were determined in position 32 pile lights and day marks, 14 permanent structures carrying lights, and 13 objects on shore, such as water tanks, chimneys, houses, etc., that will probably be available for many years. The stations along the St. Johns River were marked by iron pipes driven into the ground. After the completion of this work the determination of positions of aids to navigation and prominent objects in St. Catherines Sound, Ga., was undertaken. For buoy work off St. Catherin.es three lar~e tripod signals, built by the steamer Bache, were determined in' position by means of a traverse line 3 miles in length. The next work undertaken was the determination of ,points for Sapelo Bar. An old station of the Coast and Geodetic Survey was recovered and marked close to a signal erected by the party on the steamer Bache to serve as the northern object. The quarantine station off the north end of Blackbeard Island, or a signal erected by the BMhe on the northeast r,oint, is available for use as the center object. A third signal 2.25 miles to the southward was erected and determined. St. Andrews Sound was the next point visited. Here two signals were built and determined for use in locating buoys, Little Cumberland Island Lighthouse forming the third point. Four three-pile day marks in the sound were also determined. At St. Simons Sound use was made of two signals of the. United States Engineers. On Jekyl Island a signal which had been used as a transit station was boarded up, concreted, and marked for use in locating buoys on the bar. ,st. Simons Light may be used as the center object. A new signal was built and determined on the south point of Postells Creek on St. Simons Island, and three lights in St. Simons Sound were determined.
GEORGIA, ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI, AND ARIZONA.
[OSCAR

H.

GAARDEN.]

. STATIONS OCCUPIED.-Alabama:

Eutaw, Haynesville, Moblle, and Pratts

Arizona: Tucson. Georgia: Dawson, Georgetown, and Vienna. M'8 sissippi: Collfns, Hattiesburg, Lucedale, New Augusta, Paulding, and

ville.

Raleigh.

Between July 1 and August 12 magnetic observations were made at the stations mentioned by the observer named. Meridian lines were established at the stations marked with asterisks. From August 12 to November 1 Mr. Gaarden was at the magnetic observatory at Tucson, Ariz., engaged in bringing up to date the accumulated records and in instructing in his duties the new observer placed in charge of that observatory.

REPORT OF STIPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEOI>ETIO SURVEY.
LOUISIANA.

39

[J. H. PETERS.]
SUKMABY oF BESULTs.-Triangulatlon: 692 square miles of area covered, 32 signal poles erected, 29 observing tripods and scatrolds built, 33 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 8 stations occupied for vertical measures, 106 geographic positions determined, 5 elevations determined trigonometi-ically. In January the positions of 5 radio stations along the Gulf coast were determined by triangulation.

Between February 26 and May 30 a revision was made of the triangulation of Atchafalaya, Cote Blanche, and Vermilion Bays and to determine the geogra.P.hic position of Timbalier Light. Owing to the impracticability of recovering a. sufficient number of the old points it was found necessary to lay out ari entirely new scheme of triangulation throughout this region. Beginning with the line "S. W. Reef"-" Belle Isle 1999," with " Deer Island 1855 " reference mark as the third point the triangulation was extended eastward one figure to Point Au Fer and thence westward seven figures through Atchafayala, East Cote Blanche, West Cote Blanche, and Vermilion Bays to Southwest Pass and the mouth of the Vermilion River. Ten supplementary figures were constructed to control the small bays and bayous adjacent to the main scheme. Of the J?revious triangulation only one station, in addition to the three previously mentioned, was recovered and in that case the station mark had been moved so as to make its precise original location uncertain. This was station Cote Blanche 2, 1890. It was necessary to build tripods of an average height of 20 feet at every station in the scheme at which observations were taken. Stations and reference points located in marshy ground were marked by piles driven in the ground and capped with a drain pipe and the intervening space filled with cement. A brass disk was placed to indicate the center of the station. The mark extends about 2 feet above the ground. During the progress of the work connection was made with stations established by the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, and with those of a private survey adjacent to Atchafalaya Bay. Most of the old triangulation stations were found to have been destroyed by the receding of the shore line. Thirteen stations are known to have been destroyed, 5 others were searched for but not found, 17 new s~ations were esta~lished in the main scheme, 15 supplementary stations were established and 70 additional geographic positions were determined. The positions of several aids to navigation were determined and notes were furnished in regard to changes in shore line and depths for use in correcting the charts of the localities covered.
TEXAS.

[E. H. PAGENHABT.]

During the period between February 6 and May 6 a scheme of tertiary triangulation was completed between Isabel, Tex.; and Baffins Bay, Tex.

40

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

In this work as many of the old stations as practicable were recovered and marked, new stations supplementary to the old work were established where necessary to reach all parts of the area covered, and to connect with the stations established in 1912 south of Baffins Bny.  A small scheme was carried from old stations in the vicinity of Isabel north along the mainland and the off-lying islands as far as triangulation station Avoca 2. From this point the scheme spans the Laguna, which is about 5 miles wide, and extends northward to a connection with stations Salt Murdock, Griffin 2, and Shells 2 (Trueblood, 1912).  Work was next begun in Topo Bay and the observing was carried up the mainland to station Salt and thence down Padre Island to the i:;tation Nouvest. An extra station, New, was established to strengthen the scheme. Old station Avoca was not recovered and Avoca 2 marked by the 1912 party was used. The old stations recovered were Cameron, Fox, Colorado, Rifle, Lomalto, and Topo. Of these, Cameron and Topo had been remarked in 1905. The others were remarked. The old stations known to have been destroyed are Snipe, Armadillo, Cat, Pelican, Bonnet, Coyote, Black Hill, and probably Avoca and Indian. The new stations, Nouvest, Buoy, Gun, and Gap, established on Padre Island were marked only by timbers or planks set about 4 feet in the sand and projecting about 3 feet.
TEXAS, MISSOURI, AND OKLAHOMA.
[FRANK NEUMANN.]

STATIONS ocCUPIED.-Missouri: Charleston, Doniphan, Hillsboro, New Mad rid, St. Louis, Springfield, and Waynesvllle. Olclahoma: Altus, Durant, Frederick, Hobart, Hugo. Idabel, Madlll, Mangum, Mountain Park, Norman, Pauls Valley, Sulphur, Taloga, and Vinita. Tell!as: Angleton, Austin, Bay City, Bastrop, Beeville, Brenham, Brownwood, Bryan, Burnet, Cold Spring, Comanche, Columbus, Floresvllle, Giddings, Glen Rose, Goldthwaite, Hamilton. Hemphill, Huntsville, Kountze, Linden, Lockhart, Newton, Rockwall, Refugio, Richmond, San Augustine, Seguin, Sinton, and Woodville.

. The foregoing magnetic stations were occupied during the period 'from July 1 to November 15. Meridian lines were established at the stations marked with asterisks. At each station a complete set of magnetic observations were made and the latitude and longitude determined approximately. Charleston and Springfield Mo.; Pauls Valley, Mangum, and .Vinita. Okla.; and Austin and Beeville in Texas, were repeat stations.
INTERIOR STATES. MONTANA, NORTH DAKOTA, SOUTH DAKOTA, AND WYOMING.

[E. H. PAGENHABT.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Reconnoissance: Length of scheme 50 miles, 650 square miles of area covered, 19 lines of intervlslbllity determined, 44 points selected for scheme. Base lines, primary, length of, 10,600 meters. Triangulation : 8,158 square miles of area covered, 40 signal poles erected, 10 observing signals and scalfolds built (heights trom 8 to 60 feet), 80 stations ill main

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

41

scheme and 8 in supplemental scheme occupied for horizontal measures, 56 1:1tat1ons occupied for nfrtlcnl measures, 99 geographic positions determined, 63 elevations determined trigonometrically. These statistics include some work done in the spring of 1912.

The party engaged on the triangulation along the one hundred and fourth meridian from the Canadian boundary to the Black Hills had completed the section from North East Base to Marmon 1 a distance of about 40 miles, by June 30, 1912. During this period the Ambrose Base was measured and 12 stations, two of which were azimuth stations, were occupied. The remaining portion of the triangulation, from Marmon to station Laird, a distance of 290 miles, was continued between July 1 and December 3 to a junction at the figure Crow-Cambria-AlkaliInyankara-Laird, with the triangulation by party working north\vard from the thirty-ninth parallel, in Colorado. Azimuth observations were made at 7 stations, and the position of the Bowman longitude station was determined. Connection with other surveys was made at eight points. Most of the triangulation stations were occupied at night. Double-zenith distances were measured over all lines in the main scheme, with one exception; Nonreciprocal observations were made over three lines.
COLORADO, MONTANA, NEBRASKA, NORTH DAKOTA, SOUTH DAKOTA, AND WYOMING.
[GEORGE SUMMARY OF

D.

CoWIE

and

HABBY

A.

SERAN.]

BESULTB.-Longltude: 5 longitude stations occupied.

Between. August 29 and November 10 two cooperating parties determined the difference of longitude between Omaha, Nebr., and the following places: Mondak, Mont., Bowman, N. Dak., Provo, S. Dak., Wheatland, Wyo., and Watkins, Colo. The Coast and Geodetic Survey longitude station of 1907 on the Omaha High School grounds was used and it was connected by triangulation with the 1869 to 1882 land survey station, the new Omaha Hill School, and . with prominent landmarks in the vicinity.
COLORADO, WYOMING, SOUTH DAKOTA, AND TEX.AS.

[C. V.
SUMMARY OF

HODGSON.]

Bli:SULTs.-Reconnoissunce : 16 lines of intervisibtllty determined,

longitude, and azimuth work: 1 station for determination of longitude by exchange of telegraphic signals occupied on 3 nights, 11 stations occupied for observations of nzimuth, on 14 nights. These statistics Include work done ln May and June, 1912.

4 points selected for scheme, base lines; primary, length of, 14,559 meters. Triangulation: 10,505 square miles of area covered, 77 stations in muin scheme ond 12 in supplemental scheme occupied for hori:..ontal mensures, 79 stations occupied for vertical measures, 142 geographic positions determined, 142 elevations determined trlgonometrically. Leveling: 9 miles of levels run. Latitude,

At the beginning of the fiscal year the trian~lation along the ;:iouthern part of the one hundred and fourth meridian arc from the thirty-ninth parallel near Colorado Springs, Colo., to the Canadian

42

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

boundary had been extended southward from Guernsey, Wyo., to Cheyenne, Wyo. Work was continued after that date until its final completion on November 23. The weather conditions during the ~eater part of the season were unfavorable for rapid progress. Fog m the mountains and haze and smoke in the valleys greatly lessened the time available for observing.  At the slimth end of the work two of the reconnoissance lines were found to be obstructed, necessitating a change in the figures and a reconnoissance for new stations. The first entailed the reconnoissance for and occupation of one new station (Russell) and the reoccupation of one station for the new lines; but the second obstructed line, that from Morrison to Bison, made necessary the breaking up of the southernmost quadrilateral and a three-sided central-point figure, the establishment of three new stations, the reoccupation of two stations for new lines, and the substitution of the line Pikes Peak-Divide for the line Pikes Peak-Bison as a line common to the previous primary triangulation and the one hundred and fourth meridian work. A second observfog party under Mr. C. M. Cade was organized for work at the north end of the scheme without waiting for the completion of the work at the southern e;nd. Observing at the north end was not completed until October 4. During the period from October 1 to 8 a primary base line was measured at Provo, S. Dak. and azimuth was observed on two nights. From that time until the close of the season two separate observing parties were maintained. . On November 14 a junction was effected with the work of the party under Assistant E. H. Pagenhart working between the Canadian boundary and Guernsey, Wyo., the last stations occupied by the southern party being Crow and Cambria. Four stations near Cheyenne were reoccupied between November 20 and 23. Primary azimuths were measurt!d during the season at stations Ragged, Twin, Dewey, Bouldei:, Willow, W.atkins, a~d P]-ov<;>. Between February 24 and June 1 a primary triangulation was made from Alice, Tex., to the Rio Grande and along the Rio Grande from the ninety-eighth meridian to Point Isabel. Connection was . made with four reference points of the survey by the United States and Mexican Boundary Commission, but on account of disturbed conditions in Mexico the connection with the triangulation along the ninety-eighth meridian by the Mexican Geodetic Commission was not completed. During the period mentioned 34 priJnary stations were occupied and 3 azimuths were measured, or an averaete of more than 12 stations per month. During the month of April 15 stations were occupied. The reconnoissance for this work was executed and the signals erected by a separate party. This triangulation is 150 miles in length and covers approximately 1,800 square miles. Notwithstanding the fact that the climatic and other conditions were most favorable for raJ?id progress the completion of so extensive a scheme of triangulation m so short a time is worthy of remark as an achievement probably never before equaled in work of this character.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

48

On the completion of the necessary observations in the triangulation a determination was made of the telegraphic longitude at triangulation station Donna (Texas), using Austin as a base station. Mr. George D. Cowie cooperated in this work. Signals were exchanged on the nights of May 30, May 31, and June 1 with satisfactory results, and work was closed for the season.
COLORADO, NORTH DAKOTA, SOUTH DAKOTA, TEXAS, AND WYOMING.

[J. S.

BILBY.)

SuYMABY oF BESULTs.-Reconnolssance: Length of scheme 175 miles, 1,450 톝quare miles of area covered, 80 llnes of lntervlslb1llty determined, 36 points selected for main and 4 for supplemental scheme. Base lines: 1 (14,600 meters In length) prepared for measurement. Triangulation: 42 signal poles erected, 84 observing tripods and sca!Iolds built with average height of 43.02 feet, and 40 with heights from 4 to 60 feet; 24 superstructures, nvernge height 24 feet; 2 light stands, avernge height 10 feet.

The two parties organized in April, 1912, to build the signals and prepare for the observing parties the stations located by reconnoissance during the season of 1911 between the thirty-ninth parallel in the vicinity of Colorado Springs and the Canadian border, had made the following progress by J \lille 30. The northern party had reached 1Sentinel Butte, N. Dak., and had prepared a, base-line site and assisted in measuring the base at Ambrose N. Dak. During the same v.eriod the southern party had completed signal building from Manville, Wyo., southward to the vicinity of Colorado Springs. Work was continued after July 1 and by August 28 all of the stations had been prepared and the Provo base made ready for tape measurement. Stands or signals were built at 40 stations and each station marked. From September 1 to the close 0 the season in November the signalbuilding party cooperated with one of the parties engaged in triangulation so as to permit the maintenance of a double observing party. This work is noticed under another head. Between January 11 and June 10 a reconnoissance was made for a primary triangulation to extend from the vicinity of Alice, Tex., to the Rio Grande opposite the northern end of the scheme of triangulation extended along the ninety-eighth meridian by the Mexican Government, and also for a primary triangulation extending down the Rio Grande from the approximate location of the ninety-eighth meridian to Point Isabel, Tex. At the latter point :provision was made 즣r a connection with the primarY' triangulation m the vicinity of Point Isabel. The necessary signals were erected for the use of observing parties, and provision made for a connection with the scheme of triangulation, and also with four monuments of the topographic survey of the Rio Grande made by the International Boundary Commission, United States and Mexico. . The line Alice West Base-Wood with East Base as the third point was selected as the base from which to start the work, and the scheme follows 톑enerally the line of the railroad to the Rio Grande and Point Isabel. .At the latter place connections were made with West Base-Arista, East Base being used for the third point. Unsettled conditions in Mexico prevented the connection with the triangulation

44

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

along the ninety-eighth meridian done by the Geodetic Commission of Mexico. The signal building was conducted by a subparty during the' progress of the reconnoissance and afterwards by the full party. An observatory was built at Point Isabel longitude station.
TEXAS.
[WILLIAM BOWIE.]

In April the inspector of geodetic work proceeded to Texas for the purpose of inspecting the work of several triangulation parties operating in that State. Owing to unsettled conditions in Mexico the connection between the systems of triangulation by the Coast and Geodetic Survey in the United States and that executed by the Mexican Geodetic Commission was not completed, but such preliminary arrangements for that purpose as were possible were made. The several triangulation parties and the signal building- parties were visited and their work found to be in satisfactory condition.
COWRAOO, IOWA, KANSAS, l\IISBOURI, NEBRASKA, AND SOUTH DAKOTA.

[H. E. McCOMB.]
STATIONS OCOUPIED.-Oo'lorado: Central City, Golden, and Greeley. Iowa: Adel, Clarion, Des Moines, Estherv1Jle, Forest City, Humboldt (for Dakota City), Orange City, Rock Rapids, Sibley, nnd Toledo. Kansas: Leavenworth. Missouri: Grant City, Independence, Liberty, Oregon, Platte City; Richmond, RockJ)ort, Savannah, and St. Joseph. Nebraska: Beaver City, Lincoln, Madison, Nebraska City, and Trenton. South Dakota: Elk Point, Fairfax, and Yankton.

Magnetic observations were made at the stations named between July 1 and September 14 and between June 14 and June 30. Meridian lines were established at the stations indicated by asterisks. The s.tations were marked with stone posts marked with brass plates and sunk level with the ground. Old magnetic stations were occupied at Nebraska City, Nebr., Des Moines and Sibley, Iowa, and Yankton, S. Dak. Local surveyors displayed much interest in the work and requested copies of the observations.
NEVADA.
[JOHN H. PETERS.]

By July 1, 1912, the line of precise leveling eastward from San Francisco, Cal., had been extended to summit of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, a distance of 266 miles, leaving 323 miles to be completed in order to make the necessary connection at Beowawe, Nev. The work was continued eastward to Marmol, Washoe County, Nev., a station on the Southern Pacific Railway near the eastern point of the grade going into the mountains. This point was reached on July 13, 1912. The party then proceeded to the eastern end of the uncompleted portion of the line, and work was resumed at Beowawe, Nev.,

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

45

working westward, along the Southern Pacific Railway to Marmol,which point was reached on October 25, 1912. . Connection was made during the progress of the work with such bench marks of other surveys as could be conveniently reached. The permanent bench marks used were of two types, viz, first a brass disk bench mark set in permanent existing structures of concrete or masonry, and second a stone post 6 :feet long and 6 by 4 inches in its other dimensions, set in the ground and with 4 to 6 inches of its top projecting above ground. The usual brass disk was set with cement in the top of this stone with the top surface of the disk flush with the top of the stone. Along the portion of the line between San Francisco and Sacramento the average distance between bench marks was 2.2 miles. Over the remainder of the line it was 3.6 miles. A motor velocipede car and a hand car were used for the transportation of the party. From experience gained in this work it is concluded that the larger percentage of nonchecks on steep grades is due to atmospheric refraction caused by inequalities in temperature and that a very small percentage is due to the inclined footing of the rods.
ARIZONA.

[A. F.

BEAL,

0. H.

GAABDEN,

nnd

LLOYD

w.

WEED.].

Work at the magnetic observatory at Tucson, Ariz., was continued under the direction of Mr. L. 톣. Weed until September 18, when the 톍harge of the observatory was transferred to Mr. A. F. Beal. Mr. A. H. Gaarden was attached to the observatory from August 12 to November 1, and aided in instructing the new observer. The usual absolute determinations of declination and intensity were made, scale values determined, and meteorological observations recorded twice a day. The usual w톏ather Bureau reports were made daily. The magnetograph was kept in operation with but slight interruption, and a continuous record with the seismograph has been maintained. Disturbances were recorded and special rapid-rate observations with the magnetograph were taken on certain term days. Time observations were taken with the sextant and these were checked at various times by telephonic time signals and by observations of star transits. A meridian line 1,027.24 feet in length was established.
PACU'IC COAST. WASHINGTON.

[R. B. DEBJOKBON, Commanding Steamer Gedney.]

In November a detailed topographic and hydrographic survey was made at Tacoma, Wash., of the Milwaukee railroad docks and ships, the mouth of the Puyallup River, and the St. Paul Lumber Co.'s dock. This survey extended out to about the 20-fathom curve in Commencement Bay. A new light and a fog signal wete located. The tioal bench marks established in this work were connected by leveling with

46

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

the city bench marks. At Olympia, Wash., a survey was made of the water front and of the shoal waters at the head of Budd Inlet. Tides were observed and the elevation of bench marks determined. Four old triangulation stations were recovered and marked. The positions of several new wharves between Olympia and Seattle were determined and soundings were made alongside the wharves.
[F. H. HARDY.]

In March the positions of the wireless telegraph station at Friday Harbor, San Juan Island, Wash., were determined.
[H. A.
SERAN.]

Between May 27 and the close of June revision work for the correction of the existing surveys of Puget Sound, Wash., was in progress. This work includes determinations of the positions of wharves and prominent buildings in and around the principal ports. A resurvey of Semiahmoo Peninsula was made and the new wharves and prominent buildings in Bellingham were determined. The water front of Anacortes and the shore line of the southern end of Guernes Island were rerun. The wharves at Coupeville were located and a resurvey was made of Neah Bay, the new wharves at Port Angeles and Ediz Hook were determined, a resurvey was made of Point Wilson and arrangements were made to obtain copies of surveys by the Corps of Engi1:1eers, United States Army, of Admiralty Head and Marrowstone Pomt. All of the resurveys and determinations mentioned were made with the plane-table. Sufficient shore line was run to enable the features determined to be transferred to the original sheets.
[E. H. PAGENHART.)
SUMMARY OF RESU:t.Ts.-Reconnoissance: 300 square miles of area covered, 19 lines of intervisibllity determined, 6 points selected for scheme, 1 signal pole erected, and 3 observing tripods and scatrolds built.

In the spring of 1913 instructions were issued for a triangulation connecting the survey of the Strait of Fuca with the triangulation in the viciruty of Grays Harbor, stations to be established along the coast at intervals of about 10 miles. Reconnoissance was begun from stations Vancouver, Arched Rock, and Slip of the triangulation of Fuca Str'ait and by June 30 was extended south through six stations to the Quillayute River. Signal building was carried on by a separate construction party. Four stations were prepared. On heavily wooded peaks the stations were built above the trees instead of cutting lanes to clear the lines of sight. Pack animals were used to transport the party outfit, and a launch was used along the coast.
O)lEGON. [Ei>GAB E. SMITH,]

at Portland and Astoria, Oreg., were determined by triangulation. At

Tu February the ~ographic positions of wireless telegraph stations

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

47

Portland two new triangulation stations were established and two old ones recovered. The towers of the Federal Wireless Teleg-raph Co. in Lents and. those of the Young Men's Christian Association in Portland were determined. _ In Astoria three triangulation stations were occupied. The positions of the towers of the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. at Astoria and of the Navy wireless station at North Head were determined.
[E. B.
LATHAM.]

On April 28 work was begun on the determination of the geographic positions of aids to navigation and prominent objects along the Columbia River. In this ~ork the triangulation stations established by the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, were utilized. Transportation for the party was furnished by the commanding officer at Fort Stevens. Similar facilities were offered by the light house inspector of the district. It was found impracticable to recover or use the triangulation stations previously determined by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. Observations for determining the positions of all lights from the entrance of the river to stations Cathlamet and Bugby-Hole Light were made by the end of June.
CALIFORNIA.

[F. WEBTDAHL.]

The work of the San Francisco suboffice includes correspondence relating to matters of interest to the survey on the Pacific coast, attending to the forwarding of instruments and supplies sent from the office at Washington, making arrangements for the transportation of officers traveling to or from Pacific coast points or the Philip.Pine Islands, furnishmg information concerning charts and publications, and other miscellaneous duties. A resurvey of the immigration station on Angel Island, San Francisco Bay, was made by Mr. 0. J. Bond, jr. The work done consisted in the mapping of improvements such as houses, roads, and wharves and releveling over the portions where grading had been done. Mr. Bond also determined by triangulation the positions of two towers, suspending an electric power cable over the entrance to Oakland Harbor, and of a new wharf in Monterey Bay. The position of the Marconi wireless tower at Marshfield, Oreg., was determined by the officer in charge of the suboffice. Information relative to the coasts of California and Oregon for insertion in a new edition of the table of depths for channels and harbors was gathered.  The construction of a whaleboat for use by a survey party in the Hawaiian Islands was ordered and the boat when completed was inspected and forwarded. Tidal observations with an automatic gauge at Sausalito were continued during the year.
[FREMONT MORSE.] SUMMARY OF BEBULT8.-Reconno1ssance: 29.8 square miles of area covered, 61 lines of interv1s1bll1ty determined, 17 points selected for scheme. Triangula-

48

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

tton : 29.8 square miles of urea covered, 10 signal poles erected, 33 stations occupied for horizontal measures ( 16 topographically), 33 geographic positions determined (13 topographically).

In January and February determinations were made either trigonometrically or by topographic methods of the positions of wireless telegraph towers as follows: Eureka (two towers), Sacramento, San Francisco (two Marconi towers), San Francisco (two Federal towers), San Luis Obispo, East San Pedro, Avalon, Los Angeles (two towers), and San Diego. The posit10n of a new lighthouse established at the end of San Pedro Breakwater was determined by triangulation.
ALASKA.

[F. L. ADAMS.]

The magnetic observatory at Sitka, Alaska, continued in operation throughout the year: . The Eschenhagen magnetograph and the Bosch-Omari siesmographs made continuous records and the required absolute observations, scale-value determinations, and daily meteorological observations were made.  . Special rapid-rate registration was carried out on specified term days in each month in accordance with requests for international cooperation. The observatories and instruments are in good condition. Fourteen earthquakes were recorded between July 1 and December 31 and 13 between January 1 and June 30. There were few magnetic disturbances in this period.
[R. M. PATTON, Commanding Steamer Ea!plorer.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Topogruphy: 87.7 miles of general coast line surveyed. Hydrogruphy: 356! square miles of area covered, 1,444.7 miles run while sounding, 5,776 angles, 17,119 soundings, 4 tide stations established.

During the '5eason of 1912 the steamer Ewplorer was employed on the survey of the approaches to the Kuskokwim River. In accordance with instructions the hydrography was confined to the channels and the shoals within them, and sounclings were carried toward the shore only to a depth,of 10 or 12 feet. But four signals were erected for the hydrography, prominent natural objects being generally used for the J?Urpose and these being afterwards determined in position by triangulation and traverse measurement. A series of north and south lines of soundings was run, spaced about half a mile a part.  The area covered by the soundings includes the approaches to the Kuskokwim from a north and south line approximately 5 miles west of Cape Newenham eastward to the entrance to Goodnews Bay. In the limited season available for work, with unfavorable weather conditions, it was found impracticable to thoroughly develop all of the shoal areas discovered during the work. Within the limits of the region surveyed there is a dangerous shoal area, trending northnortheast (true) from a point three-fourths of a mile north of Cape . N ewenham for a distance of 91 miles. The least depth found on this

.,.
PROGRESS SKETCH

J UNE:. 30 1 1913

'l himgulation ,,hown tlwa

&conn aiat1arice sltowTL 111.ua l!4l1J
115

-

M eiico o

105

100
House Doc. 400; 63d Cong., 2d Sa ss.

2

PHOGRESS SKETCH

JUN( 3 0, 191 3

TopQ9raph y .y/,ow" tkua
115

-

M eiico o

100
11.lllORAVll.OAHO PAl lllT ED D'fTHC u .S.Gll.01..0GICAL
&Ul'\VI.~'

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong., 2d Sass.

3

-A' ai rd

T

E I X

Al
Au.ati

S

PRO GR ESS S K E T C H

J U N E. 30,1 9 1 3

li;Ydro9rapliy Nlwwn th1u

115'

-

MJ: ico o

100
UIOflAVED AND P'R ltolTCO flYTHI!. u.S.~P(IU)ClllC.0.1.. IUAVl.Y

House Doc. 4 00 ; 63d Conr., Zd Sess.

4

K I A IN

톙R'air-ct

T

E I X

A' I
!Aus ti

S

Mei:ioo o

115'

1 05

1 00
lMGAAvr.DANQ l'fllMUO IJVTtlt. u.Snf'Ol.OGltoA.l.SUR\'r'I-

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong., 2d Sess.

5

 waJ1ac"l

KIA IN

XI A l
Aus ti

S

PROGRES S S KET C H

JU NE 30 1 19 1 3

Md:ic o o

115

105

100
l!.NG'lAVll.l>ANU

rrmneo OVTHI!. U.$.OllOIOOtCAL SURVlV

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong., 2d Sess.

6

ri11

JUNE.30 1 1913

Me!ioo o

L _ .
1 1 5

,; rt굇+-,!,. I \t I I ,!,. I I I

I~~ ~,. I JV

1-+-p

I

I

I

4

==렁-:. . :.-~. .

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong., Zd Sess.

7

I
I

II

""
v'

PROGRESS SKETCH

JUNE 30 , 19 1 3

Magnetic stations shown thus 
115'

Me!ico o

105

100
House Doc. 400; 63d Cong. , 2d Sess.

톀EPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, OOAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

49

shoal was톝 feet at mean lower low water, but it is probable that there is as little as 6 feet in places. The bottom in this vicinity is irreguiar.  A second shoal area with 6 fathoms of water or less was discovered, beginning at a point 13 miles north by west (true) from Cape N ewenham and thence trending in a northerly direction for about 10 miles. This shoal, as defined by the 6-fathom curve is long and narrow, having a width of from 1 to 2 miles. The least water found on it was 22 feet. In order to determine the position points for the hydrography an additional triangulation station was established near the southern limit of the work of the previous season, and from this a traverse line was carried ahead, first with the plane table and afterwards with , the transit and stadia. This traverse line being found in error, an additional station was established at hydrographic signal "Back," about 5 miles south of Red Mountain. The position of this point was .determined by measuring with the tape a traverse along the beach from triangulation station Loz to two points to the southward from which station Back could be determined. An azimuth was carried ahead independent of the traverse. By this means six points were determined with an accuracy sufficient for the purposes of the hydrography. Five of these points have a direct check on the triangulation of the previous season. Magnetic observations were made at Seattle, Wash., at the beginning and end of the season, at Unalaska and at a shore station on the The ship was swung for compass deviation at Union Bay, British Columbia. Work was closed on September 18 and the vessel proceeded to Seattle.  The survey of the Kuskokwim was resumed early in June and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
[F. H. HARDY, Commanding Steamer Yukon.] SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Trlangulatlon: 50 square mlles of area covered, 30 . signal poles erected, 27 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 30 signal poles erected, 26 geographic positions det~rmlned. Topography: 170.7 square miles of area surveyed, 92.9 mlles of general coast line, 8.5 miles of ronds, 2 톞opographic sheets finished. Hydrograpby: 190 square miles of nrea sounded, 444 miles run while sounding, 1,297 positions determined, 6,464 soundings, 1 tide station establlshed, 2 hydrographic sheets finished.
workh~g ~ounds.

The party on the steamer Yukon was engaged during the season of in the triangulation, topography, and hydrography of Turnaga1n Arm, Cook Inlet Alaska. Work was retarded by unfavorable weather and by the violent winds and strong tidal currents in Turnagain Arm. By the close of the season on September 22 the triangulation and topography of Turnagain Arm had been carried from a line 1 mile west of Chickaloon River to triangulation station Salt eastward to the head of the arm, and the hydrography of the adjacent area completed.  The party returned to Seldovia in April to put the steamer Yukon and launch Alpha in commission. In May a rock at the entrance to
191~

14877-18---4

50

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT1 '00A8T AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Coal Bayl...~ort Graham Harbor, was located. Field work of hydrography in Kuskokwim Bay was begun on June 10 and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
[C. G. QUILLIAN, Commanding Steamer McArthur.] SUMMARY OF BEBULTB.-Trlangulation : 65 square miles of area covered, 26 signal poles erected, 14 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 10 geographic positions determined. Topography: 68 square miles of area surveyed, 159.5 miles of general coast line, 2 topographic sheets finished. Hydrograpby: 749 square miles of area covered, 905.2 miles run while sounding, 8,963 positions determined, 6,025 soundings, 3 tide stations established, 3 hydrograpbic sheets finished.

On July 1 the party on the steamer McArthur was engaged in surveys on the coast of southwestern Alaska. . The work done during the season included a complete topographic survey of Aialik Bay on a scale of 1/40,000, a hydrographic survey of the bay plotted on the same scale, also complete excepting a small area immediately outside of the Chiswell Islandsz and soundings for about 15 miles off the entrances to Aialik Ba;v and Resurrection Bay. During the course of this work two automatic tide gau~es were kept in operation for three months, observations for magnetic declination were made on Aialik Bay at Seward, and the contours were sketched in on the western side of the peninsula which terminates in Cape Resurrection. Only sufficient triangulation was executed to control the topographic work and the majority of the signals were located with the plane table. The weather during the season was unfavorable for rapid progress and owing to the exposed situation of this portion of the coast the time available for surveying operations was 'limited. Between October 6 and 14 a hydrographic examination was made of N akat Harbor. Work was closed for the season on October 14 and the vessel sailed for Seattle, arriving October 18. On her way to the working ground in Cook Inlet the steamer McArthur stopped to make a reconnoissance survey of Burnett Inlet, extending from a small island on the eastern side to the -qpper end of the islands just above the cannery. The shore line was run in on a scale of 1/10,000 on a plane-table traverse. Sounding lines were spaced 200 meters apart in the area. immediately off the cannery and slightly wider apart, further out. A shoal previously reported was located and another shoal with 11> feet of water on it was discovered. Points for the survey were located by a plane-table triangulation. A number of points wer~ marked for future reference. Azimuth observations were made from a station on the cannery wharf. Ma~netic observations were made with coml?ass declinometer and the ship was swung to give the magnetic decimation. Upon the completion of this work the MeArtk11fr proceeded to Seward, Alaska, touching at Juneau to inspect the tide gauge there. The position of the City dock at Petersburg was determined and located on the chart. The tide gauge at Juneau was inspected and put in order and the gauge was connected by leveling with the tidal bench marks.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

51

A party was established in camp for the survey of Iniskin Bay. The main party then proceeded with signal building and reconnaissance with the object of extending the triangulation into Kamishak Bay. A base line 1,000 meters in length was measured at Iniskin Bay and the local triangulation was taken up by the camping party. Topography was begun as soon as sufficient stations were determined. By June 30, 16 stations had been built in Kamishak Bay and 7 of them had been occupied, 2 tide gauges had been established, and about 16! miles of topography had been completed.

L!R.

B. DEBIOKsoN, Commanding Steamer Geane11.1)

SUMMARY OF BESULTs.-Triangulation: 892 square miles of area covered, 38 signal poles erected, 32 geographic positions determined, 22 stations occupied for horizontal measures. Magnetic work: 8 stations occupied for mugnetic observations, 2 complete swings of ship for magnetic deYlntion. Topography: 117.3 mlles of general coast line, 5 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography: 274.5 square miles of aren sounded, 945.1 miles run while sounding, 3,666 positions determined, 4,778 soundings, 3 tide stations established, 5 hydrograpblc sheets finished.

During the period from July 1 to October 3, when work was closed for the season, the p_!!rty on the steamer T aku was engaged in general surveys in Prince William Sound, Alaska. The triangulation, topography, and hydrography of Port Wells which had oeen begun on June 19 were completed on August 26. Between August 30 and October 3 the party was engaged in the survey of Simpson Bay. At Port Wells heavy rains were experienced and the weather conditions during the season were generally very unfavorable to work. By July 5 the erection of si~als for the triangulation was completed. The occupation of stations was then begun and by July 23 the triangulation was completed. All triangulation stat10ns, both those in the main scheme and the intersection stations, were marked with C. & G. Survey disk marks cemented into drill holes in the rock, and descriptions of the stations were made to accompany the records. ' The topography of Port Wells is included on two sheets, one on a scale of 1/20,000 and the other on 1/40,000 scale. This work was completed on August 26.  The hydrography was begun on July 27 and completed August 24. It includes Culross Island ; east and west Twin Bays on the north side of Perry Island; the entrance to Perry Island Passage from Axil Lind Island on the north to Upper Passage on the south, and as far east as the surveyed area west of Naked, Storey, and Knight Islands, and through Perry Island Passage from Lone Island and the Dutch gro~p of ~slands to the entrance to Port Wells. The only shoal of any size or importance extends for about three-fourths mile to the northward from the north end of .Lone Island. Deep water, from 200 to 300 fathoms, lies north of this and between Lone Island and the Dutch group, affording a broad, deep entrance to Perry Island Passage. A rock, bare at low water, was located about onefourth mile south of Fool Island. Deep water lies between this rock and Perry Island. Perry Island Passage is clear with depths of 100 to aoo fathoms,

52

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDEN+, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

T~de ?bservations with automatic gauge and staff were made at a station m Culross Bay from July 19 to August 25, and three tidal bench marks were established. Observations for magnetic declination were made at station Tree on August 23. On August ~9 magnetic observations were made at station Nibsy on Observation Island. On the way to Simpson Bay the ship was swung for compass deviatfon on August 30. . On August 31 work was b~gun on .the survey of Simpson Bay. S1~als were erected for the tnangulation and 톋 plane-table triangulation was carried to the head of the bay. A tide staff was erected in Simpson Bay and three tidal bench marks established. The survev of the north area of the bay was completed on October 3, when work was closed for the season. Work was begun on Eshamy Bay in May, 1!H3. The signal building and observation of angles were completed on May 26 and the s-ounding was then begun. The weather was favorable a.nd with two topographic and one hydrographic parties at work the survey from the entrance of Port Wells to Port Nowell was completed by June 27.
[R. B.
DERICKSON,

Commanding Steamer Gedney.]

SUMMARY OF REBULTs.-Triangulatlon: 85 signal poles erected. Topography: 166.5 square miles of area sur\'eyed, 301.8, 3 miles of shore llne of creeks, 4 miles of roads and railroads, 7 topographic .sheets finished. Hydrography: 144.2 square miles of urea sounded, 1,006.2 positions determined, 21,183 soundings, 10 tide stntlons estnbllshed, 1 current stutlon occupied, 8 hydrographic sheets finished. 

At the beginning of the fiscal year the party on the steamer Gedney was engaged in the survey of Tlevak Strait in southeastern Alaska. During the latter ~a.rt of June the necessary triangulation points had been recovered, signals erected, and other preliminary operations completed. Supplemental points were determined where necessary   with the plane table. The topography was practically confined to the shore line and adjacent mountain peaks. The topographic survey extends from Mellen Rock on the north a.nd Shoe Rock on the south entrance of Tlevak Strait and was carried along the north end of Long Island from near Shoe Rock to Howkan village, thence along the east coast of Dall Island from opposite Howkan village to the south end of Suemez Island. This embraces the entire west shore of Tlevak Strait with the exception of Buldy Bay (View Cove). On the north and east side of the strait the shore line was surveyed from near Mellen Rock and ,Jackson Island along the south end of Sukkwan Island to the McFarland Islands, including the largest of the McFarland Islands. From the west entrance of Sukkwan Pass the topography was carried along the coast to the North Pass and thence along the shore line of Halibut Nose including the northernmost of the Corlies Isfands and the group called Nichols Islands. The topography is included on two sheets on a scale of 1/20,000. An additional projection on a scale of 1/10,000 was completed, extending from Halibut Nose and North Bay on the south to the south end of Suemez Island in the north. The shore line from the south end of Suemez Island to Cape Flores was sketched in by the hydrographic part.Y. The only pa.rt of the season's work not completely controlled by triangulation is the channel of Sukkwa.n Straits, extending from its

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

53

west entrance to Tlevak Strait to the new town of Hydaburg, opposite Sukkwan Narrows. This work was taken up at the close of the season after Tlevak Strait had been completed from Cordova Bay to Bucareli Bay. A topographic sheet on scale of 1/5,000 was constructed, three tri11ngulation stations at the south end of the sheet were plotted, and 톐rom these a plane table and sextant triangulation was carried to the town of Hydaburg, a distance of 3 miles. Flags were placed along the shore line, which were used as signals by the hydrographic _party. A reconnoissance and sketch of the North Pass of Sukkwan Straits from Tlevak Strait to the completed work at Hyda.burg was plotted on a separate sheet which joins the work on both the 1/20,000 and 1/5,000 sheets. The hydrographic work done during the season extends from Lacey Island and Shoe Rock at the southeast end of Tlevak Strait along the shores and in the bays at the north end of Long Island and the south end of Sukkwan Island, also the bays along the northeast coast of Dall Island with the exception of Buldy Bay (View Cove). The entire area between Sukkwan and Long Island was covered and that portion of the Strait along the east coast of Dall Island west of a line joining the McFarland and Nichols Islands, and from Nichols Islands to Halibut Nose, the entrance to Soda Bay and Channel extending from the Lively Islands, through Ulloa Channel to Bucareli Bay, giving a complete hydrographic survey of Tlevak Strait Channel from COrdova Bay to Bucareli Bay, a distance of 34 nautical miles and covering 4 hydrographic sheets. The soundings preViously taken in Tlevak Strait were supplemented and the survey in that vicinity extended to the bays and channels northeast of the Narrows.  After completing the work in Tlevak Strait a hydrographic survey of Sukkwan Strait from its entrance to Tlevak Strait along the main ship channel to the anchorage off the town of Hydaburg was completed.  This covers the most intricate portion of Sukkwan Strait. Tides were observed during the season with staff gauges and with an automatic gauge. Observations of currents were made during the progress of the hydrography and sufficient data gathered to determine the relation of slack waters in Sukkwan Narrows to the predicted high and low waters at Sitka. Magnetic observations for declination were made at Turn Point and at the south end of Tlevak Strait. As the result of information gained during this survey southbound vessels desiring a shorter inside route from Christian Sound can now make a saving of 25 to 30 miles by the Tlevak Strait route. Vessels calling at the Klawak cannery, one of the largest canneries in southeastern Alaska, when bound for other ports on the west coast of Prince of 'V'ales Island, have heretofore rounded the north and south ends of Prince of Wales Island, making an unnecessary detour of 170 miles between the ports of Sulzer and Klawak. Work for the season was closed on .October 12 and the vessel proceeded via Metlakatla and Ketchikan to Seattle arriving October 30. In the spring of 1913 the survey of Kasook Inlet was completed. 톐'he position of a submerged rock at the north end of Grand Islands m Tlevak Strait was determined, and work was begun in Bucareli

54

톀EPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Bay. Assistance was rendered the Pacific Coast Co.'s steamer Oura.cao in getting off a reef at the south end of Fish Egg Island, and when that vessel was afterwards wrecked on a submerged rock and beached in Tonawek Bay, the passengers and crew with express and mail matter were taken off and conveyed to Ketchikan by the Gedney. The rock on which the Curacao struck was afterwards located and determined in position. Triangulation stations established in 1906 were recovered and signals erected through San Christoval Channel. Tidal observations were made in the progress of the work. The area from Catalina Island to northwest of Lazaratita Island was thoroughly surveyed and temporary ranges showing the axis of the main ship channel were erected. Old triangulation stations were then recovered, signals were built and the hydrography and topography were continued to the southward of Cape Lynch. This work was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
[F. WEBTDAHL, Commanding Steamer Patterson.] SUMMARY OF RESULTS.-Triangulatlon: 1,100 square miles of area covered, 24 signal poles erected, 5 observing signals built, 28 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 9 stntlons occupied for vertical measures, 30 geographic positions determined. Mngnetlc work: 3 stntlons occupied for magnetic observations. Topography : 58 square miles of urea covered, 135 miles of general coast line surveyed, 1 topographic sheet finished. Hydrography: 15 square miles of area sounded, 134 miles run while sounding, 1,093 angles measured, 1,773 soundings mnde, 3 tide stations estnblished, 1 hydrogmphic sheet finished.

During the period from August 17 to October 23 the party on the steamer Patterson was engaged in general surveys in Clarence Strait, southeastern Alaska. The work done included triangrllation, topography, and hydrography, but in accordance with instructions especial attention was paid to the advancement of the triangulation. The triangulation was extended in a general northerly direction from the base Lazaro-Ken to a junction with previously established stations on Caamano Head, Grinall Island, and Island Point. The topography was begun near Cape Chacon. A projection was prepared on a scale of 1/20,000 to reach from that point northward to Scott Point, including McLean Arm, Gardner Bay, and Kendrick Bay. Two more projections were prepared on the same scale, the first to cover Ingraham Bay and the southern part Gf Moira Sound, and the other the northern part of Moira Sound, but owing. to unfavorable weather work was not completed on either of these she~ts. The existing chart of Niblack Anchorage and the sailing directions for that harbor were found to require considerable correction. A limited hydrographic development was made of the inlets surveyed. They are all so deep that no more is needed. The shores are steep to, except at the head Of the inlets, and there are few hidden dangers. The rocks exposed at low tide are, as a rule, flat-topped and smooth as if ice worn. Hydrographic work was done in McLean Arm, Gardner Bay, Kendrick Bay, in the bay north of Kendrick Bay, and Niblack Bay. The rock shown on chart 8100, l! miles southeastward from Wedge Island, marked as exposed at low tide, was carefully searched for but not found. Its removal from the chart is recommended. The  reef southwest of Dall Head, marked " position doubtful " on the same chart, was found and its position determined.

8
152'

156"

160"

164

1611

17~

178"

18d'

178"

172"

fill"

1154'

160"

1!16"

152"

l..e"

144

l'to'

138"

1112"

128"

124

120

116"

,wioh

OIC .E,.A
톓

',
&<!

541-u.s. COAST ANO GEODE.TIC SU'll.Vl!:.Y

PROGRESS SKETCH

ALASKA
JUNI! 80, 191:!1 6/lllVlrY

~TAT/0113

. - .  - - - -  -   - 렁   

b

J.AT/TtlD~

IJLTlllNINA'NOJtS-. - - - - -- - . . .

l01f6/TllDE "       --  렁 .AZIMUTH 렁렁 --렁 - 렁 -렁---렁렁"

+
~

TllML OIJ:HlfYATION:J. -  -- --- - -  - -

G

s

E

s'I

nu1~1.

"

~
렁 ct

},
:

:~

G tr:axJJ.'4X- "I
168"
r72'
17e

~
1ee

180'

1711'

172'

,.,..

160'

156'

1&2.'

1411

144'

.... ,. .. ,. .,,...,l"""""톋렁"톅렁텽l.09<1"....... u,...,.v

'""

House Doo. 400; Sid Cons., Id Seu.

9
1s2

156

1so

16~

u;6

17~

176

1so0

176

oz

1ss

164

1so 0

1!36

rsz

,.,._9

144

14'-0

13G

0

132

1'2.8

12.4

no

116

U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

PROGRESS SKETCH

ALASKA
.JUNE 30,1913
TRll1NG//LATION SHOWN THl/S ... 

G

s

.E'

&'-ibilof Is .





t
'ti
168
17G
0

1.

la n

.,,, :.: ...
17z

1eo

17G

0

168"

164

1110

156
tl<OFl.A\'tOA'lll)

rmt<n:o UY Tl\L u.S.G1!6L001CA~$URYI!\'

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong., 2d Sess.

10
ISZ"

156

1eo

164"

1s5

172

1 76

1so

0

175

oz

1ss

164-0

1 56"

rsz

148

144

1~

13G

132"

128"

12.4'

120

11s

64"1 U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

I

OIC E.A

PROGRESS SKETCH

ALASKA
.JUNE 30,1913
TOPOGRAPHY SHOWN T/"fU.5....

G

s

E

,

PM bilo ls .

.

t
~
176"

1

la n

.... :.: :
172

5"\.

1eo

1"16.

168'

164'

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong. , 2d Sess.

11
175

oz

1ss

16+

116

641 U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SUP..VEY

PROGRESS SKETCH

ALASKA
.JUNE 30,1913

G

s

E

.eri bilof Is.

"

"

t
~

i

la n

... :.:
172 ~

.

.

176.

168"

164'

IGO

156
t.Nt; ..... VrCI ~ .. 'l " "I N'tH' VY r>1r. ..,,,.(l~IC...~ S U !W11...-

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong. , 2d Sess.

12
17~
0

152.

11

1 ss

160

164

166.

17z"

1so

1 76

17 z

164

160

15 6

ISZ11

1 ""4-~ 0

1+4

I ~

13(;.

132

1 u

124

11

no

116

ss

64컅 U.S. COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

PROGRESS SKETCH

ALASKA
JUNE 3 0 ,1913

Ml46NEYIC ~ERVll7'10NS - - - - -

e

G

s

E

PM bilof l s .

.

"

6'\.

t i
~
168

la n

~"

:.: :
1 68
164  160
t!NIJl\AVl!.OMID
ffil~-rro

116

172

OYTHC u.s.cocdUJGICAL.'i\JA\lr:Y

House Doc. 400 ; 63d Cong., 2d Sess.

MPO:RT' OF SUPEiuNTENDEN'T, COAST AND

GEODETIC SURVEY.

55

At Port Chester the depths at the anchorage shown on chart 8074 were found to be greater than the soundings on the chart would indicate. Tides were observed at McLean Arm, Kendrick Bay, and Niblack Bay, but not for a sufficiently long period for the computation of a plane of reference. Magnetic observations were made at Union Bay, British Columbia. and the ship was swung to determine the deviation of the compass.  Field work was closed on October 24 and the vessel sailed for Seattle, arriving October 31.
[J. B. MILLER, Commanding Steamer Patterson.]
SUMMARY oF RESULTs.-Physlcnl bydrogrnpby: 102 surface temperatures taken at sea, three current stations occupied. Longitude: One longitude station occupied. Base measure: One secondary base line 0.8 kilometer in length. Magnetic work: Two ship stations occupied for magnetic observations and two shore stations occupied for magnetic observations.

The steamer Patterson began work in southeast Alaska in the early part of June and surveys were begun in two localities. For this purpose a party of 4 officers and 14 men with 3 power boats was put to work on a survey of the Shumagins while the steamer was engaged upon hydrography on Davidsons Bank, 60 miles southeastward and seaward from Unimak Pass, and 125 miles distant from the work of the detached party. The work in the Shumagins was beITTin in Zachary Bay on Unga Island, Humboldt Harbor on Popof 'island, and the northern approach of both, and was extended eastward and southeastward through Popof 'Strait toward Nagai Island. The hydrography upon which the ship began work lies at a distance of about 40 miles offshore southeast of Unimak Pass and southward and southwestward of Sannak Islands, and consisted of a search for two rocks which are indicated on the charts in the track of vessels approaching Unimak Pass from the southeast, but the existence of which is considered doubtful. This work was in progress at the close of the year. Tidal observations were begun at Sand Point in the Shumagin Islands with an automatic gauge to serve as a base station and subsidiary stations were occupied on the neighboring islands. Current observations were made at all open anchorages. No unusual or striking features of either tides or current were developed, the currents observed being moderate in strength, ranging from one-half to 2 knots. Magnetic observations were made at the base station at Seattle and at a new station at Sand Point in the Shumagin Islands. Observations were also made in Shelikof Strait between Semidi Islands and the mainland. The usual compass declimometer observations were carried through the Shumugin Islands.
OUTLYING TERRITORY. PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

[P. A. WELKER, Director of Const Surveys.]

The Director of Surveys in the Philippine Islands, whose office is at Manila, has immediate direction of the details of the field and office work in these islands under general instructions from the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, makes plans for field

56

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SUR~'EY.

work, and issued instructions to field parties. The results of magnetic observations made in the field are reported and discussed in the office at Manila, and drawings for new charts are there prepared and transmitted to the office at Washington for publication. The general plan of the division of the expenses between the Government of the United States and the Philippine government, which has applied since January 1, 1902, was observed during the year. The first half of the fiscal year was notable as being one of the most stormy and disastrous seasons that have been known in the Philippine Islands. Stormy weather prevailed during much of the time and the regions of the field surveying operations were visited by most severe typhoons on November 6, 25, and 26, and on December 15 to 16. The destruction caused in the paths of these typhoons has been made the subject of individual and press reports and no detail repetition is considered necessary. The many lives that were lost, vessels that were beached and foundered, and the great destruction to property on shore are all matters of record. The most serious lo.ss to the Coast and Geodetic Survey was the foundering of one of the launches of the steamer Pathfinder in Cebu Harbor October 15; the stranding of the steamer M arinuluque on the coast of Pala wan November 6, necessitating the loss. of the services of the vessel for two and one-half months; the destruction of the surveying signals in the localities of the work; and the great amount of time lost by the various vessels on account of the weather conditions being too stormy for field operations. In addition to the time lost at work may be mentioned the extraordi!lary repairs required to the steamers Pathfinder and M arinduque, w h1ch kept the former out of the field for five months and the latter four and one-half months, resulting in a considerable reduction in the output of work. Except during intervals when repairs were necessary to the vessels, the parties attached to the five steamers available :for duty were continuously engaged in the field. There was also one shore party engaged for seven and one-half months during the year inmaking observations for the determination of the magnetic elements in the various parts of the islands. A reference to progress sketch No. 15 will show that the surveys of the coast of the Philippine Islands have covered all of the localities which are at present of any considerable commercial importance, the remainder of the work being in localities many of which are dangerous for navigation but which at the present date are seldom visited by vessels engaged in trade. The unsurve_yea regions are at such great distances from the base of supply and so far from the ~enernl lines of travel :for merchant vessels that the matter of arrangmg for furnishing the various vessels of the Survey with coal, oil for motor launches, and general supplies has become a serious problem. The nearest base of supply for the Pathfinder is 260 miles: the Romblon 250 miles, the Fatlwmer 135 miles, the ReBearch. 130 miles, the i1farinduque 90 miles. Some of these distances will greatly increase as the work progresses. The necessity for establishing coaling stations nearer the localities of work will therefore be recognized. During the fiscal year 1913 there was completed the most extensive and probably the most important trigonometrical survey that has been executed in the Philippine Islands. The triangulation over the large water area bounded by Luzon, Burias, Mastate, Panay, and

REPORT OF SVPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

57

Tablas Island~ thence extending via Mindoro and Panay across the Cuyos to the l.Jalamianes and Palawan, thence northward over Apo Reef and Verde Island Passage to a connection with the former work in the Lubang Islands, was all completed during the fiscal year. This work involved lines as much as 91 statute miles in length, the longest that will be required for any survey in the Philippine Islands. It is gratifying to note that there is now a connected system of trian~lation over the greater part of the coast of the Philippine Islands, which will permit the adjustment upon a uniform datum to proceed without any interruption. By reference to the progress sketch, it will be seen that little triangulation of a secondary class will be required in the future, the trigonometric work remaining for execution being almost entirely of a tertiary class. During the fiscal year there has been the usual exchange of results and harmonious cooperation with the naval and military authorities, and the various bureaus under the government of the Philippine Islands. During the year 1,018 square miles have been covered by reconnoissance, 12,916 miles of triangulation have been completed, and 945 miles of coast line surveyed, 9;23 square miles of topography have been surveyed, and 32t topographic sheets completed. The hydrographic work has covered 10,604 square miles, 22 tide stations have been occupied, and 47! hydrographic sheets have been completed. The general coast line surveyed during the year is about 5.2 of the total length. Since the beginning of the work about 63 per cent of the general shore line has been surveyed. Among other matters that received the attention of the Director of Coast Surveys were the series of tide observations at the automatic tide-gauge stations at Manila, too compilation of a revised table of distances between ports in the Philippine Islands, the compilation of a list of Philippine geographic names, and the work of the Harbor Lines Commission, of which the Director is 11 member. During the fiscal year sections 1 and 5 of the Philippine Islands Sailing Directions were revised and republished, five Notices to Mariners were prepared and published, and much original hydrographic information was obtained. The chief of the nautical division served as a member of the Lighthouse Board of the Philippine Islands.  The sale and distribution of the charts and other publications of the survey was attended to by the suboffice at Manila. Five new maps of the Philippine Islands were compiled in the geographic division, and progress was made in the compilation of 11 number of other maps. Among these is a mnp of the entire Philippine Archipelago on a scale of 1/1,000,000 which will conform to the scale adopted by the International Geographic Congress for an atlas of the world.
[F. G. ENGLE, Commanding Steamer Research; 'VIII. 1\1. STEIRNAGLE, Commanding Steamer Research.]

SUMMARY oF BEBULTB.-590 square mlles of nren covered, 9 stations selected for secondary scheme, 13 lines of lnter,톖slb!llty determined. Trlnngulatlon: 1,540 square miles of urea covered, 24 signals and scaffolds erected, 16 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 47 geographic positions determined. 톜oPogrnphy: 58 square miles of area surveyed, 155 miles of general coust line surveyed, 13 miles of rivers and creeks, 18 miles of roads, 4! topographic sheets

58

REPORT OF St1PERINTElir1YEN1', COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

finished. Hydrography: 1,308 square miles of area sounded, 5,086 miles run while sounding, 61,225 soundings, 7 tide stations established, 91 hydrographlc i;heets finished.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the party attached to this steamer was en~ged in general surveys in the region about Masbate, Biliran, Marip1pi, and Talajit Islands .. The triangulation covering this area was completed before the beginning of the year. Topographic work was executed on the north coast of Biliran Island; over the entire areas of Generuan, Tagampul, Tomasa, Sambauan, Mari pi pi, Balanguingue, Bugton, and Basley Islands; and on the east coast of Masbate Island from Caduruan Point to Cataingan Bay. Complete hydrographic surveys were made over practically the entire area, extendin~ from a point about 2 miles east of Maria Island to Caduruan I oint on Masbate Island, thence along the east coast of Masbate to the head of Cataingan Bay, thence southeasterly to Bugton Island, thence to a point about 1 miTe northwest of Talajit Island, around this island at a distance of about 1 mile, and thence to Tomasa Island, thence due south to the north shore of Biliran Island, westerly along this shore to Tincansa.n 텶sland, thence west for a distance of 6 miles south for 11 miles, and thence to the point of beginning. An automatic tide gauge was kept in operation in Santo Nino Harbor, Santo Nino Island, until July 15, when it was moved to Cataingan Bay. Staff gauges were erected and read when required for the purpose of reducing soundings. In December work was begun on the south coast of Masbate Island. An automatic gauge was established at Guion'!. and a. traverse for locating hydrographic signals was rup from Cacturuan Point to Nanco Point on Masbate Island, a distance of about 16 miles. In January the work of triangulation and hydrography was in progress on the south coast of Masbate. The hydrography was finished by March 6 and the triangulation by March 22, thus completing all necessary surveys in that region. The triangulation consisted of one large quadrilateral and one small triangle, the longest line being about 42 miles. It furnishes a eonnection with previous surveys in that locality. The topography which covered one-half a sheet was for purposes of verification only. The hydrography was carried over the region approximately from Caduruan Point to Buri Point on the south coast of Masbate and extending offshore to Tanguingui Island Lighthouse and connecting with previous surveys. An automatic tide gauge was established at Guion and was kept in operation from December 21 to March 12. One sea station for magnetic declination was occupied northwest of Guinauayan Island. On March 24 work was begun in the area between Masbate and Samar, beginning on the coast of Samar. Triangulation was extended from Tagapula Island northward to southern Luzon and through San Bernardino Strait to San Bernardino Lighthouse. On May 14 final connection was made with th~ work of 1902 in San Bernardino Strait. Topography on the west coast of Samar was

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

59

completed from Malayoc Point to Balicuatro Point, connecting with previous surveys. The topographic work also included the entire ureas of Dalupiri and Capul Islands. The hydrography inshore was extended over the limits of the topography on the west coast of Samar and also around Dalupiri Island and along the east side of Capul Island. The offshore hydrography was extended to the limits of the topography on the Samar coast and for about 12 miles from the shore. Tide observations with an automatic gauge were made at Mano River, Samar, and staff readings were made at other points in the progress of the work.
[L. O. COLBERT, Conunundlng Steamer Marinduque.]

SUMMARY oF RESULTB.-Trlnngulntlon: 2,252 square miles of urea covered. 40 signals nnd scntfolds erected. 28 stations occupied for horlzontul measures, 83 geographic positions determined. Topogrnphy: 298 square miles of urea surveyed, 162 miles of genernl coust line surveyed, 72 miles of rivers and creeks, 2 miles of rouds, 10 topogrnphlc sheets finished. Hydrograpby: 1,857 square miles of urea sounded, 2,G31 miles run while sounding, 35,662 soundings, 1 tide station established, 15 hytlrographlc sheets finished.

The survey of Ra gay Gulf, Luzon Island, by the party on the steamer Marinduque was continued from July 1 until July 30, when work for the season was temporarily suspended. During this time the hydrography of the area remaining unfinished in Ragay Gulf was completed.  The topographic survey of the shore line of the Gulf was closed by an 18-mile traverse over the section between Pusgo and Lian Points. An automatic tide gauge was continued in operation until the close of 'the work. In October work was begun on the east coast of Palawan and continued until November G, when the steamer was stranded on a reef during a typhoon and was taken to Manila for repairs. In this region the triangulation was advanced in cooperation with the party on the steamer Fatho11u:1 from the line Cabulauan to Dulan on the islands of Cabulauan and Dalanganen. This line had previously been established by the party on the Fat homer. The resulting figure connected the points Cabulauan, Dalen, Pina, and Norte. From the line connecting the last two points the work was carried to the north, south, and west, connecting the island of Palawan with the general scheme of the triangulation of the Philippine Islands. Signals were erected to the southward as far as the line Pagdanun to Green. Five intersection stations were established itnd observations for the location of many prominent mountain peaks were obtained. In January the 11/arinduque began work on the west coast of Mindoro. A main scheme of trinngulation was carried up the coast from Apo Reef to Verde Island Passage and subsidiary points were located for the control of the topograpi1y and hydrography. The topography was carried from the mouth of the Luminuto River to Balto Point on the north coast of the island, joining with the work of 1906. The inshore hydrography was co~pleted within the same limits as the topography. The offshore soundings were carried to the 1,000-fathom curve, a distnnce of about 15 miles from the west coast and 5 miles from the north coast. The hydrography included the development of Discovery Bank and Mamburao Reef. Tide staff readings were made in the progress of the work.

60

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
[R. F. LUCE, Commanding Steamer Romblon.]

Su.11!:MARY OF RESULTs.-'.rrlangnlntlon: 1,433 square miles of nrea covered, 44 signals and scaffolds erected, 16 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 47 geographic positions determined. Topography: 171 squnre miles of area surveyed, 210 miles of general coast line surveyed, 6 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography: 1,335 square miles of area sounded, 4,114 miles run wliile:soundlng, 50,875 soundings, 6 tide stations. established, 10 bydrographlc sheets finished.

During the season from July 1 to September 19 the steamer Romblon was engaged in general surveys in the vicinity of Burias-, M:asbate, Sibuyan, and Romblon Islands. . All of the triangulation in the area covered by the instructions for this work had been completed prior to July 1 and the work after that date consisted entirely of topography and hydrography. The topography done durinp; the period mentioned was the mapping of the shore line of the :following localities: North coast of Masba te Island, between Bugui and Colorada Point Lighthouses; Romblon Island, between Tongo and Apnnan Points; and Alad and Cobrador Islands. The hydrographic work done covers the following areas: North coast of Sibuyan Island, near the town of Magallanes; between Bugui and Colorada Point Lighthouses; northeast coast of Romblon Island and shores of Alad and Cobrador Islands; reefs near Cresta de Gallo Island; offshore work east of Sibuyan Island; northeast coast of Romblon Island and north coast of Romblon Island. In general, in the entire work, lines were run radially to the coast to at least 1 mile from the shore, and beyond that usually parallel to the shore. Inside the 25-fathom curve the lines were spaced about 100 meters apart and outside the 25-fathom curve from 250 to 275 meters apart except where the bottom was extremely irregular, when a smaller interval was used. Between the 65 and the 110 fathom curves the lines were spaced about two and one-half to the mile. Outside the 110-fathom curve soundings were taken about 3 miles apart. Tidal observations with an automatic gauge and tide staff were made at Romblon, and a tide staff was also estitblished at Magallanes on the north coast of Sibuyan Island, and continuous readings were taken there, day and night, for five days for the purpose of establishing a plane o:f reference. In October, after completing a small piece of work on the northwest coast of Masbate Island, combined field operations were begun in the vicinity of the Lubang Islands. A tertiary triangulation based upon points previously determined on the east coast of Ambil Island and west coast of Go1o Island was carried to a point west of the town of Looc and another on Manog Point, Lubang Island. From the stations determined sufficient points were located to control the eastern section of the Lubang Islands. Topographic work was done on the north, east 1 and south coasts of Lubang Island; on the east, south, and west coasts of Ambil Island; and the western half of the south coast of Golo Island. Small detached pieces of topography were also executed on the north and west coasts of Masbate Island. For the completion of the survey of the Sibuyan Sea small de. tached pieces of hydrography were executed off the northwest coast

of Masbate Island.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURv_EY.

61

In the region about the Lubang Islands hydrographic work was done as .follo~s: On the south coast of Lu bang Island from Tapu~an to Manog Pomt; southern part of Golo Passage from Manog Pomt on Lubang Island to a point on the south coast of Golo Island, about 2 miles east of Golo Passage; off the east coast of Lu bang Island, from and including Golo Passage to the town of Looc in Looc Bay; on south and west coast of Ambil Island, extending about 1 mile offshore; Port Tilig; off northeast coast of Lu bang Island from Balikias Bay nearly to Anti polo Point; along center of passage Ambil and Lubang Islands; over a strip 1 mile wide on the north coast of Lubang from Port Tilig to connect with work on the west coast of Ambil Island; south coasts of Lubang and Golo Islands from Tapusan Point on Lubang to a point south of the center of Golo Island; and over the urea north of Golo Island nnd east of Lubang and Ambil Islands, extending nearly to the Lu.zon coast to a connection with the hydrography previously executed. An automatic gauge was maintained at Port Tilig throughout the season and the staff readings were made at various places. At the beginning of the calendar year the party attached to the steamer Romblon was engaged in combined field operations in the region about the Lubang Islands. That work was commenced on October ::n and completed on February 7, when hydrography was interrupted by the strength of the northward monsoon. The vessel next took up surveys in the vicinity of the Calamianes Islands, which were continued until May 14. Work was then resumed in the vicinity of the Lubang Islands, the weather conditions being again favorable. The survey of the Lubang Islands was completed on June 17 and the vessel was again transferred to the survey of the Calamiunes Islands on June 23. The secondary triangulation in the Lubang Islands having been completed in the year 1!)06, only such additional triangulation was executed as was necessary for the location of points for carrying on the topography and hydrography. For work in the Calamianes the secondary scheme of triangulation was carried northward from points on Cabulauan Islands and Pinachiuyan Islands, Linapacan, Culion, and Galloc Islands to Basuanga Islands. From the points thus established and from those previously established on: Culion and Calambagan Islands, a tertiary scheme of triangulation for the location of points for topographic and hydrographic surveys was carried over the region. The topographic work executed during the second half of the fiscal year consisted of the mapping of all those parts of the Lubang group that had not been completed previous to the last report, thus resulting in a comp'lete topographic ~urvey of those islands .. The topographic work in the Calamianes included the shore line of the west coast of Culion Islands from Dicabaito to Galloc Islands .and the shores of the eastern bay on the north coast of Linapacan. 텶n the Lubang Islands the top"ography was carried over the entire surface of the islands, in the Calamianes it was carried a few miles inward. The hydrographic work in the Lubang Islands included the inshore and offshore work necessary to complete the survey of that region, extending to the westward to include the 100-fathom curve, to the northward and eastward junction of previous work, and to the southward to n junction of the work executed off the north coast of Mindoro; In the Calamianes, inshore

62

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

and offshore hydrographic work was executed within the limits of the topographic work extending from Dicabaito to Galloc Islands off the west coast of Culion and also the eastern bay on the north coast of Linapacan Islands. In connection with the work in the Lubang Islands automatic tide gauge at Port Tilig was maintained in operation until February 13. Staff readings were taken at various stations throughout the locality of the work. All the staffs in the Lubang Islands were referred to the datum plane established at Port Tilig and those in the Calamianes were referred to the automatic gauge established at Port Uson by the party on the steamer Fatlwmer.

an

[EBERHARDT l\IUELLER, Commanding Steamer Fatlwmcr; T. J. l\IAIIER, Commanding Steamer Pathomer.] SUMMARY OF BESULTs.-Triangulatlon: 5,378 square miles of area covered, 20 signals and scaffolds erected, 22 stations occupied for horlzontnl measures, 102 geographic positions determined. Magnetic work: G magnetic stations occupied. 'l'opography: 76 square miles of area covered, 233 miles of general coast line surveyed, 10 miles of rivers nnd creeks, 15 miles of roads surveyed, 2i topographic sheets finished. Hydrogruphy : 4,088 square miles of area sounded, 8,080 miles run while sounding, 56,592 soundings, 5 tide stations established, 2t hydrograpblc sheets finished.

During the period from July 1 to December 31 this partv completed the secondary triangulation extending from the Island of Panay, across the northern part of the Sulu Sea over the Cnyo Islands to the island of Palawan, which had been begun in March of the previous year, and extended the survey along the west coast of Mindoro westward to Apo Reef. The topography and hydrography of Apo Reef was completed. Tertiary tr1angulat10n was executed in Coron Bay, through Coron Passafe and along the east coast of Busuanga Island; the topography o part of the cast coast of Culion Island and all of the smaller ofHying islands was completed and the inshore hydrography in the same region was almost finished. The offshore hydrography included such soundings as it was possible to make while the triangulation was in progress and about 500 square miles of the comparatively shoal area lying east of Culion Island. In the survey of Apo Reef the soundings were carried out to depths of 250 to 500 fathoms, with detailed work around the edge and over the reef. A channel running east and west through the middle of the reef was developed, and in this an anchorage affording good protection from the sea was found. The eastern edge of this channel contains many rocks with little depth of water over them, and although passage through is possible it is very dangerous except for small boats. Numerous uncharted shoals were found and located throughout the region surveyed, many of which are dangerous to navigation. Tidal observations were made with an automatic gauge on Bisucay Island and at Port Uson on Busuanga Island, and staff readings were taken on Apo Island. Currents were observed at two stations, one on a shoal 15 miles east-northeast of N angaloo Island, the other at the southern extremity of Apo Reef. Magnetic declination was observed at six stations, four in the Calinuanes, one on Apo Reef, and one on Dalanganem Island.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

63

The Fatlwmer remained at Manila making repairs and obtaining supplies until March 8, when she returned to the working ground and resumed work on the surveys in the extensive region having the Quinilugan Islands as a central point and extending over the area bounded by Panay, Mindoro, Northern Palawan, the Calamianes, and Apo Reef. This work was continued without interruption until April 26, when the steamer returned to Manila for the purpose of making repairs and transfer of command. The command was transferred from Mr. Eberhardt Mueller to Mr. T. J. Maher on May 2. The field work was resumed on May 8. During the remainder of the fiscal year only a small amount of tertiary triangulation was done for the control' of topography and inshore hydrography. The region of triangulation being sufficiently large to engage the hydrographic party for a considerable period. The topographic work was executed on the south shore of Busuanga Island and the north shore of Coron Island. Attention was chiefly confined to hydrographv, on account of the vast unsurveyed water area assigned to the steamer. Ship hydrography was carried on in the waters of Cuyos, Cabulauan, and Calamianes Islands and the Apo Reef. This work was offshore from 15 to 40 miles, necessitating observations distant from 15 to 55 miles. Favorable weather conditions permitted the development of numerous offshore shoals. Depths varying from 200 to 1,500 fathoms made up and down casts necessary, and the very regular bottom required a closer development than is usual in such depths. The submarine sentry was used in localities where irregular bottom was found with excellent results in. locating shoals. By this means shoal areas missed by the lead were found. Inshore hydrography was executed in Coron Passage and off the east coast of Culion Island, Observations of currents were made at 16 stations. A northwestward current varying from lf to 5 knots was found to set from the Sulu Sea to Mindoro Strait. The automatic tide gau~e established in Port Uson on November 12, 1912, was still in operation at the close of the fiscal year. Readings for the reductions of soundings were taken from subsidiary staffs at various points. The vessel was in the field at the close of the year.
LH. C.
DENSON,

Commanding Steamer Pathfinder.]

SUMMARY oF RESULTs.-Bnse lines: 1 base line measured. Reconnoissance: 428 squure miles of area covered, 5 stations selected for secondary scheme, 20 lines of lnten톖slblllty determined. Trlungulutlon: 2,311 square miles of area covered, 56 signals und scufl'olds erected, 43 stations occupied for horizontal ineasures, 45 geographic positions determined. Azimuth: 1 station occupied for obser,톋tlons of azimuth. Topography: 320 squure miles of urea covered, 185 llllles of general coast line surveyed, 52 miles of rivers and creeks surveyed, 96 llllles of roads surveyed, 9 topographic sheets finished. Hydrography : 2,016 Bqunre miles of area sounded, 2,877 miles run while sounding, 26,514 soundings, 3 tide stations established, 10i hydrographlc sheets finished.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the steamer Pathfinder was in the survey of the southeast coast of the island of Minda nao m the vicinity of Mayo Bay, where operations were continued  until July 27. The steamer then proceeded to Davao Gulf for the Purpose of connecting the triangulation previously executed with a base. line that ha~ been measured ii:t Pujada Bay on the east coast of the island. Stations Sa.mal and S1gaboy of the previous work were
enga~ed

64

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIO SURVEY.

recovered and remarked and triangulation siguals were erected over them. The triangulation connecting Davao Gulf with Pujada Bay was finished by August 15 and work was resumed on the southeast coast of Mindanao between Luban Island and Cape San Augustin. 톣hen this was completed the survey to the northward of Mayo Bay was again taken up. From September 7 to October 6 work was in progress between Manay and Baculin Point. Owing to a reported uprising among the mountain tribes back of Baganga it was regarded as unsafe to send parties into the interior and the season's work in this locality was then closed. A severe typhoon was experienced on October 15 and 16 while in Cebu Harbor. Although many vessels were lost the Pathfinder suffered no serious damage. The two launches belonging to the vessel were sunk, but one of them was afterwards recovered. During the storm the crew of the Pathfinder rendered valuable assistance in saving life and property at grea.t personal risk. On dctober 23 work was taken up on the unfinished portion of the west coast of N egros between Binalbagan and Sojoton Point. While engaged in this region the steamer encountered three typhoo:ps, one of which made it necessary for the vessel to put to sea, as a harbor could not be reached. On December 5 the survey of the west coast of Negros was finished, and on December 19 the vessel sailed from . Manila for Hongkong for necessary repairs. At the beginning of the calendar year the steamer Pathfinder was at Hongkong and arrangements were in progress for making extensive repairs, a special appropriation of $20,000 having been made for the purpose. All the repairs were satisfactorily completed on April 2 and on April 8 the steamer left Hongkong for Manila arriving therr on April 11. The steamer arrived at the workin~ ground on May 18 and field operations were commenced the followmg day. A base line of 4,4W meters in length was measured at the head of Bislig Bay on the east coast of Mindanao from which a triangulation was extended northward as far as Lamon Point. The topographic work was completed from Point Sanco to a point about 6 miles northward of the mouth of the Ninatuan River. The inshore hydrography was completed between Point Sanco and Lamon Point and the offshore work was carried from Point Sanco to the junction of the previous work in Lianga Bay and extending offshore approximately 20 miles. At the close of the year this work was still in progress.
[W. M. HILL.]
STATIONS occuPrno.-Atlmonun, Antlpolo, Bone, Butuun, Calapan, Calbayog, Catbulogan, Cebu, Cujo, Davao, lllgan, Lucena, Musbute, Mlsamls, Puerto Prlncesu, San Jose de Buennvlsta, Suriugao, Tucloban, Vallehermosa.

The magnetic survey of the Philippine Islands begun during the last fiscal year was in progress on July 1. In the execution of this work an attempt was made to relocate and reoccupy old stations that had been established many years previously. In many cases the marks could not be found and owing to the <lestruction of the reference points there was not sufficient data tu relocate the exact spots where observations had been made. Whenever conditions were favorable, however, observations were mad~ fiQ

15
JIT'
118"

no

,

...

....

,...

....

....

,,..

m

IDIIT1W STATES COAST A11!D GEODETIC SURVEY

SKETCH OF GENERAL PROGRESS

PIDLIPPINE ISL.ANDS
I
J1ll(E

3Q.l913

...

O Batan lsland.8

..

I
i;,

I
I
I

I.
1
<"1
~

'o<)~

~detn"lhination...

Lon!fi.tude .4zinwJh
7즔a;[~dion,T.

(tzkynvJUe I

t
.....

.J/D.gndit

~wdion.a

렁렁-렁렁

"flians"'4tion
TUJ>V9n~plry

1:M
~

.

--r

l{.wJroa"'j'hy z,,,,,,-~

. J----t---+-------t----t---t---1

~1-~

1.-1-----+- ~--+----+-----+

--t----t--~-t--__,

렁

11

L

U

' S 'E

A

......

m

....

,

...

....

,...

House Doc. 400; 63d Co.ng., 2d. S.~'-- _

13

:
."'I"  :.  ....

.I

... " .. . .,

:!I)'

~

d .~

- - - 1 18'

PORTO RICO
.Prlm"?" :Prla~1!JU.httio11. S.0011doJ:y on.ti t~rt:Uuy 'J'l톓Lu'fJ./LaUJ'1

. "S!5:Jg_
~
:;.~::;:;::~:

Topo9ruph.Y . .. IIydro,9rapl\Y . D!p~1 SoundU19'"
Ali1 !Jl1111ic 0'1ervutior11 .

,JlJBJi: 30. J013

sa oo

30'

6700'

:Kl'

Wcnrt. of (i2:'Cf"..uwlch

GG'oo'

30'
t.UGllA\11!.0 "'IU r!!NT쥵 UY Tiie

ss'oo'
u . ~.~lOUXllCAI.

';Ufl!\'f.Y

House Doc. 400; 63d Cong. , 2d Soss.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

65

near to the old locations as not to practically affect the secular variation or change.  ' Observations, practically at the old locations, were made at San Jose de Buenavista, Vallehermosa, Cebu, Misamis, Suriagao, Iligan, Davao, Boac, Atimonan, Romblon, Calapan, Masbate, Calbayog, Tacloban, Catbalogan, Cujo, and Puerta Princesa. In addition to the occupation of old stations, in cases where the locations were not -suitable for future observations, new stations were  established at Misamis, Iligan, and Calbayog. The stations Butuan and Lucena were established at places not before occupied. The magnetic declination obtained at the town of Masbate on the east coast of Masbate Island was about 1 east, while it is said that on the west coast the variation is from 4 to 7 at certain points. Magnetic work in the Philippine Islands was c~osed by the observer on February 20.
PORTO RICO.

[R. L. FARIS.]

In March and April the inspector of magnetic work inspected the instruments, equipment, und operation of the Coast and Geodetic Suz:vey Magneti? .Observatory ~t Vie9.ues, P ..R. 1 and fou.!!-d .them to be m good condit10n and workmg satisfactorily. The bmldmgs are in good condition and well cared for.
[C. F. WOODYARD, GEORGE HARTNELL, and _FRANK NEUMANN.]

This observatory was in charge of Mr. C. F. Woodyard, magnetic observer, until his death on December 31. Work was suspended until the arrival of another observer, Mr. George Hartnell on January 18. Mr. Frank Neumann assumed charge on February 18.  The magnetograph and seismograph were in satisfactory operation throughout the year, with the exception noted, and the required scale-value determinations, absolute observations, time, seismological, and meteorolo~cal observations were made. Special rapid-rate registration was made on specified-term days from July to October in conformity with requests for international cooperation in connection with the Australasian Antarctic expedition, at that time engaged in magnetic work in the south polar regions. Special observations were also made at the time of the solar eclipse of October 10, 1912. Observations were made to secure additional data for an investigation concerning the cause of different values of Z-scale value resulting from deflections at different distances, and measurements were made for a further investigation of D-scale value. .A.bout 30 earthqu_akes were recorded during the year.
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

[J. C. GAUGER.]
square miles of area covered, 10 10 stations occupied for vertical llleasures, 28 geogr8:ph1c positions determined, 12 elevations determined trigono14877-18-5
SuMKABY OF REBULTs.-Trlangulatlon: 49 B~ons occupied for horizontal measures,

66

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

metrically. 'l'opogrnphy: 15 square miles of area surveyed, 28.4 miles of general coast line, 2 miles of shore llne of creeks, 1 mile of shore line of ponds, 48.4 miles of roads, 3 topographic sheets finished.

The triangulation on the north coast of the island of Maui, completed during the season of 1912, measures 14 miles along its axis and covers an area of 49 squa~e miles. The work is connected with four stations of the territorial survey. The original marks at many of these stations have been lost. The unsurveyed shore line on the north coast of Maui from Huelo to Kahului was completed by August 28, together with the inshore topography needed for chart purposes. The work was done on scales of 1/20,000 and 1/10,000. After closing work on the island of Maui preparations were begun for the survey of the island of Hawaii.
IE. R.
HAND.]

SUMM'ABY OF BEBULTS.-Triangulatlon : 75 square miles of area covered, 37 signal poles erected, 27 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 3 stations occupied for vertical measures, 50 geographic positions determined. Topography: 23.5 square miles of area surveyed, 99.3 miles of general coast line, 110 miles of roads and railroads, 7 topographic sheets fin1shed. 

The triangulation and topography of the island of Hawaii was taken up by this party in. continuation of the work begun by Assistant J. C. Gauger. Operations were commenced in the vicinity of Hilo. In the triangulation the lines of the old Hawaiian government surve7 were used m bases from which supplementary pomts were determmed for topographic control, and from the old ahd new stations intersection stations were located with a view to future use as hydrographic signals. All of the old stations were re-marked and descriptions of them prepared. In the tol?ography two sets of plane-table positions were determined with a view to their use by hydrographic parties. For this purpose were chosen conspicuous objects on cliffs, natural or artificial, and also points along the water lme which can be identified in future and whitewashed or otherwise marked. Points determined by the Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1900 which have been removed ana rebuilt were relocated trigonometrically. Of these Alia Point Light was the most important. Improvements at Hilo Harbor wer~ located on a topographical sheet. By December 31 work was completed as far as the town of Laupahoehoe. At the beginning of the year the party was engaged in extending the triangulation from a primary lme of the old Hawaiian system into the Laupahoehoe Valley for the control of the survey of that valley and for the location of a new lighthouse to be constructed there~ and for this pnrpose three triangulation stations were establishea. Continuing westward along the coast secondary stations were established along the sea, based on the Hawaiian triangulation, for the topographic control and for use as checks. In Kohala the primary line Puu o Nale to Kauhola was chosen and the scheme extended eastward as far as the islands of Honokea Gulch 'and westward so as to control the northwestern extremity of the island.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

67

All prominent artificial objects useful as aids to navigation or for hydrographic signals were determined by triangulation. All old primary stations near the coast were re-marked where necessary. Photographs were made to aid in the identification of the higher and more conspicuous stations. The shore line was completed a point east of Hilo westward to the town of Kawaihae. Prominent objects were located and signals erected for hydrographic work. Progress westward from W aipio Valley was made difficult by the high cliffs. Working westward from the Waimanu Valley the way was barred by a point jutting out into deep water. This difficult streteh of cliff line was finally completed, however.
[J. B. MILLER, Commanding Steamer Patterson.] 

SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Hydrograpby: 991 square miles of area covered, 1,986 miles run while sounding, 14,266 soundings, 5,499 positions determined, 2 tide stations established, 8 hydrographic sheets finished. Physical hydrography: :!.5 current stations occupied, 433 readings of current pole, 543 surface temperatures observed.

Between November 27 and March 31 the Steamer Patterson :.was engaged upon surveys in the Hawaiian Islands, and during that period completed the hydrography of the windward side of Maui Island,, and a portion of Penguin Bank, off the southwestern part of Molokai Island. The topography of Maui Island having been recently revised, it was possible to begin the work of sounding at once, using the signals erected by the topographic party. Work was begun at the limit reached by the steamer Patkftnder in 1900 at Kaanapali Landing (Kekaa Point), west Maui, and from there the inshore sounding and also the offshore sounding to a distance of 6 to 11 miles from the shore, was completed along the northwest, north, northeast, east, and southeast coasts as far as Kaupo Landing on the southeast coast, a distance of 76 miles. Included in the survey, amo_ng other features, were the approaches to Kahului, the entrance and anchorage at Hana Cove, and seYeral other landings of more or less importance or interest. For a distance of 21 miles on the- south Qoast of Maui the hydrography is incomplete. This portion is uninhabited and has no ports or landings. Sounding work was done off the island of. Molokai, on Penguin Bank, and an area of about 20 miles long and 7 miles wide was covered, lying directly in the track of interisland shipping. In the offshore soundings the lihes were spaced O:t tile following intervals: 25 to 35 fathoms, one-sixth mile; 35 to 100 fathoms, onethird 톗ile; 100 to 300 fathoms 1 mile; 300 to 1,000 fathoms, 2i miles. On doubtful spots and shoals special developments and detached soundings were made. Soundings were generally spaced at the same intervals along the lines except at critical plaoos where they were spaced one-sixteenth mile nnd closer. For the inshore soundings the lines were spaced one-eighth mile apart on the average and generally not cros...~d; at critical or important places, they were much closer and were crossed ; in Hana Cove they were run one thirty-second mile apart in both directions, '

6S

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND

GEODE~O

SURVEY.

Tides were observed with an automatic gauge at Kahalui Harbor on the north coast of Maui Island throughout the season, and a continuous series of one week was obtained at Hana Cove for comparison. The tides are very small and of little interest or importance except in Kahului Harbor, where the large ships have very scant depth for loading and sometimes load to within 1 or 2 feet of the bottom. The seiches and so-called tidal waves are of more importance. No tidal wave was registered on the gauge, but the seiches were registered continually, having a period of about one-third to one-half hour and a range of one-half to li- feet. Current observations were made at 15 stations around Maui and Molokai Islands. The results showed a strong current from the south, setting against the prevailing wind; on the east and west extremity of Molokai Island this current has a strength of 1 to 2 knots, while along the northern and southern coasts it is weak .and variable. The tide causes a slack in this current but does not reverse it, and the wind has little effect on it, but it seems to be affected by disturbances of the barometer.
[J. W. GREEN.]

The regular series of observations were continued at the Honolulu :Magnetic Observatory during the year. The magnetographs recording declination, horizontal intensity, vertical intensity, and temperature were in continuous operation. Special rapid-rate registrations were made on specified days. Hourly scalings were made from the niagnetowaph traces for each of the elements as well as maximum and mimmum values for each day. Absolute observations for the purpose of base-line determination were made once each week. Scale values of the variometers were deII termined once each month. The Milne seismograph was kept in continuous operation. The sensibility and period of the pendu]um were determined at intervals. Meteorological observations were made each day, and transits of stars were observed each week for chronometer corrections.
SPECIAL DuTY.
NEW YORK.

[E. G.

FISCHER

and G. W.

OLARVOE.]

In July an inspection was made of the tide station at Fort Hamilton, N. Y., and necessary repairs were made to the tidal indicator. A new fl.oat was톓nstalled and the indicator was adjusted and tested while in operation. The electric indicators at the Maritime Exchange and the Seamen's Friend Society's Institute in New York were also mspected. In September the electrical tide indicator at the American Seamen's Friend Society's Institute which had been put out of action by the cutting of an electric cable was thoroughly repaired and put in working order. The tide staff at the end of Pier 51, which had been destroyed, owing to its exposed situation, was not replaced. The electric cable was repaired and proper connections made. This work was done between September 5 and 9,

14
J61' 160'
159' 158'

Weitt c Grcenwioh

157.

156'

155'

OOAST AND OEODETIO '""ET

PROGRESS SKE T CH
( llm~aU톋n Go톏 ,.,im.eui Surveys a.l!to llhown,)
1'1.,flt톑ulation

J

.2.

HAWAIIAN IS LAND S
:Jbpogn. l.ph.Y
Hydrography

lJ<!,..pS~ Sdgs l .n11.9ilJ1dA de t rr111.U1.itlion (teW9rtyJhir1 +

A.ti1911et1 'c obset톢ntion.11
JU'NE 30. 191.:1

~

.::.......

:n

'Ih'o.ngu.la rion Tov og '(lpliy f lyrJ,,,,graphy
Alag11ff t i렁 <Jb8flr>'O.ll(U/ lf

~

o톙o

,---+-------izo"

-----------1--------110'
8 '30'

rroo"'V'-OAltlJ ""'h~텶J

렁 .,... ~l'l.Q.040<.\lt:A~ :lU"'l"

House Doc. 400; 63d Cone., 2d Sess.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
MARYLAND. [CHAS. C. YATES.]

69

Work was continued during the year in cooperation with the oyster survey commissions of the States of Maryland and Delaware. The work in Maryland consisted in the preparation for publication of charts showing the location of the oyster beds and of technical reports resulting from the survey of oyster beds. The report and charts for. Talbot County and Dorchester County were comyleted and filed with the Ma"ryland Courts and the Maryland Shel Fish Commission, thus opening to the public for the pur-  poses of oyster culture the last oyster producing counties of the State covered by the work of.the Maryland Oyster Survey. These reports were afterwards published. Progress was made in the preparation of a summary and index of all the publications of the Maryland Oyster Survey. For the De.laware Oyster Survey Commission a chart was prepared showing the plotted positions of all the new leased bottoms of 1911 and 1912 in addition to those of the original survey of 1910. This chart was signed by the commissioners and filed with the State librarian. A duplicate chart was retained to be filed in the archives of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. A report of work done by the commission was prepared and published. The officer in charge of this work laid out a marine trial course off Kent Island in Chesapeake Bay by request and at the expense of the Maryland Steel Co.  The trial course was established by measuring a base line on land exactly 1 nautical mile in length, which was parallel to the trial course in the water, and then marking the ends of this nautical mile base by range marks, at exactly riglit angles to the direction base, thus inter.cepting an exact nautical mile on the line of the trial course in the water. In accordance with instructions from the Superintendent the geographic position of the wireless station at Sparrow Point, Md.,, was determined; and afterwards a similar determination was maue of the position of the Marconi wireless tower on the American Building in the city of Baltimore. During the six months from January 1 to June 3() the preparation of two publications," Report of Delaware oyster survey co~mission" and" Summary of survey of oyster bars of Maryland 1906-1912," was completed, and the preparation of records of triangulation, hydrographic and other field work of the Maryland survey for filing in the archives of the Coast and Geodetic Survey at Washington was continued. In the course of this work many calls for geographic information were met at the office in Baltimore consultations were held with officials of the States of Maryland and Delaware on matters relating to oyster surveys, and. other miscellaneous duties were performed. At the end of the fiscal year the only work remaining to be done was a small amount of office work connected with the publications of the Maryland and Dela.ware surveys and the completion of the triangulation and hydrographic records for filing in the archives of the survey at Washington.

70

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

[H. G.

AVERS.]

Between February 21 and March 5 a line of levels was run to determine the elevation of a point near the new seismological observatory of Georgetown University. Two rodmen and a recorder, students of the university, were provided for this work without expense to the Government. The elevation is based upon a bench mark of the District of Columbia topographical survey located near the university rounds and about one-half mile from the observatory. The line o levels was run forward and backward between the two points.
[GEORGE

D.

COWIE.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTs.-Topography: 5 square miles of area surveyed, 1 topographic sheet finished.

At the request of the Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department a topographic survey was.made between November 25 and December 17 of the grounds of the Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, D. C., elevations being determined at intervals of 10 feet over the entire ground. This necessitated running a preliminary line of levels between established bench marks of the District of Columbia survey and a tem~orary bench mark on the laboratory grounds. The extreme difference of elevation was about 70 feet. Levels were run in loops so that a check was obtained on each section of the work. A plat of the survey was completed giving elevations every 10 feet, 10-foot contours, boundaries, and bench marks.
[0. B. FRENCH.]

SUMMARY OF BESULTs.-Reconnolssance: 75 square miles of area ~overed, 35 lines of intervislbllity determined, 11 points selected for scheme. Base lines: Secondary, length of 2! kilometers. Triangulation: 75 square miles of area covered, 11 slgnnl poles erected, 11 stntlons occupied for horizontnl measures, 35 geographic positions determined. Leveling: 25 elevations determined by leveling, 7 miles of levels run.

In September work was begun on a triangulation undertaken at the request of the Department of Justice for the purpose of accurately: locating and marking in a permanent ml!-nner the line of Florida Avenue. vVhile the monuments were being placed under the direction of the surveyor of the District of Columbia, a recon110issance was made and a comprehensive scheme of triangulation was executed covering the principal portion of the District of Columbia and connected with primary stations Hill, Capitol, and Theological Seminary. A number of intersection stations were observed and points located as near Florida A venue as possible for the purpose of connecting the traverse along Florida Avenue with the triangulation.  By the time the triangulation was finished the stone monuments had been set and the measurements between them . were proceeded with. These monuments were placed so that the ad1acent stones are intervisible, 5 being on the north side of Florida Avenue and 15 on the south side. Most of them are set in the sidewalk and all are in

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

71

the space between the curb and the property line. The stones are of ~amte 8 by 8 inches and 4 feet long set in concrete with t.op 4 t.o 6 mches below the sidewalk or ground. Each is covered with a castfron box with a lid which is set in the ground so as to afford ready access to the top of the stone and to protect the mark from wear and possible disturbance. The center of each station .is indicated by a. regular triangulation station mark set in a drill hole in the top of the granite post. Each is a bench mark as well as a station mark. The distances between the monuments were measured with an invar tape.  Precise levels were run in both directions over the whole line and each end connected with bench marks of the Coast and Geodetic Survey. At the east end a complete circuit was run in both directions from the Capitol bench mark alon~ North Capitol Street (connecting with the Printing Office bench mark) to Florida Avenue, to Fifteenth Street East and returning via Maryland Avenue to the Capitol bench mark. After getting the connection between the measured line along Florida A venue and the triangulation a small discrepancy in the measures was developed, making necessary the introduction of a baSe line into the scheme. A base was accordmgly measured in Potomac Park just southeast of the railroad. It was measured with two invar tapes and satisfactorily connected with the.triangulation. The final connection between the traverse and the triangulation is not yet  entirely completed. A number of points used by the United States En~neers in their work around the harbor were determined in position by triangulation. On June 16 work was begun on a r~vision of triangiilation of the Potomac River between the Aqueduct Bridge and Little Falls and six stations were selected. This work was in progress at the end of the.month.
VIRGINIA. [EARL F. CHUBOH.]

In October, in accordance w.ith the arrangement made with the Bureau of Lighthouses, the light vessels at Winter Quarter Shoal and Fenwick Island Shoal were visited; apparatus for making.current observations was installed and instructions were given the masters of those vessels as to the method of making the observations desired. It was intended that the series of observations should continue for three months. Transportation was furnished the officer on this duty by the lighthouse steamer Orchid.
[H. A. SER.AN.]

In March and April a number of objects on the north shore of Hampt.on Roads were determined in position for the use of ships anchoring in the naval anchorage grounds in Hampton Roads. The objects determined are prominent chimrnws, church spires, houses, and other objects readily identified. The triangulation of the southern branch of Elizabeth River was connected with that of Hampton Roads. The p~sition of the Bayville chimney in the vicinity of Cape Henry was determined by triangulation. This work was cl0sed on April 22.

72

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER COMMISSION.

[H. P. RrrrER.]

As authorized by law an officer of the Coast and Geodetic Survey continued to serve as a member of the Mississippi River Commission in addition to his other duties, and attended the meetings of the commission held at St. Louis, Mo., in July, August, and October.
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES.

[0. H. TITTMANN, Commissioner.]
UNITED STATES AND CANADA BOUNDARY.

[C.H.

SINCLAIR.]

SUMMARY OF BEBULTS.-Base lines: 1 base line measured. Triangulation: 1550 square miles of area covered, 3 signal poles erected, 12 observing tripods and scafl'olds built, 24 stations occupied for horizontal measures. Line measure and monumenting: 15 miles of double measure with invar tapes. 19 monuments set on bounding (Including 2 reference monuments).

Work on the forty-ninth parallel boundary between the United States and Canada east of the Rocky Mountains, between the Red River of the North and Lake of the Woods, was resumed in May, 1912. Work was begun at the terminal line of the Canadian work of the preceding season about 1 mile west of the Red River, and by June 30, 10 stations in the main scheme of triangulation and 9 subordinate stations had been occupied, 11ind 9 signal poles and 'l scaffold signals erected. The banks of the Red River in this region are lined with ta11 cottonwood trees through which it was necessary to cut in order to clear the lines of sight. A central point, the cupola of the town hall at Emerson, saved the clearing of two diag~nals in the quadrilateral. From a distance of 12 miles from Red River to the Lake of the Woods the country is covered with forest timber, necessitating the use of signals from 20 to 90 feet in heigqt for the triangulation. The distance between the monuments east of No. 58 was measured with a 50-Qletar invar tape, and the monuments were occupied to carry along the azimuth. It was found impracticable to accurately determine the positions of monuments in the woods in any other way. Between monuments 65 and 54 connection was made with the line States-Canada, the terminal of the ninety-eighth meridian triangulation by means of a 7-mi.le line Hui.nboldt-Qrleans, forming a quadrilateral to the south, and mcorporatmg the lme Furney-Joe, the south side of a quadrilateral in the regular scheme. This line, 11 miles long, was used as a base for the triangulation near Red River, and saved the measurement of a base and azimuth. Transportation was difficult owing to the swampy nature of the ground traversed and the absence of good roads. East of the Roseau River it was necessary to expand the schmne of triangulation and increase the height of the towers. As a terminal base nearly 6 miles long had been measured along the Canadian railway running north out of Warroad across the boundary it was thought best to occupy the base points first. The

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

73

signals were first raised to a height of 7o feet, and later on South Base was carried up 90 feet in order to see over the tall trees to the west and reach points about 20 miles distant on the shores of Lake of the Woods and furnish a line for the Canadian triangulation that was being carried from the North West Point, along the Water boundary, to th0' mouth of Rainy River. Eight towers from 65 to 90 feet in hei~ht were erected by a special signal building party. Sixteen signals from 30 to 55 feet high and one 22 feet high were put up by the members of the regular triangulation party. A signal pole 100 feet in height was erected over astronomical station Sprague. The latitude and longitude of Sprague, which is about 2 miles north of the boundary, were determined by the Canadian surveyors. .  Monuments were taken to their final sites in the spring of 1912, together with sand for setting them, but the cement could not be left exposed so long and was taken in at the time that the monuments were set. This proved a laborious task where horses could not be used. . An azimuth was determined at South Base, Warroad, early in October, and referred to Buffalo Point, 6.5 miles distant, a station .in the triangulation. After the reconnoissance and signal building were completed to the west edge of the Lake of the Woods: it was found that two lines were obstructed by tall trees on a ridge about 3 miles west of the Warroad base, and owmg to the lateness of the' season the clearing of these lines was not attempted and work was closed early in November. In March two members of the party were sent to Warroad to set monuments on the meridian boundary before the melting of the ice, and also to place monuments at right angles to the meridian for the purpose of marking the intersection of the north and south boundary and the boundary running southeastward. The position of this intersection point had been temporarily located by Mr. E. C. Barnard in 1912. On the ice there was very little difficulty in finding this point and locating it permanently by means of reference monuments in firm ground. These reference monuments are similar in every respect to the regular boundary monuments except that they have no lettering on them but the words" Reference Mark." The meridian line from monument 1 to monument 7B was measured twice with an invar tape. Four monuments were set on the Parallel Boundary. Good foundations were found for all of these monuments by digging down to firm clay. One observer had charge of the triangulation and tape measurement necessary to fix the position of the North West Angle, and another had charge of the reconnoissance, transportation, and signal building. At Fort Frances a base was laid out and a tower 80 feet high was erected at each end. Towers were built on Lake of the Woods at stations Gould, Long Point, and Big and poles were erected at Burton and Oak to furnish control for the topography as far as the mouth of Rainy River. The heights of the towers constructed ranged from 60 to 85 feet. In order to complete the triangulation of the forty-ninth parallel west of the Warroad base a tower was erected and occupied at Guibo, and Sandy and Salo! were reoccupied to strengthen the determination

74

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY

The tower at West Base, which had been destroyed by a storm, was reerected; three towers were constructed in the vicinity o:f Rainy Lake, and a reconnoissance was made down Rainy River. All of the observations at the stations on Lake of the Woods were completed by June 20. On June 25 a base 8,062 meters in len~h was measured along the south rail of the Canadian Northern Railway west of Fort Frances, Ontario, 'using two invar tapes, the measurements being made in opposite directions. Mr. I. Pounder, representing the British commissioner, assisted in the base measurement. An inspection was made of the entire length of Rainy River to obtain information necessary for the extension of the triangulation.
[E. 0. BABNABD.]
SUMMA.BY OF BESULTs.-Reconnolssunce: Length of scheme 15 miles, 9 points selected for scheme. Trlnngulutlon : Primary, 9 stations selected, 2 signals erected, 6 primary and 12 secondary stations occupied for measurements of horizontal angles. Leveling: 155.5 miles of levels run, 74 permanent and 100 temporary bench marks established. Topography: 209.5 square miles of area surveyed, 95 miles of topographic belt alQng boundary, 100 squnre miles of planetable triangulation. Boundary location: 102 miles of boundary located, 82.5 miles of vista cut, 76 monument sites recovered, 14 new monument sites located. These statistics include some work done in the spring of 1012.

of Sprague, the Canadian latitude and longitude station.



The work of surveying and marking the boundary between the United States and Canada east of the summit of the Rocky Mountains was in progress at the beginning of the fiscal year. The work of this party included the topograpliy1 interpolation of monument sites, vista cutting, and leveling. Durmg the season of 1912 these operations were completed from monument 70 on the west bank of Red River to monument 1 on the west shore of the Lake of the Woods and from the northwestern point of Lake of the Woods south to monument 7A. A part of this work has _already been mentioned in the last annual report.  On June 30 the topographic work had advanced to monument 31, a distance of 39 miles along the boundary, 78 ~uare miles having been mapped; the leveling to monument, 25, a d1st!mce of 44 miles along the boundary, 88 miles of levels havi.ng been run; and the vista cutting to monument 28, 41 miles alon~ the boundary. During the months of February and March precedrng the iron monuments, weighing 400 pounds apiece with the necessary sand for the concrete foundation, nearly 1 ton in all to each monument, had been placed at the monument sites between Great Roseau Swamp and Lake of the Woods, the swamp being impassable for horses m the summer. On July 17 the chief of party proceeded to Warroad Minn., and had a conference with the Canadian surveyor, Mr. J. J. McArthur2 and with him inspected the conditions at Northwest Angle, Lake ot the Woods. During the temporary disability of the levelman, Mr. J. L. Rannie, the Canadian surveyor, rendered valuable aid in the leveling work. Some triangulation stations were selected and signals were erected on the western shore of the Lake of the Woods. Assistance was ren-

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

75

dered to the American party 'engaged in measuring base lines along the boundary and also to the party engaged in signal building for the triangulation party. All of the. work on the forty-ninth parallel was completed on September 18 and the party proceeded to Warroad, Minn., on the Lake of the Woods, where power boats were hired for the transportation of the party and supplies. Instructions had been received to make a detailed map of the section of the Northwest Angle extending from the northwest point to monument 1. Diligent search was made for some mark in the vicinity of the northwe&t point, the location of which was determined by measuring from monument 1 the distance recorded in the report of the former commission~ but nothing was found but a tripod 350 feet northwest of the point\ erected in 1872 by the former commission, and which was still standing. . While camped on Harrison Creek, a base line 2732 feet in length, for contror of the detailed map on scale of 400 feet to 1 inch, was measured with an 'invar tape, and a plane-table triangulation was expanded to the northwest point. A flag was set in the center of the channel on the extension of the north and south line from monument 1 to mark the most southerly intersection of the water boundary with the north and south boundary line, and a second flag was erected to mark the north and soutli boundary line near the northwest point_. Toward the end of September a trip was made to the boundary line crossing on Stony Creek and the vista along the boundary cut m 1873 was found to be still clear of timber. On September 4 and 5 soundings were taken in th.e channel of Bear Creek, and the soundings were located on the plane-table sheet. . From monument 7 southward to the point where the north and south boundary line intersects the Lake of the 'Voods, a distance of 7 miles, the vista along the line had been cut, but apparently no permanent marks had been left and no record of any marks nor of dis~ tances on this section of the boundary is to be found in the report of the former commission. It was therefore necessary to extend the north and south boundary; line and to locate additional monument sites to the south. For this purpose a 20-foot tower was erected over the site of monument 6 which stood on a high granite ledge. From the top of this tower monument 7 to the south as well as the signals erected over monuments 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 were visible. The vista cutting was extended to the south across Stony Creek and the monument site for 7B was located by the extension of the line north of monument 6. The site for monument 7A, which was not visible from the tower at monuinent 6, was located by a line of si~ht from monument 7 . to monument site 7B. The triangulation stations-New Rice, Old Rice, Pine, and New Loon, which had been established by the Canadian party in connection with the survey of the water boundary: and monument 1, were occupied by the Canadian surveyor, Mr. J. L. Rannie, to connect the north and south boundary line with the system of triangulation through the lake as well as to determine the position of the flag marking the intersection of the water boundary with the north and south lme. Observations of azimuth were made by the same officer at the triangulation station New Rice to determine the azimuth of the north and south boundary line. The distances between the monuments on the north and south line were measured with an invar tape.

76

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT,텰OAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

On October 16 the levelman and one hand were sent westward along the boundary to determine and stamp all of the permanent bench marks that had been set in the monuments up to that date. Supplies of sand were placed at the point on Stony Creek selected for wmter operations. The main party was disbanded about the middle of October, but some field work of leveling and topography was done until December 1. During the winter the .placing of monuments and of cement and sand for the concrete foundation was continued. In January, 1913, the work was begun of transporting to the proper localities the cast-iron monuments and sand and cement for the foundations on the north and south boundary line from the northwest angle south to the Lake of the Woods, and the distances along the boundary between the monuments were measured in both directions with an invar tape under tension. After the completion of thi's work certain monuments were transported to their proper .Positions on the forty-ninth parallel boundary line and a 20-foot '\1'1sta was opened along the north and south boundary from monument 70 south to the Lake of the Woods, a distance of 4-! miles. Bench marks were established at a distance of 5 miles apart for the entire lenirt,h of Rainy Lake and Lake N amakin and a bench mark was establiShed on Lake of the Woods near Zipple. The elevations of these bench marks above the water level of the lake were determined by leveling. Tide gauges at Warroad on Lake of the W'oods, at Ramer on Rainy Lake, and near Kettle Falls on Lake Namakin were read during the operation of placing these bench marks. Some of the leveling was done at a temperature of 40 below zero, Fahrenheit. A level line was also run from the tide gauge near Kettle Falls at the head of Rainy Lake to the tide gauge on Lake N amakin, a distance of 3 miles. After the completion of the work mentioned and the location of the boundary from monument 70 to the shore of the Lake of the Woods the topography along the north and south boundary line' and along the shore westward from Stony Point was ,taken up. ork was completed to the Lake of the Woods on ,Tune 18 and was begun on Ramy Lake on June 24. Triangulation was begun on Rainy Lake on June 1 and bv the end of the month the reconnoissance had been completed as far as Brule Narrows about halfway up the lake. A detailed survey on a scale of 1/5,000 was made of the portion of Rainy River extending below the dam at Internationa~ Falls to above the railroad bridge at Ranier. For the control of this work a base line 4,000 ieet in length was measured and the triangulation extended to locate t'he necessary boundary reference points along the river. By the -close of the year the topographic mapping was completed along the north and south boundary line from.monument 70 to Lake Shore and from Stony Point along the west and south shore of Lake of the Woods to and including the mouth of Rainy River, scale 1/45,000, a distance of 70 miles along shore. A detailed topographic map of Four Mile Bay, mouth of Rainy River, Lake of tlie Woods, on a scale 1/20,000, were also completed. Mr. I. R. Pounder, representing the British commis'sioner, jqined the party on June 10 and assisted in the triangulation.

"r

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY, [0. B. FRENCH.)

77

Sul.111.lABY OF BESULTs.-Base. lines: 10 secondary, measured, aggregate length 29,391 meters. Trlnngulutlon: 27 squure miles of area covered, 31 signal poles erected, 28 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 21 stations occupied for vertical measures, 13 geographic positions determined, 12 elevutlons determined trigonometrically. Leveling: 600 elevations determined by leveling, 18.02 miles of levels run.

The party engaged in measuring base lines on the boundary the United States and Canada was on July 1 engaged in the final details connected with the measurement of a base at Souris, S. Dak. From this place the party went"to Sherwood, N. Dak., where an extra base was measured and connected with the line Morse to Center about 10 miles west of Sherwood. This base was made necessary by failure to recover the stations selected before taking the field. The next base measured was at Portal, N. Dak., after which in turn were measured the Ross, Knute, Ogden, Green, Sowers, Kirk, St. Mary.s, and Warroad bases, the last being completed August 26. An officer was engaged in completing the levels along the Warroad base until the end of August. All base lines were measured with invil.r tapes which were standardized before and after the field work. They were used with supports at 25-meter intervals on most of the 톌ases. When the wind was strong two extra supports were inserted.1 making the intervals 12i meters. Where the bases were measured. along a railroad the tape rested along one of the rails for its whole length. A double line of levels was run over each base line to give elevations for reduction to a horizontal line and also for reduction to sea level, vertical angles being also measured for this purpose when necessary. All base lines were carefully marked with both surface and underground marks.
betw~n
[F. D. GRANGER.)

SUMMABY OF BESULTs.-Hydrogrnphy: 27 square mtles of nren sounded, 264 mtles run wh1le sounding, 908 positions determined, 11,397 soundings, 2 permanent und 5 temporary tide stations established, 4 hydrogrnphic sheets finished.

The party engaged in the survey of the boundary between the United States and Canada from the northwestern angle of Lake of the Woods and to the southward along that lake was in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year. 톂his.party was under the charge of Mr. J. J. McArthur of the Canadian boundary survey. Mr. F. D. Granger, who had been detailed to this party as the representative of the United States commissioner, remamed on this duty until the close of the season in November. On July 1 the survey of the boundary had been carried only a few miles do'Wn Northwest Angle Inlet from the starting point at Northwest Angle. Weather conditions were generally unfavorable to such a degree as to retard the progress of the work. The entir~ distance along the boundary covered by the triangulation and topography was 25 miles. In addition to the triangulation above mentioned n lai:ger scheme expanding from the smaller in the vicinity of American Point and Oak Island was planned, but little progress was made in its execution. One of the objects of the" larger scheme was to cover the lower por-

78

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

tion of the lake and at the sam~ time make connection with the boundary triangulation in the vicinity of Warroad, Minn., and Buffalo, Ontario, brought from the west along the forty-ninth meridian by one of the American boundary parties.  Following the small scheme of triangulation along the boundary reference marks for defining the exact position of the line were placed at various points between Northwest Angle and the easternmost point of Oak Island (Island No. 1) . As the precise location of the boundary from Island No. 1 to the north of the Rainy River depends upon the interpretation the commissioners may put upon the wording of the treaty defining it, no reference marks were set below the easternmost point of Island No. 1. The reference marks usedJ all of which were connected with the triangulation, were bars of iron 2 inches square and 45 inches long, with sharp pyramidal top, and were each, set in a bed of concrete 2 feet square by 3 feet deep.  While the other work was in progress a hydro~phic survey of the lake along the boundary was made by the Amencan surveyor. Mr. Granger returned to Warroad on April 29 to make preliminary arrangements necessary for resuming field operations. Field work was begun on May 27 at Bear Island, Ontario, and from that date to the close Of the fiscal year the triangulation, topography, and hydrography were advanced as rapidly as possible.
[W. B.
FAIRFIELD.]

SUMMARY oF BEBULTs.-Reconnoissance: 00 points selected for scheme. Triangulation: 29.2 square miles of area covered, 282 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 107 stations occupied for vertical measures, 347 geographic positions determined, 196 elevations determined trigonometrically. Azimuth: 4 azimuth Btations occupied, azimuth observed on 9 nights. Topography: 45 square miles of area surveyed, 41.5 miles of boundary surveyed, 81.15 mlles of shore line of rivers antl creeks, 12 topographic sheets finished.

The party engaged in the survey of the international boundary between the United States and Canada from Pi~eon River and the Lake of the Woods was in the field at the beginning of the fiscal year. The work had been resumed on June 9 on Round Lake and was carried on continuously until October 29, when the party was . disbanded at Prairie Portage on North Lake. The triangulation was taken up at Round Lake and continued to the westward as far as the western end of Knife Lake, including all of the lakes, rivers, connecting streams, and divides along the boundary. Owing to the dense growth of timber it was necessary to reduce the size of the scheme in several places, and much cutting was necessary at nearly all of the stations. ' 'Saganaga Lake is a large irregular-shaped body of water with large bays extending to the east into Canada and to the south into Minnesota. It is the largest lake along the boundary west of Lake Superior and contains many islands. The shores of the lake are steep and rocky with wooded bluffs from the water's edge. Several soundings were 톗ade in the main part of the lake, the greatest depth recorded being 104 feet.  Swamp Portage across the southern part of Hunters Island and connecting Swamp Lake with Cypress Lake leads over a rocky ridge

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

79

60 feet high at its highest point and heavily wooded; it is about 420 meters long. There is no water communication between Swamp and Cypress Lakes, the portage trail being the most direct route between the two lakes. From Swamp Lake the water flows easterly into another small lake, thence into Saganaga, but the flow of water is very small. The waters of Cypress Lake flow westerly into Knife Lake. Cypress Lake is a very long narrow body of water with high rock cliffs on either shore. These cliffs rise to height of from 100 to 200 feet.  Little and Big Knife Lakes are virtually one lake, the connecting stream being some 60 meters wide and 200 meters long with no percetitible current. There are several large bays or arms extending from Big Knife Lake both into Canada and Minnesota, one especially large on the Minnesota side extending 4 or 5 miles below the boundary. A dam was built about four years ago by one of the Minnesota lumber firms at the west end of Big Knife Lake which has raised the water level of the lake 4 or 5 feet. The topography, consisting of the shore line of all the lakes, islands, rivers, and connecting streams, together with the topography of the portages and divides, was carried on at the same time with the triangulation. The scale of the survey was 1/20,000, but all narrow places, lakes.; connecting streams, portages, and divides were surveyed on a scale or 1/5,000. Observations for azimuth were made at triangulation stations Care, Ca;mp Dolores, and Engle. The triangulation stations were marked in a permanent manner, 85 with brass plates set in the rock, and 197 with drill holes in the rock with a triangle cut around them. Mr. John J. Phelan, assistant surveyorJ executed all of the topography and assisted in the other work of the party. Work was resumed near Winton, Minn., on May 21 and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
[J. B. BAYLOR.]
SUMMARY OF BESULTs.-Llne measure along boundary with lnvar tape 31.5 miles. Leveling: 37 miles of levels run. Topography: 33.37 square miles of area surveyed, 22 miles of shore line of creeks, 10 miles of roads, ll topographic sheets finished. These statistics Include work done In the spring of 1912.

The party en~aged in the survey and monumenting of the portion of the international boundary line separating the State of Maine from the Province of Quebec was at work durmg the season of 1912 in the section between Lake Pohenagamook and the northwest branch of the St. John River. At the same time a Canadian party was at work on different portions of this section of the international boundary, which run~ in a straight line for. 64 miles through an almost unbroken forest. . The region is remote and transportation difficult, as the boundary line can be reached along the greater part of its length only by means of trails which had to be cut through the forest, crossing bottomless bogs in many places. The use of drags was necessary for the transportation of outfit and supplies.

80

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, .COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

A 30-foot lane was cut through the woods along the boundary, the trees being cut off close to the ground and removed from this lane in order that the tape measurements might be made and the stakes necessary for the measures driven in position and their levels taken. About every 800 -or 1,000 feet~along this straight line narrow lanes were cut through the forest at right angles to the boundary line for a distance of about 3,000 feet on each side of it톓n order to bring out the contours and other topographic features. During the progress of the work the American and the Canadian parties were in frequent communication. The cast-iron monuments placed by the commission of 1842 were reset in cement with appropriate lettered cement bases, and additio톋l cement monuments with similar bases were placed on the prominent hills, so as to be easily intervisible for the entire length of the line so far as completed. Forty-eight of the old cast-iron monuments were reset where necessary during the season. Field work was closed on November 18. Work was resumed about the middle of May at a point west of the main branch of Black River. Topographjc work, staking, and line measurement were begun May 26. By June 30, 9i square miles of topography on a scale of 1/20,000 had been completed and 40 boundary monuments had been set. A 30-foot vista was cleared along the boundary as far as Quam River.
[J. E. l\!CGBATH.]
SUMMARY OF BESULTs.-Reconnolssance: 18 square miles of areu covered, 201 lines of lntervislblllty determined, 98 points selected for scheme. Base lines, secondary length of, 756 meters. Triangulation: 18 square miles of area covered, 83 signal poles erected, 82 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 134 geographic posltlqns determined, 15 days occupied in marking nnd monumenting stations. Leveling: 619 meters of levels run. Topography: 2.5 square miles of area surveyed, 6 miles of general coast line, 16 miles of shore line of rivers, 2.4 miles of shore line of creeks, 1 mile of ponds, 4 topographic sheets finished.

The survey and marking of the boundary line between the United States and Canada in the valley of the St. Croix River was in progress at the beginning of the fiscal year near the mouth of Mo1mment  Stream. Owing to. the narrow water shed and densely wooded character of the country through which Monument Stream runs, it was impracticable to carry a scheme of triangulation more than 1! miles up the stream. The last station for this class of work was Cropley, which is about 2,400 meters from North Lake. Between Cropley and Birch the distances depend upon a single triangle with a stadia-measured base. At Birch advantage was taken of the width of the valley to extend upward to Moose, another piece of triangulation, depending for lengths on a short base measured with a steel tape. From Moose a traverse line in which the distances were measured with a steel tape was extended to Po:r>lar, a point located in 1891. The work was continued onward from Poplar by a traverse in which the distances were obtained by reciprocally measured stadia observationsl checks being furnished by connection with Hornet determined by triangulation in 1891 and Poplar Mt. determined trigonometrically in 1912. These three stations divide the distance depending on traverse measure~

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

81

ments symmetrically. The work closed on Poplar Mt., and later in the season the Canadian party measured a traverse line from the Initial Boundary Monument at the head of the St. Croix River to Poplar Mt. trian~lation station and to Avernus, the latter being the last traverse station determined by the American party in 1912. At all of the regular stations in the triangulation and traverse work done by the American party signals were set up, and angles were measured at each point. Flags were set along Monument Stream at the estimated center of each point and bay, and from each of the regular marked stations stadia readings were made and angles measured so that all of these flag-marked points were located. At each of the regular instrument stations along the stream a permanent mark was left except at two points, where the ground is swampy. At both of these stat10ns, however, permanently marked points are not more than 200 meters distant. At most of the stations above Hornet the station marks are bronze bolts set in rock ledges, in bowlders, or in granite posts embedded in cement. On the return of the party after closing work at Poplar Mt. boundary marks were set at pornts shown on the topographic sheets at Duck Point._ mouth of Scott Brook, near the Steep Banks, near Meeting House ~ock, opposite old Keene farmstead, and a.t Ca.bin. At Grand Falls the St. Croix Paper Co. has begun the construction of a new power dam which will impound the river at the foot of the upper pitch of Grand Falls. Because of uncertainty as to the level to be reached by the back water at Spednfo and of the danger that seems to threaten Spednic South and Spednic North station marks, Cabin station, on top of a rocky ledge 5.8 feet above Spednic South was referred to Spednic South and Spednic North, and a bronze bolt was centered in the ledge as a station mark. At Calais connection was made between Harrison triangulation station and the monuments of a recent survey of property lines in the vicinity of Eaton's and Murchies' saw mills.  Besides the work mentioned 8 stations were occupied between Milltown, Me., and Milltown, New Brunswick, for location of additional structural and topographic details; a. trip was made to Woodland, Me., to examine the condition of signals erected along the river in 1911; arrangements were made for a supply of cement and sand !lnd for setting reference marks; and reference marks were established at station No. 11 and at three other points. On October 5 a visit was made to the site of the new dam to ascertain how near the structure would approach the station me,rks established in that vicinity and to obtain other necessary information. Work in the field was closed on October 6. On June 25 work was begun with a reconnoissance for the recovery of the stations which had been marked at various times at the head of the St. Croix River. Several signals were erected and connection was made by vertical angle measurements between the elevation at Pole Hill and points near the Initial Monument. . A plane-table survey was begun at the Initial Monument, which is intended to show the features of Monument Stream in all detail practicable on a scale of 1/10,000. The work was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.
14877-18--6

82

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
A.LASKA BOUNDARY. fTHOMAB RIGGS, Jr.]

SUHHA..RY OF BEBULTB.-Triangulation: 16 signuls erected in main scheme and 8 at line stations, 77 stations occupied for horizontal measures, 78.75 miles of triangulation belt completed. Magnetic work: 6 stations occupied for observations of magnetic declination. Line projection : 25.6 miles of boundary line rnn. Topography: 톑41 square miles of area covered, 239 miles of traverse run, 47 miles of topographic belt completed.

The party engaged in the survey and demarcation of the northern pa,rt of the boundary line b~t~een Alaska and Canada al~ng the one hundred and forty-first meridian resumed work in the sprmg of 1912 so that a portioD" of this work was done in the last fiscal year. In order, however, to give a connected account of what was done it will be necessary to recount briefly the movements of the boundary party previous to July 1, 1912. At the close of the surveying season in 1911 owing to an epidemic of smallpox among the natives, none of the fiefa parties were allowed to come to the Rampart House, and in consequence practically all of the stores for the following winter were piled on the bank of the Porcupine River. Mr; W. B .. Reaburn, surveyor, was left in charge at Rampart House with five other men charged with the duty of storing the outfit during the winter and to forward such supplies along the boundary as would be needed in the spring. He was also charged with the issuing of supplies to the Indians and with taking the launch Midni[!ht Sun out on the ways and making the necessary repairs. With hun were left Dr. G. T. Smith, surgeon, a foreman, an engineer for the launch, a pilot, and a cook. During the early part of the winter the launch was repaired, the outfit overhauled, wood cut for fuel, and an inventory made of all stores and equipment. The Canadian Government had built a hospital on Edmonds Island for the Indians affected with the smallpox in order that no one except the doctor should come in contact with them. Instructions were given the American party, with a view to maintaining a quarantine and preventing the spread of the disease. On February 2 two men were sent to Fort Yukon from Rampart House with mail and instructions to bring back supplies. In early April supplies were taken out along the boundary trail_ as far as Surprise Creek and when the ice in the Porcu:pine River broke up the launch was dispatched with 10 tons of supphes for the Old Crow River. On the high water the Midmght Sun was able to get up this river to the point where the trail leaves the river and heads across the flats for Ammerman Mountain. The temperature was carefully recorded throughout the winter, which was of unprecedented mildness, the lowest recorded temperature being only -50. A copy of the record of temperature and precipitation was furnished for transmission to the Weather Bureau. Under instructions from the commissioner, the chief of the boundary party left Washington March 26 and proceeded to Ottawa for a fiD.al conference with the Canadian boundary surveyor. From Ottawa he proceeded to San Francisco, where arrangements were made with the Northern Navigation Co. for the transportation of men, supplies, and horses from Dawson to Rampart House on the Porcupine River.  

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

83

The party, consisting of 18 men, sailed from Seattle on the steamer The 34 horses were taken on the same vessel. The party arrived at Skagway on May 4 and at White Horse on May 6, . To gain about three weeks over the usual opening_of navigatjon through the lakes and the upper river the party left White Horse on foot on May 10 for Carmacks, 150 miles distant and well below the dangers of navigation, with such wagons as were necessary to trans])Ort the baggage. and instruments. The chief of party and the Canadian surveyor left White Horse for Dawson the next day. A cache of 8 tons of grain and the saddles for the horses, which had been left at Coffee Creek at the close of the preceding season, were found to have been destroyed by a forest fire. Of the grain not more than 500 pounds were fit for use. At Dawson arrangements for transportation were completed and other details arranged. The party arrived at Dawson May 22 and transferred to the steamer St. Michael the same afternoon, leaving that evening at 9 o'clock. At Circle City they met the steamer Tanana and the stock barge which was to take both the Canadian and the American party to Rampart House. The launch Midni.qht Sun and the poling boat Polaris had already begun operations on the Old Crow. Depots of food and provisions had been established between Rampart House and the Old Crow, so that the parties could go through to the base camp on that stream without stopping to relay supplies.  On June 1 the first parties left for the field of operations, Messrs, Gilmore and Ryus leaving with their pack trains with instructions to make the Old Crow and thence to relay provisions as long 11.s the Davidson Mountains remained impassable. On June 3 Messrs. Guerin and Reaburn started with the remainder of the stock and all . the supplies which were to be taken from Rampart House during the season. On June 7 Mr. Craig dispatched two men with a pack train of dogs to Herschel Island, where they were to establish the heliotrope station, with which it was hoped that connection could be made some time during the summer.  A joint party headed by Mr. Riggs and Mr. Craig, the Canadian surveyor, was delayed at Rampart House until June 14. On June 19 they arrived at the Old Crow, remaining there one day to direct the movement of the launches and poling boats. Altogether, there were now about 60 tons of supplies inside the bar at the mouth of the Old Crow and at other points up the river.  The .party crossed the Davidson Mountains and after a two days trip camped at the American cache on the north bank of the Firth River.  During the journey from the Porcupine River the monumenting and topography of the previous season were inspected and sites were selected for the interpolation of additional monuments where needed. On June 30the party moved to Joe Creek, a tributary of the Firth, there finding Mr. Lambart, the Canadian surveyor in charge of the stadia and monumenting, and accompanied him along the line, selecting monument sites between Joe Creek and the next large unnamed tributary to the north. Camp was made 12 miles east of the line, The British Mountains were crossed about 7 miles east of the bound
Jefferson on April 29.

84

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

ary. A party under Mr. Ryus made a dangerous crossing on the ice to Herschel Island, in the hope of obtaining medical assistance for Mr. Reaburn, who had been taken ill. The reconnoissance and line projection were afterwards continued by Mr. Riggs, in conjunction with the Canadian surveyor, Mr. Craig. In the meanwhile Mr. Gilmore was continuing the triangulation and occupied stations on the summit of the British Mountams. Mr. Guerin and Mr. Ryus were engaged in topographic work. On July 13 camp was moved to the Clarence River near station Z of the boundary, and on the 17th to a point 4 miles to _the northward. On July 18 the party reached the shores of the Arctic Ocean. After setting the boundary signal the reconnoissance and triangulation were continued. A signal was placed at Demarcation Point on a slight elevation near where a spit runs around Beaufort Bay. On July 23 a reconnoissance and triangulation were begun to the eastward to connect with Herschel Island. After reaching the mouth of Malcomb River progress was interrupted by storms, and as the provisions were getting low the attempt to determine a point on Herschel Island was abandoned. On the return the stadia party was met at the boundary. One of the 5-foot aluminum bronze sectional monuments was in place. The topography was also completed to the coast. The topography of the ocean shore was extended eastward to Clarence Bay and westward to include Demarcation Point and Beaufort Bay. Some triangulation along the coast was done, but progress was retarded by unfavorable atmospheric conditions. While the party was at the shore camp observations were made with. a staff gauge of the rise and fall of the tides. On the return journey, while at Joe Creek, the party met Mr. Copley Amory, jr., and one man who had come into the country. to collect specimens for the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Amory accompanied the party back as far as the Old Crow River. The parties arrived at Rampart House on August 16, at Skagway on October 7, and at Seattle on October 12. Here the party was disbanded. .  Canadian parties.-The chief of party was Mr. J. D. Craig, D. L. S., who maintained general supervision of field work. The line projection was carried on Jointly with an American party, J. D. Craig observing for the Canadians and Thomas Riggs, jr., for the Americans. There were two Canadians and four Americans in the party. Vis ta cutting, monumenting, and stadia worlc.-One party under Frederick Lambart, D. L. S., ran stadia and placed monuments from the point where the work had been dropped in 1911 to the Arctic Ocean. 'Another party under Douglas Nelles_, D. L. S., connected the work south of the Porcupine. At the close or the season he inspected and numbered all of the monuments from the Porcupine to the Yukon and tied in those to the triangulation of which the positions were not sufficiently determined. Geology.-Mr. A.G. Madden, of the United States Geolo~cal Survey, with his two assistants, J. M. Jessup, of the Smithsoman Institution, and J. S. Harrington, took advantage of the facilities offered by the boundary survey to conduct a geological reconnoissance north from the point where they had closed their work in 1911. South of 톞he Porcupine River Dr. D. D. Cairnes, of the Geological Survey of

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURYEY.

85

Canada, conducted a geological reconnoissance along the boundary covering the ground between the Yukon and the Porcupine not gone over by him in 1911. Both geological parties were furnished with photographs of the previous season's work of the boundary party and also with tracings of the topography as it was plotted in the field.  Character of country.-North from" X" of the boundary through the coast range of the British Mountains the hills are steep and rugged, absolutely devoid of all vegetation. The streams are swift and scattered over bars of gravel and sand. In a few spots sufficient willows may be found for cam:r, purposes, but for all side camps either wood has to be packed or 011 burned. There is sufficient natural grass to furnish subsistence for the horses if a moderate amount of oats is provided. In the main the traveling is excellent, as there are few swamps and these only of small extent. Station " Y " of the boundary is on a high rocky ridge at about an elevation of 5,200 feet. From "Y" the country gradually rolls off to the lower foothills, which extend to within 12 miles of the ocean. From the8e foothills to the Arctic Ocean a distance of about 12 miles, is the flat coastal plain dotted with a few lakes and permanent ice fields. A peculiarity of this plain is that it has a foundation of ice over which the rivers have carried deposits of gravel and sand. In places there has been a subsidence, caused by the melting of the ice and huge ice mushrooms appear, the tops of which carry about 3 feet of moss and dirt, Fine examples of the alluvial fan are shown where the rivers break through the foothills onto the tundra. The shore of the ocean consists of mud banks which drop, on an average, about 15 feet' to a narrow pebble beach not more than 50 feet wide. The action of the ice seems to be gradually driving the beach line farther south. A peculiarity of the coast are the long sandy spits extending into the ocean, such as Demarcation Point and Icy Reef. At the highest point these spits can not be more than 10 feet above mean sea level. Plenty of wood for camp purposes is to be found scattered along the beach. Inland waters.-North of the Old Crow River there are no navigable waters. The first river to be crossed on the journey north is the Firth, which runs through the valley in numerous channels, except where it narrows into what is known as the Canyon, well to the east of the line. The Canyon is always blocked with ice, and large portions of the valley have a perpetual covering of ice of about 8 feet in thickness. This river can not be crossed after heavy rains, as the rise is very sudden. The next rivers to be encountered are the Backhouse and the Malcolm Rivers, which are the same in character but much smaller. The Clarence River flows into Clarence Bay. H orses:-Seventy-seven horses were shipped to Coffee Creek at the close of the field season of 1911 and from there driven to the head of White River for wintering. Of these only 21 survived. Thirty-four additional horses were purchased and three had been left at Ram.Part House during the winter. At the end of the season of 1912 th1rtyfour horses were sent to Champagne Landing_to be kept during the winter and the rest were either sold or shot. Never during the years when the boundary survey was in progress have the horses come out in such good condition.

86

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

Dogs.-Of the 10 dogs which were left at Rampart House 1 was shot and 1 given away, on account of a troublesome disposition. The others were sold. . Line projection.-The line was produced from" Y" of the boundary to the Arctic Ocean, a distance of 25.6 miles, by the method employed in previous years. The part;r was the same as found under the heading " Canadian parties," with the party as reorganized. Thomas Riggs, jr., represented the United States commissioner. J. D. Craig represented the British commissioner. The final point was set on the shore of the Arctic Ocean on July 18. The reconnoissance was begun by Mr. Reaburn and continued by Mr. Riggs in conjunction with the line projection. Signals were also erected by Mr. Craig and Mr. Guerin. Reconnoissance was carried eastward for two quadrilaterals, but all stations were not occupied, as one observer was not avai-lable, and it was on this account that it became impossible to make connection with Herschel Island. In all, 18 signals were erected on main-scheme stations. Triangulation.-Triangulation was conducted in accordance with the rules for tertiary triangulation of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, with additional instructions to fit local conditions. The instruments used were the 6f-inch and 7-inch Berger repeating theodolites on the main-scheme stations and at main-line points. The monument sites were tied into the main scheme with 4-inch and 6-!-inch theodolites. The first stations occupied were Tub and Reaburn, using the line Siwash-Turner as the gomg forward line. Mr. Wm. B. Gilmore was in charge of triangulation on the main scheme, additional triangulation being done by Thomas Riggs, jr., J. D. Craig, Frederick Lambart and Douglas Nelles. Magnetic observations.-In addition to the work of triangulation Mr.. Gilmore occu:pied six stations with the Coast and Geodetic Survey compass declmometer No. 744 for magnetic declination. Tlie results have been transmitted to the commissioner. In all, six new stations were occupied. Mr. Guerin and Mr. Ryus obtained a very close declination at Demarcation station and various points adjacent by scaling with n protractor from their plane-table sheets the true azimuth from the magnetic bearing. Toporrraplty.-Owing to the small amount of topography to be done only one topographic party 톣as put in the field. This consisted of the chiefs of last year's two parties with one assistant topographer. The party picked up the work where it had been abandoned in 1911 and carried it to completion on the shores of the Arctic, then extending east and west so as to take in natural objects to which the boundary could be referred. After the coast was reached Mr. Guerin and Mr. Ryus separated, Mr. Guerin working west while Mr.,Ryus with only three men worked to the east. On the co.11st 20-foot contours were put in so as to show such small eminences as would otherwiSe be lost in the 100-foot contours. The method employed was the same as in previous seasons. Horizontal and vertical control furnished by field computations of triangulation and supplemented by plane-table triangulation from in-

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

87

tersections with elevations computed from vertical angles. Rivers and streams and coast lines were traversed by stadia. The instruments used were the John~on h~d-_plane table with 18 by 24 board and Bausch & Lomb special ahdades. The field scale is 1/45,000; contour interval 100 feet, except as stated above; datum mean sea level carried from the coast and adjust~d through two sheets, whence a correction is added to the elevations along the remainder of the boundary line. In June preparations were made for a joint inspection of the boundary by the American and the Canadian surveyor. The party left Seattle on June 9, but owing to various delays work was not begun until June 27. 
[ASA 0. BALDWIN.]

Sl::rMYABY OF BESULTs.-Reconnoissance : Length of scheme 90 statute miles, 38 points selected for main scheme, nnd 7 for secondary scheme. Base lines: 2 (one 2,552.2697 meters in length). Trlangnla ti on: Length of scheme 90 miles, 38 signals erected in main scheme and 7 in secondary scheme, 44 stations oc-. cupied for horizontal measures, 38 stations occupied for vertical measures. These statistics include work done in the spring of 1912.

After the initial points on the one hundred and forty-first meridian on the south bank of the Yukon River had been determined in 1907, the projection and survey of this dividing line between Alaska and Canada were carried southward until a high range of mountains beyond the White River was reached. Mount Natazhat of this range, 13,435 feet in height, was found to stand nearly on the line, and presented so formidable a barrier that it was impracticable to pass over it. The following year, therefore, operations were begun north of the Yukon River and continued toward the Arctic Ocean. The section south of Mount N atazhat was left unsurveyed and the demarcatfon of the boundary line in this direction temporarily suspended. This unsurveyed line south of Mount N atazhat was known to extend about 80 miles and to end near Mount St. Elias but very little was known of the intervening region. In 1909 Mr. Riggs had carried the triangulation up the White River and about 30 miles west of the line. It was now proposed to extend this work and to establish and mark the boundary between Mount N atazhat and Mount St. Elias. The plan of work adopted involved carrying the triangulation to the west of Mount N atazhat until a passable route should be found leading to the boundary south of the mountain range; to establish some one point on the boundary there; or, if that should be impracticable in one season, to determine whether or not the region is accessible and whether it would be possible to trace the meridian on the surfa.ce at some future time. The chief of party left Washington on February 23 for Seattle, where a :party was organized. Leaving Seattle on March 19 the party arrived at Cordova, Alaska, on March 23 and at McCarthy station, the nearest point on the railroad to the locality of field worlr, on the 25th. McCarthy station is over 60 miles from the boundary on the White River and to connect with the previous survey work there the Skolai Pass had to be crossed. It is a 5,000-foot divide filled .with a glacier

88

REPORT OF SUPE~INTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

and is the one pass from the Nizina drainage to the White River. Horses and sleds were used for transporting supplies, and by April 5 the entire outfit had been moved across the Nizina River and a main cache had been established at the mouth of. Chititu Creek. From the information now available it was concluded that the one practicable route for carrying forward the work was the drainage route. The plan adopted was, after joining the work on the White River, to extend it over Skolai Pass and follow the Skolai Creek and the Nizina River as far as Chititu Creek and then to cross the low foothills to the Chitina River where a turn could be made toward the one hundred and forty-first meridian.  From the amount of snow on the ground it was evident that some time would be required to break a trail to the pass, and it was decided to utilize this time by building the triangulation stations up the Nizina as the party proceeded. Initial r:ositions were taken from the United States geological map of the Nizina district, plotted on thellane-table sheet and used for orientation. On pril 7 the ascent was made of East Sourdough Peak ( 6,670 feet) and later a cairn signal was built. During the following week signals Young Creek, May Creek, Geological, and Boulder were built. In addition a base site was selected on the Nizina River and its ends marked with concrete piers. Two men were sent up the Nizina to build signals while the chief of party was measuring the azimuth of the base and observing for latitude, time, and azimuth. A party sent to break a trail across Skolai Pass returned on May 1 having- accomplished their object with much difficulty. The foot of the N izina glacier had not been reached, but a cache had been built at timber line 15 miles from the glacier. One of the horses had been killed by falling over a bluff. In this locality it was necessary to build an additional signal before turning at right angles toward Skolai Creek. This signal was placed on what is called Goat Island, which rises 8,500 feet above a sea of glaciers.  Up to this time 12 si~als had been built, which formed a scheme of triangulation spannmg the Nizina River from Chititu Creek to Skolai Creek. It was now decided to recover the old stations on the White River as soon as possible. Leaving the valley of the Nizina the party followed the trail which had been broken to Skolai Creek. Skolai Pass was crossed on May 23 and on the 24th the White River was reached. At White River stations Bend, End, Solo, and Skolai were recovered and a reconnoissance was begun to connect with the stations on the Nizina River. On June 6 and 7 the consequences of the eruption of Mount Katmai volcano were noticed by the frequent falling of large masses of ice from the mountain peaks accompanied by a rumbling sound resembling thunder. Observations were finished and the pass recrossed on June 12. On Skolai Creek additional signals were built so as to form a continuous scheme of triangulation from White River to Chititu Creek. The occupation of these stations was finished by July 10, by which date 50 miles of reconnoissance and 30 miles of triangulation had

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY;

89

been completed. To reach the boundary at the head of the Chitina River would have required about 100 miles of triangulation, an amount too great to be accomplished in the time remaining available for work. It was imperative, however; that the Chitina should be reached, in order to control the work of the topographic party and to gain the required information concerning the country along the one hundred and forty-first meridian. Camp was therefore moved to Chititu Creek, the reconnoissance taken up where it had been begun in the spring, and the work of signal building in the direction of the Chitma advanced as rapidly as possible. On the 24th the valley of this river was reached and a turn made in the scheme toward the one hundred and forty-first meridian. The reconnoissance was continued 20 miles farther to include the initial signals of the topographical party and command the mountains up the valley in the vicinity of the boundary. After the completion of the reconnoissance the remainder of the season was devoted to observing angles. Sixty miles of triangulation remained to be done after August 1. An observer was detailed from the topographic party to aid in the triangulation, and by September 1 all but 10 miles of the work was finished. . The combined parties then met at the Nizina River base line and measured it on September 10. .  After another week devoted to observing angles the party returned to McCarthy station, and thence via Cordova to Seattle, where the hands were discharged on October 10. In May, 1913, a base line was measured and arrangements were made to extend the triangulation up the Logan Glacier. By June 1 the reconnoissance was completed to a point within 8 miles of the boundary, when progress was delayed by a heavy snowfall.
[D. W.
EATON.]

SUMMARY OF RESULTB.-Topography: 500 square miles of area covered by plane table, 200 square miles covered by phototopographic method.

The topographic survey of the international boundary line and region adjacent in the vicinity of the Chitina River and along the one hundred and forty-first meridian between Mount St. Elias and Mount N atazhat, Alaska, was in progress at the beginning of the fiscal year. This work was based upon triangulation done by a separate party working in cooperation with the topographic party. The region to be surveyed being comparatively unknown much of the season's work was necessarily of an exploratory nature. Transportation of the party and supplies was by rail from Cordova to Chitina and thence by horses and sleds to within about 12 miles of the Chitina Glacier. Signals were erected and a small scheme of triangulation was carried up from the' surveyed topography at Canyon Creek to the Chitina Glacier. To begin the plane-table work a traverse line was run up the valley of the Chitina for a distance of 12 miles to a connection with the triangulation scheme. From this point a planetable triangulation was continued to the boundary and up the Anderson Glacier.

90

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, OOAST A.ND GEODETIC SURVEY.

The topography was carried up the Chitina Valley to and along the one hundred and forty-first meridian northward toward Mount N atazhat as far up the Anderson Glacier as practicable. The phototo:pography covers the same urea as the plane-table work, the valley bemg covered by both methods. In the latter part of the season the topographic party cooperated with the triangulation party in measuring a base line and completing the triangulation. The Chitina River (" Chitni "=copper and "na "=river) valley was at one time occupied by a ~eat valley glacier, the traces of which are shown by lateral morames far up on the mountain sides. The glaciers at the head of the Chitina Valley are the remnants of this once great glacierl..Tand they hav~ their sources in the elevated region between Mount .N atazhat on the north side and Mount Logan and Mount St. Elias on the south. Across this elevated region runs the boundary line along the one hundred and forty-first meridian to a point near and to the northwestward of Mount St. Elias. The region to the westward of Mount Logan appears to be the source of numerous glaciers extending to the northward and joining the Logan Glacier.
PORTLAND CANAL.
[FREMONT MORSE.]

On July 19, in accordance with instructions, Mr. Fremont Morse joined Mr. Clinton Dennis on Portland Canal, as representative of the American commissioner in placing or identifying reference marks or monuments for the turning points of the boundary line.  The Canadian party had been in the field since the latter part of May, and had erected monuments opposite the turning points of the line down the canal from No. 20 to No. 15. The main triangulation was extended during the season through a chain of nine quadrilaterals from the base Twel-Thur to the line Thirty-Thirty-one, a distance of about 64 miles. The last two stations were not occupied. Photographs were taken at all the main stations and at some subsidiary topographic stations from which the topography of region adjacent to the canal can be plotted. Monuments were erected opposite the following turning points of the boundary line, viz: Nos. 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9,8, 7, 6, and 5. There are two monuments for each turning point except that on the Alaska side of the canal near Camp Point, one monument, called U. S. 16 and 17, was used to mark both the 16 and 17 turning points. A change was found necessary in the form of the reference monuments and the method of setting them, in order to prevent damage from winter high tides and storms. The height of the monuments was decreased to 18 inches and the area of the base considerably increased. Three iron rods, instead of one, were embedded in each of the monuments with a view to increasing their stability. Work was closed for the season on October 12. Work in the field was resumed on May 23, and was in progress at the close of the fiscal year.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND .GEODETIC SURVEY.

91

DETAILS OF OFFICE OPERATIONS.

The Assistant in Charge of the Coast and Geodetic Survey office has direct supervision of the work of the office. The Miscellaneous Section and the Tidal Research Section are under his immediate direction.
COMPUTING DIVISION.

The greater part of the time of this division was given to the reduction of field operations and the preparation of results for publication and the preparation of data for field parties of the Survey and for departments of the Government, civil engineers, and others interested in the work. The computation and reduction of the triangulation alon~ the coasts and m the interior of the United States and along the international boundaries has made satisfactory progress. Much work was done on the computation and adjustment of the precise level net in the United States and the preparation of results for the printer. The use of the photostat for copying, formerly done on the typewriter, has increased the output of the division and effected a great saving in .time and labor. The division has thus been enabled to furnish information more promptly and to change the system of book registers for a .vertical filing system. . Five publications relating to geodetic work were received from the printer during th'e year and the text of another was submitted for publication. Proof of a number of publications was read in the division and progress made in the preparation of others which were nearly completed by the close of the fiscal year. The computations made at the office by many of the field officers of the Survey and of officers engaged on the international boundary work were supervised in the Computing Division. Several computers employed on the boundary work were attached to the division. A number of field officers have aided in the work of the division when not employed in the reduction of their own field observations.
DIVISION OF TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM,

Besides supervising the work of the computers engaged in the reduction of the magnetic results and the preparation of these results for publication, the chief of this division represented the Department of Commerce at the first meeting of the National Association of Port Authorities, which met at New York City on December 9, 1912. The 톝tatistics of correspondence during the year show a steady demand for information concerning terrestrial magnetism and particularly the magnetic declination. The revision of field observations on land and sea was kept up to , date, including the compass declinometer work on the one hundred and forty-first meridian boundary in Alaska: The results of field magnetic observations on land and at sea for the period from July 1, 1911, to December 31, 1912l~ere prepared and submitted for publication as Special Publication .No. 15. Four publications relating to the work of the magnetic observatories were prepared and submitted for publication during the year,

92

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODEl'IC SURVEY.

the proof of four publications was read, and progress was made in th(l preparation of one other publication. . Magnetic and seismological data were furnished for the use of the International Commission of Terrestrial Magnetism, the International Seismological Association, the Seismological Committee of the British Association, the Kew Observatory1 and the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Investigations were made of the scale values and constants of magnetic instruments. Several papers containing results of magnetic observations were prepared for publication in the Journal of Terrestrial Magnetism.
TIDAL DIVISION.

During the year the Tide Tables for 1914 were completed and pub-' lished, harmonic analyses were completed for 4 stations, each one year in length, and some of the summations were made for analysis of one other station for one year. N onharmonic reductions were made for 145 stations, with a combined length of 60 years, 2 months, and 11 days; mean sea level was computed for 38 stations, with a combined length of 68 years, 9 months, and 20 days; high and low waters and hourly heights of the sea were tabulated for 251 stations, with a combined lentrt;h of 61 years; 264 volumes of soundings were reduced, involving 즚e computation of the plane of reference for 233 stations and the entering of many thousand tide reducers. There were received, examined, registered, and indexed tidal records for 48 stations in the eastern division, 4 stations in ihe middle division, 9 stations in the 톣estern division, 25 stations in the Alaska division, and 18 stations from the Philippine Islands and Hawaii. Additional observations of tides have been received from the Corps of Engineers, United States Army, the Ordnance Department. United Stat;es Army, the Hawaiian gov~rnment survey, the Hydrogra.phic Office of the Navy Department, the Government of Cuba, and from Tientsin, China. Tidal data were exchanged with the Imperial Hydrographic Office at Wilhelmshaven, Germany, and copies of tidal predictions for Wellington and Auckland were furmshed to the secretary of the Marine Department at Wellington, New Zealand.
CHART CONSTRUCTION DIVISION.

On account of the character of the work of this division ample welldiff'used daylight is an essential in order to properly deal with the fine details of the charts. The present quarters are inadequate for the growing demands on this department of the work 1 not only in the respect mentioned but also as regards heat, ventilation, and proper supervision. An increase in the personnel and equipment will also be necessary to meet the necessity for an increased output of charts. The demand during the year 1913 was more than 9 per cent greater than for the previous fiscal year. In the drawing section the present practice of making chart drawings on vellum has been found subject to certain disadvantages, to

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY..

93

avoid which it is :proposed to return to paper as the best medium for the drawing and it is expected that by using celluloid transfers the compilation can be copied almost as rapidly as in the case of vellum. Besides the new charts constructed good progress was made in replacing the old diagon11ol and double unit charts with those of the new scheme. The work of the engraving section with a slight exception is more nearly up to date than ever before. . The facilities of the printing section have been taxed by the increased demand for charts as well as by a delay caused by the necessity of installi"ng a new electric-power cable. The surface printing from aluminum plates of an increased number of charts, including some of the old engraved charts for which there is a large demand, is expected to relieve the situation to some extent. The surface printing of charts from aluminum plates, among other desira)?le features, enables corrections to be made with great facility in the aids to navigation shown on the charts. Additional presses are needed in the lithographic section. The electrotype section, owing to. the extensive corrections to plates, has become overcrowded with work, and the purchase of two additional vats is recommended. The photograph section, besides the usual work, has turned out a large amount of copying with the photostat for the different divisions of the office, taking up a lar&e part of the time of one of the photographers. Addit10nal hell? is needed in this section. The statistics of work durmg the year are as follows:
CHART PREPARATION.

Schemes approved for new charts-----------------------------------Approved schemes on hand, charts not started-----------------------Drawings for new charts finished---------------------------------Drawings for new charts in hand---------------------------------New drawings for new editions finished---------------------------New drawings for new editions In hand ____________ .:,_______________ Extensive corrections finished-------------------------------------Extensive corrections In hand-------------------------------------Chart drawings from Manila for new charts finished________________ Chart drawings from Manna for new editions finished--------------Various miscellaneous drawings and tracings.
ENGRAVING.

15 5 15 13 5 2 121 5 12 1

New plates for new charts finlshed----------------------------------New plates for new charts in hand---------------------------------New engraved plates for former lithograph charts finished ___________ _ New etched plates for former lithograph charts finished-----------~- New bassos for new editions finished-------------------------------New baBSos bassos for for reissues new editions in ___________________ hand-------------------------------New finished :_ ________________ _ New bassos for reissues in hand------------------------------------New editions using current plate finished---------------------------New editions using current plate in hand----------------------------Extensive corrections applied to plates-----------------------------Extensive corrections in hand--------------------------------------Mlscellaneous plates engraved or corrected-------------------------Minor corrections applied to plates---------------------------------Oharts in engraving section, engraving not started-------------------

9 10
4

3 15
14

21

7 20

2 258 13 8 1,315
2

-94

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.
PRINTING.

New subjects printed from aluminum plates------------------------Reprints printed from aluminum plates-----------------------------Reprints printed from stones----------------=-----------------------Total number of dilrerent lithograph cbnns printed____________ J)l1ferent engraved charts printed----------------------------------Miscellaneous lithographic publications-----------------------------Miscellaneous engraved publications---------------------------------

116. 77 8 196
803

19 2

Copies of lithograph charts printed and delivered____________________ 61, 939 Copies of engraved charts printed and delivered_____________________ 79, 595 Miscellaneous lithographic prints----------------------------------- 61, 875 Miscellaneous engraved prints-----------------~-------------------37 Total-------------------------------------------------------- 203,446 Lithographic" impressions (all work)-------------------------------- 244, 578 Engraved impressions (all work) ----------------------------------- 88, 187 Total-------------------------------------------------------- 332,765
ELECTROTYPING.

 Altos completed---------------------------------------------------BaBBOs completed-----------------~-------------------------------Total------------------------------------------------~------PHOTOGRAPHING.

156 156 112

Glass negatives made----------------------------------------------992 Paper negatives Dlnde______________________________________________ 32 Velox prints made-------------------------------------------------~ 1, 215 Vandyke prints made----------------------------------------------135 840 Bromide prints made----------------------------------------------Blue prints made-"-------------------------------------------------- 2, 123 Photostat prints made---------------------------------------------- Lantern slides made ______________ :_________________________________ 11,240 1 Matrices made----------------------------------------------------74 Prints mounted _______ .:-------------------------------------------23 Negatives developed-----------------------------------------------6 Photolithographic negatives, number of charts-----------------------76
CHART DIVISION.

The regular work of this division has been continued during the year, and by details of employees from other divisions from time to time it has been possible to keep up with the increasiiig demand for charts. There are now 149 sales agencies for Charts, Coast Pilots, and Tide Tables, not including the subagencies of the office at Manila. The total issue of charts for the year was 143,694, an increase of 12,357 over the previous year. The issue of Coast. Pilots was 5,555 copies, and of Tide Tables, Atlantic coast, 1,729; Pacific coast, 10,380; complete, 936. _ In addition to the Charts, Coast Pilots, and Tide Tables, the following publications were received during the year for sale: . Catalogl}e of Charts, Coast Pilots, and Tide Tables 1912; Notes on Inland Waterways; Supplements to Coast Pilots, as follows: Parts I, II, III, IV, V, VIII, California., Oregon, and Washington; and Alaska, Part I.

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

95

There were issued of the Chart Catalogues 1,695 copies, of the .Maryland Oyster Charts 6,954 copies, and of the United States and Canada Boundary maps, 1906, one set. There were delivered to the division 34 new chart.s and 75 new editions of charts, and 26 charts and 5 plans were canceled. Charts were issued as follows:
Sales agents...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sales by Office and Chart Division.......................... Congressional account. . . . . . . . . . . . Hydrographic Office..... . . . . . . . . Bureau of Lighthouses...... . . . . . Coast and Geodetic Survey Office. 55, 257
2, 760 5, 512

Suboffice, Manila, P. I. . . . . . . . . Executive departments..... . . . . Foreign governments........... . Miscellaneous. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6, 282
6, 212

1, 290 1, 887

52, 955 4, 823 6, 716

Total.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143, 694

The following Coast Pilots were distributed and sold during the year:
Pa.rt I-IL ......................... Pa.rt III.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Pa.rt IV .......................... Part V ............................ Part VI. .......................... Part VII. . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Part VIII. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
343 459 571 451 466 105 273 Inside Route Pilot............ . . . . 1, 753 Porto Rico...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47 California, Oregon, and Washington........................... 510 Alaska.......................... 577 Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 555

The follow\ng Tide Tables were distributed end sold during th(\ year:
Pacific coast: Atlantic coast: 1867........... 1 1867 ... - .... . 1886-1895 .... . .1885-1894...... 10 1895........... 2 1901-1903 .... . 1907 ......... . 1901. ... . . . . . . . 2 1902........... 2 1909 ......... . 1903........... 2 1910 ......... . 1904-1906. ..... 3 1911 ......... 1907. .. . . . . . . . . 2 1912 ......... . 1908. ... . . . . . . . 1 1913 ......... . 1909. .. . . . . . . . . 2 1910........... 4 1911... ..... .. . 4 1912........... 217 1913 ........... 1,477 Total.. . . . . . . . 1, 729 Complete: 1896 ......... 1 1897 .......... 1 1898 .......... . 2 2 1899. 렁렁렁렁렁 1 1900. 렁렁렁 .... . 1902 .......... . 1 1 1903. 렁렁렁렁렁 2 1908. 렁렁렁렁렁 1 9,887 1909. 렁렁렁렁렁 1910 .......... . 2 s 1911 . 렁렁렁 .. . 1912 .......... . 78 1913 .......... . 840 1914 .......... . 1
1 10 3 1 1 1 1 475

Total. . . . . . . 10, 380

Total.........

936

Chart.s were issued at the suboffice, Manila, P. I., as follows:
Sales agents....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1, 081 Sales at suboffice ................. 1, 855 Army............................ 469 Hydrographic Office (Navy)...... 482 COast and Geodetic Survey. . . . . . . 250 Suboffice, Manila, and vessels of the Survey.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283 Executive departments, PhilipJ>ine Islands................... Miscellaneous. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 802 107

Total ...................... 5, 329

INSTRUMENT DIVISION.

The report of the Chief of the Instrument Division contains the. usual detailed statistics of the work of the employees during the year. The work of repairing instruments used in the Survey, and of design-

96

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY.

ing and constructing special new instruments and apparatus, including, incidentally, experimental researches, adaptations and improvements to meet new requirements, was satjsfactorily performed. The selection and purchase of new instruments and material when required was also attended to by this division. The making and repairing of furniture and repairs to office buildings; packing and unpacking instruments and general _property issued: from and received at the Coast and Geodetic Survey Office; and special technical woodworking, have been given careful attention. The duty of accounting for all instruments and general property, facluding furniture, and of preparing the correspondence incidental thereto, was continued as heretofore. The work of finishing the new tide-predicting machine No. 2 was completed. Various scientific instruments were tested for foreign governments. The tide gauges and indicators in New York City and at Fort Hamilton, N. Y., were inspected and repaired during the year.
LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES.

The report of the Chief of Division of Library and Archives gives the usual details concerning the collection of books, periodicals, maps. and charts, and the receipt of original topographic and hydrographic sheets, photographs, and field records of every kind. Ten thousand books and pamphlets of no further use to the Survey were taken from the shelves and listed for transfer to the Library of Congress or bureaus of this Department. Three thousand books and pamphlets selected from some 7,000 items no longer needed were transferred to the Library of Congress. Seven thousand books and pamphlets of no further use to the Survey and not desired by other bureaus are recommended for condemnation and sale. A compilation of Coast and Geodetic Survey work in the Philippine Islands was prepared. The number of field records received during the lear was 25 per cent greater than tliat for any previous year. No less than 272 ori,Pnal hydrographic and topographic sheets were received and registered. The revision of the map catalogue and the elimination of useless maps was continued.
ACCESSIONS.

Classlflcatlon.

Purchased.

Donated. Exchanged. Total.
568 1,528 6153 1,528

Books and pamphlets....... . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. 85 .......... .. Maps, charts, Jllld blue prints ..................................................... .

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, COAST.AND GEODETIC SURYEY.
STATISTICS OF AccESSIONS-ABCHIVES ACCESSIONS.

97

Subjects. Astronomy:  Observations, original.....................................

Volumes. Cahlers.  Sheets.

Mni::;~~-

------------------!------------0111ce ........................................................... . Geodesy: Observations, original..................................... 150

Comjl!f:t~'.:':-:'..................................................... .
1

9

13 ......... .

14

11 .......... ....... : ..

2 ................... .

Office............................................................ Hypsometey: 80 Observations, original..................................... Office............................................................ 

Comjl!f:t~~........... .................................

21 ................... .
83 .......... 31 ................... .

!......... .

41 ......... ., ......... .

Comjl!J~:~~-........................................... ... .......

no!ett:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::: ::::::::i: ,..... ~~- :::::::::: ~r~~::-:-:-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 렁렁렁-r :::::::::: :::::::::: :::::::~~ Levels.....................................................
Tides: Original observations ................................... ~..
138 4 ................... .

Sheets:

~3~:.~~~~~~~:~~~~~'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 렁'렁549 ...... ~~- :::::::::: ::::::::::

4 .................. ..

7 .................. ..

Photographic materlal (negatives and prints)................................................ Total. . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 965 400

ft~~~~~~y.-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

2 ............................. . 1

x

: :::::::::: ......... ~ 220
j
272

---~---;------

I

401

TIDAL RESEARCH SECTION.

Current observations taken during the summer season on board certain light vessels in the fifth and sixth lighthouse districts of the direction and velocity of the wind were tabulated and reduced. Short series of current observations made in connection with the work of field parties were plotted and reduced. Current predictions for Seymour Narrows, British Columbia, and Sergius Narrows, Alaskal were furnished for use in the Tide Tables for 1914, and rules were deduced by which it can be ascertained when the currents in these passages will be .least violent. Some work was done upon the compilation of tidal and related matter from published French and German sources. Tides observed at Gauss station, Antarctic continent, by Prof. Dr. Erich von Drygalski in 1902 have been plotted and are being reduced, and tidal data obtained at other stations in the southern hemisphere are being compiled and examined. Temperature observations of air and water between Cape Flattery nnd 'the Hawaiian Islands made by the Coast and Geodetic Survey stl!'amer Patterson in 1912 and 1913 were tabulated and plotted. Brief consideration was given to questions connected with cotidal lines and also to matters relating to sea-level determination. Information has been furnished in re:ely to requests from outside parties on a wide range of scientific subJects often requiring considerable study and investigation. 
14877-is-1

98

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT, OOAST AND GEODETIC SUB.VEY.
텺ISCELLANEOUS SECTION,

This section attends to the purchase and distribution of supplies and keeping of the accounts relating thereto; makes requisitions for 'printing and binding; issues stationery to field parties and office divisions; audits accounts payable from the appropriation for " Office expensoo; " conducts the correspondence relating thereto; and performs various other miscellaneous duties. A contract for rewiring the Coast and Geodetic Survey buildings under an appropriation made by Congress was awarded on May 21, and this necessary work was in progress at the close of the fiscal year. . On January 1, 1913, the chief of this section was appointed by the Secretary of Commerce to serve as a member of the General Supply Committee, and since then about half of his time has been spent on duties in connection with that work. Respectfully submitted. 0. H. TrrTMANN, Superintendent. To Hon. W:a.LIAM C. REI>l''IELD, Secretary/ of Commerce.

INDEX.
Page. Adame, F. L., magnetic observer___ 48 Aide to navigation located-------- 26, 27,
28, 20, 30, 31, 32, 37, 38, 30, 47, 48, 71
Paire.

Alabama magnetic obeerTatlon_____ 38 Alaska, boundary ---------------- 0, 82 base measurement-------------87. hydrographY------- 48,49,50,51,52,54 magnetic observations ----------48, reconnolseance ----------------tide observations --------------51, 53, 54, 55, 82 87

Clarvoe, G. W., carpenter__________ 68 Condor, steamer-----------------37 Craig, J. D---------------------- 83, 86 Curacao, steamer _________________ 20, 54 Current observations--- 7, 35, 53, 55, 67, 71 Dangers to navigation ___________ _ 10 Delaware, hydrographY-----------83 magnetlc observations __________ _ 32 Oyster Survey Commission __ _: __ _ 12,69 83 tide observatlons--------------82 trlangulatlon- ----------------00 Dennis, Cllnton-----------------Deneon, H. C., assistant_ _________ _ 68 Derrickson, R. B., asslstant-------- 45,52 Detalls of field operations, Atlantic coast ---------------------interior States ----------------outlying territory _____________ _ Pacific coast------------------Detalls of otllce operations ________ _ Details of operations, special duty_.., Director of Navigation, P. L------Distrlct of Columbia, leveling_____ _ reconnolssance _;. ______________ _ topographY-------------------trlangulatlon -----------------I~aton,

7,

topography _________________ 82,80,00 triangulation_ 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 82, 87, 90 Amory, Copley, jr--"-------------84 Appropriations and disbursements-18 .Arkansas, magnetic observations--36 Arizona, magnetic observations _____ 86, 38 Avers, H. G., computer____________ 70 Azimuth observations---------- 41, 42, 63 Bache, steamer------------------- 11, 33 Baldwin, Asa C., surveyor--------87. Barnard, El. C., Chief Topographer- 72, 74 Base measurement _____________ 41,63,87 Baylor, J. B., assistant___________ 70 Beal, A. F., magnetic observer_____ 45 Benton, J. R., magnetic observer---32 Bilby, J. S., slgnalman--.l.--------43  Bond, O. J., jr------------------47 Boutelle, J. B., assistant---------29 Bowle, William, assistant-------44 Bureau . ot Lighthouses ______ 7, 25, 87, 71 Cade, C. M., assistant ______ ;._____ 37 Calrnes, D. D-------------------84 Calltornla, tide observations_______ 7, 47 triangulation -----------------47 Cnnada and United States boundary_ 8 Chart agencies Inspected __________ 26, 27 Chart Construction Division_______ 02 Chart Division------------------94 Chart revision- 12, 13, 21, 22, 28, 24, 28, 46 Church, Earl F., aBBlstant--------71 Coast pilot work, North Carolina___ 86 86 Virginia ---------------------Colbert, L. 0., assistant___________ 59 Colorado, longitude--------------41 magnetic observations___________ 44 reconnolssance ----------------43 triangulation -----------------41 Computing Division--------------91 톍orps of engineers, U. S. A-------- 23, 26 20 Cosmos, launch------------------Cowie, G. D., assistant _________ 41, 43, 70

48,49,50, 51, 52,54,55

21 40 55

41s..
91 68 21 70 70 70

'l'O

D. W., surveyor-----------89 Economy and efficiency----------19 Endeavor, steamer------------ 12, 25, 29 Engle, F. G., assistant-----------7 Explorer, steamer---------------- 13, 48 Fairfield, W. B., assistant--------Faris, n. L., assistant-----------l"nthomer, steamer--------------I'erguson, O. W., assistant-------!<'lecher, E. G., Chief Mechanlclan__ Florida. hydrographY-------------tide observations--------------triangulation-----------------wire drag work---------------Forney, Stehman, assistant __ ;.._____ French, O. B., assistant----------78 tl5 H, 62



a5 68

22, M 톂 32, 38 !l3
70, 77 22

Gaarden, O. H., magnetic obse~ver_ 38; 45 Gauger, J. C., assistant----------61:> Gedney, steamer___________ 13,20, 45,G2 General statement of progress_____ 5 Ooodetlc work------------------14 Georgia hydrographY-------------- 33, :14 ma.gnetle observations___________ as tide observations_______________ 34 triangulation ------------ 26, 32, 37, 38

99

100

INDEX.
Page. 41 41 41 41 41 43 41 39 31 60 34 37

Page. Granger, F. D., asslstant---------77 Green, J. W., magnetic observer_ __ 68 Giimore, W. B------------------- 88,86 83 Guerln-------------------------Hand, E. R . assistant_ ___________ _ 66 Hardy, F. H., assistant_ _________ _ 46,49 84 Harrington, J. S----------------Hartnell, George, magnetic observer_ 34, 65 Hawaiian Islands, current observations----------------------67 hydrography ___________________ 07 magnetic observations-'--------08 tide observations-------------67 topographY-------------------6ff triangulation ------------------ 65, 66 Heck, N. H., assistant____________ 21 Hill, W. M., magnetic observer_____ 64 Hodgkins, W. C., assistant________ 33 Hodgson, C. V., assistant---------41 Hydrographer, steamer _________ 12, 20, 24 Hydrographlc Office, United States Navy__________________________ 24 HydrographY--------------------11 Alaska------------ 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54 Delaware---------------------33 Florida------------------------ 22,34 Georgia----------------------- 33,34 Hawaiian Islands--------------67 Massachusetts--------------- 22, 24, 28 Maryland---------------------- 29, 34 New York--------------------28 North Carolina ------------- 25, 30, 36 Philippine Islands----- 58, 59, 60, 62, 63 Rhode Island------------ 22, 29, 30, 31 South Carolina_________________ SS United States and Canada boundary------------------------77 Virginia----------------------85 Washington-------------------45 J:nslde route pilot----------------- 12, 32 Inspection duty--------------- 12, 13, 65 Inspector of hydrography and topographY------------------------11 Inspector of geodetic work--------14 Inspector of magnetic work __ -----16 Instrument Division-------------95 International boundaries --------~ 8, 9, 72 Iowa, magnetic observatlonH------44 Jessup, J. 1'1-------------------Julia Luckenbach, steamer-------Juniata, steamer ----------------Kansas, magnetic observations_____ Kentucky, magnetic observations___ Kershaw, steamer------.'..---------84 25 25 44 86 24

Longitude, Colorado -------------Montana ---------------------Nebraska _____________________ _

Lambert, Frederick--------------83 Latham, E. B., assistant__________ 47 Leveling, District of Columbia______ 70 Maine------------------------21 Nevada------------------------ 40,44 Library and Archives Division_____ 96

North Dakota-----------------South Dakota-----------------Texas------------------------\Yyomlng ---------------------Louisiana, triangulation __________ _ Louisiana, U. S. B---------------Luee, R. F., asslstant------------Lugano, steamer:.. ________________ _ Lukens. R. R . assistant----------McArthur, J; J __________________ 74, 77 McArthur, steamer _______________ 13, 110 McGrath, J, E., assistant__________ 80 Madden, A. G-------------------84 Magnetic observations, Alaska_____ 48, 51,53,54, 55,82 Arkansas---------------------:JO Colorado_____________________ ,14 Delaware______________________ 32 Georgia_______________________ 38 Hawaiian Islands-------~-----IJS Iowa-------------------------44 Kansas-----------------------44 Kentucky______________________ 36 Maryland--------------------::14 Missouri---------------------- 40, 44 텻ebraska------------~--------44 New Jersey____________________ !12 North Carolina_________________ 32 Oklahoma--------------------40 Pennsylvania-----------------32 Philippine Islands ______________ 02, IJ4 Porto Rico--------------------65 South Dakota__________________ 44 Tennessee --------------------30 Texas------------------------40 Virginia----------------------- 32, 36 Magnetic work, at sea ____________ 10, 17 on land ----------------------16 Maher, T. J,, assistant-----------112 Maine, chart revision------------21 hydrography ------------------21 leveling ----------------------21 tide observations_______________ 7 topography-------------------21 triangulation -----------------:n wire drag work________________ 23 lllarlnduque, steamer ______________ 14, ::;9 Maryland, hydrographY----------- 29, 34 magnetic observations----------84 oyster survey__________________ 69 Shell Fish Commission __________ 12, 1)1) tide observations_______________ 7 triangulation-----------------:l2 Massachusetts, chart revision______ 24 hydrographY---------------- 22,24,28 tide observations_______________ :!S triangulation --------------- 22, 23, 26 wire drag work________________ :!2 Matchless, schooner _______________ 12, 35 Midnight Sun, launeh_____________ Bil Miller, J. B., asslstanL------:--렁-- 55, 67

INDEX.
Paire.

101
 Paire.

98 Miscellaneous Sectlon------------Mlsslsslppl, magnetic observations __ 38 Mississippi River Commission _____ _ 72 Missouri, magnetic observations ___ _ 40,44 41 Montana, longltude--------------40 trlangulatlon -----------------Morse, Fremoni:_ ________________ _

Mueller, Eberhardt---------------

47,90 02

Nebraska, U. S. S---------------22 Nebraska, longitude_______________ 41 magnetic observations ---------44 Nelles, Douglas-----------------86 Neumann, Frank, magnetic observer05 Nevada, leveling----------------- 40, 44 Newburyport, Mass--------------23 New Jersey, magnetic observations32 tide observations--------------7 topographY-------------------33 triangulation--------------- 31, 32, 33 New York, chart revision---------28 hydrography ------------------28 tide observations--------------- 7, 28 trlnngulatlon --------------- 28, 31, 32 North Dakota, longitude---------41 reconnolseance ----------------43 triangulation___________________ 40 North Carolina, coast pilot work___ 30 hydrographY---------------- 25,30,36 magnetic observations___________ 32 topography _________________ 25,30,30 triangulation------------------- 30, 37
11 Otflce work---------------------Oklnhoma, magnetic observntlons __ _ 40 Orchid, lighthouse tender---------71 Oregon, triangulation ____________ _ 46,47

Reconnolssance, Alaska____________ 87 California--------------------'17 Colorado ---------------------43 District of Columbia____________ 70 North Dakota___________________ 43 l'hlllpplne Islands______________ 03 South Dakota-----------------43 Texas------------------------43 United States and Canada bounjiary __ :_ _______________ .:-:_~ 80 Washington ------------------40 Wyoming______________________ 43 Research, steamer _____________ 14, 21, 57 Resurveys ----------------------12 Rhode Island, chart revision_______ 22 hydrographf------------- 22,29,80,31 tide observations _________ 22, 29, 30, 31 triangulation ------------ 22, 26, 20, 30 wire drag work---------------22 Ritter, H. P., assistant_ _____ 28, 72, 82, 80 Romblon, steamer---------------- 14, 60 Rude, G. T., assistant_____________ ' 51 Ryus, F. S----------------------83 Sallle Purnell Beswick, schooner ____ 20, 25 San Francisco, suboftlce----------. 47 Beran, H. A., assistant ___ 29, 37, 41, 46, 71 Slnclllir, C. H., assistant__________ 72 Smith, E. E., assistant____________ 40 Smith, G. T., surgeon_____________ 82 Scuth Carolina, hydrographY------33 triangulation -----------------20 South Dakota, longitude----------41 magnetic observations----------44 reconnolssance ----------------43 triangulation --------------- 40, 41, 43 Sowers, Don c., magnetic observer ao Special dutY--------------------20 Special surveys___________________ 10 Stelrnagle, Wm. M., assistant-----57 Stiles, W. E. L-----------------24 Suboftlce, San Francisco----------47 'l'akU, steamer------------------- 18, 51 Tennessee, magnetic observations___ 30 Terrestrial Magnetism Division____ Ill Tens, Inspection of work In______ 14 longitude---------------------43 magnetic observation-----------40 reconnolsHance ----------------43 tide obsel'vatlons--------------7 triangulation ------------------ 89, 411 'l'ldal Division------------------92 Tidal Research Section-----------97 Tide gauge Inspection_____________ 32 Tide Indicators-------------------- 7, 08 Tide observations, Alaska_________ 7, 4'3, Ca.llfornla_____________________ Delaware---------------------.Florida----------------------Georgia----------------------Hawaiian Islands _______ .;._______
49,50, r.1,52,54,55 7, 47

Pagel!hart, Ill. H., assistant_ _______ 39, 46 Pathftnder, steamer ____________ 14, 20, 03 Patterson, steamer --------- 13, 54, 55, 07 Patton, R. M., assistant__,::________ 48 Pennsylvania, magnetic observations_ 32 title observations_______________ 7 topographY---------------J---33 triangulation--------------- 31, 32, 33 Peters, J, H., aBBlstant----------- 39, 44 l'hlllpplne Islands--------------14  azimuth observations____________ 03 base measurement-------------63 general statement of work_______ 5Li hydrography __________ 58, 50, 60, 62, 63 magnetic work----------------- 02, 04 tide observations ______ 58, rm, 00, 62, 03 topography ___________ 57,50,60,02,03 triangulation--------- 57, 50, 60, 02, 63 Porto Rico, magnetic observations__ 05 Pounder, J, R-------------------70 Publications --------------------18 Q.ullllnn, C. G., assistant__________
50
reconnolssance-------------~---

57,03

.'la
7
34

llannle, J. L--------------------74 Reaburn, W. B., sur.\leyor---------- 82, 83

117

:Maine-------------------------

7

102
Tide observations, Maryland------Massachusetts----------------New JerseY-----------'--------New York _____________________

INDBX. Pase. 7
23 7 7,28

Pase. Triangulation, United States and Canada, boundary --- 72, 74',"77, 78. 80 Virginia _______________________ 32, 85
"\Vashlngton-------------------46 Wyoming______________________ 40, 41 United States and Canada boundary_ 8, 72 azimuth observations ----------78 base measuremenL---------- 72, 77, 80 hydrography ------------------77 leveling __________________ 76, 77, 79, 80 reconnolssance _______________ 74, 78, 80 tide observations--------------77 topography _______________ 74,78,79,80 triangulation---------- 72, 74, 77, 7s, 80 Virginia, coast-pllot work---------36 hydrography ------------------35 magnetic observations----------- 32, 36 tide observations --------------85 topography -------------------35
trlangulatlon--------~---------- 32, 35

Pennsylvania-----------------7 Phlllpplne Islands----- 118, 119, 60, 62, 03 Rhode Island ------------ 22, 29, 30, lll Texas------------------------7 United States and Canada. boundarY------------------------77 Virginia_.:._____________________ :m Washington------------------7 Tlttmann, 0. H., Superintendent___ 72 TopographY---------------------12 .Alaska--------------------- 82, 89, 90 District ot Columbia____________ 70 Hawallan Islands--------------66 Alaine------------------------21 New Jersey____________________ 33 North Carollna ______________ 25, 30, 36 Phlllppine Islands_____ 57, 59, 60, 62, 68 Rhode Island---------------- 22, BO, 81 United States and Canada, boundarY------------------- 74,78,79,80 Virginia----------------------811 :VVashlngton-------------------45 Townsend, S. G., magnetic observer84 Triangulation, .Alaska_____________ 49,

Warner, T. L., assistant__________ 28 Washington, chart revision_________ 46 hydrography ------------------45 reconnolssance ----------------46 tide observations--------------7 50,51,52,54,82, 87,90 topography-------------------45 triangulation------------------46 Calltornia --------------------47  45 Colorado----------------------41 Weed, L. W., magnetic observer----55 Delaware---------------------32. Welker, P. A., assistant----------District ot Columbia-----------70 Westdahl, Ferdinand, assistant_ ____ 47, 54 Whitehead, z. w_________________ 37 Florid&------------------------ 32,38 24 Georgl&------------------ 26, 32, 37, 38 Whitney, Paul C., assistant ______._ Hawaiian Islands _______________ 65, 66 Winston, Isaac, assistant _____ _:____ 26 Louisiana-------~------------89 Wire drag work----------------- 12, 21 Connecticut-------------------21 Maine------------------------21 :Maryland---------------------32 Florlda-----------------------21 Massachusetts--------------- 22, 23, 28 Maine------------------------21 Montana---------------------40 Massachusetts-----------------21 New Jersey _________________ 31, 32, 83 New York --------------------21 New York------------------- 28,81,32 Rhode Island-----------------21 North Carolina _________________ 30, 87 Wireless-telegraph stations located28, 21), 31, 32, 46, 48 North Dakota-----------------40 Oregon---------.-------.:_______ 46 Woodyard, C. F., magnetic observer_ 65 Pennsylvania---------------- 31,32,33 Wyoming, longitude--------------41 Ph111pp1ne Islands----- 57, 69, 60, 62, 63 reconnolssance ----------------43 Rhode Island------------ 22, 26, 29, 30 triangulation------------------- 40, .l1 South Carollna ________________ _: 26 69 South Dakota---------'------ 40, 41, 43 Yates, C. C------~--------------Texas-------------------.:.----- 39,41 Yukon, steamer------------------ 49, 69

0

