27th CoNGBEss, 3d Session.

Rep. 'No. 43.

Ho.' OI' REP~.

COAST SQRVEY.

JANUARY

12, 1849.

Laicl upon the tablo.

Mr. Mallm·.11,from ilie Select Committee on the Coast 8urvty, reported in part the following proceedings, fo obedience lo tlie resol·«tion <if the /louse of Rep1·esentatfoes, 2d ses.,·ion 27lli Congress, Febru-ary 19,
1842,

viz:
CONGHESS
01~

THE UN!'l'ED S'J'A'l'ES.
01·

IN THR

HouBE

R11PRl:AEN'J'AT1v~s FN1T11D S·rATJ:B,

February 19, 18(2.
On motion or Mr. Mnllory, Ordered, Thul tho letter of th11 Socrrtory of the 'l'rooaury lni<l hr.fore tho Houae on the 3il o[ January, trnnamitting R r~port or 1".. n. Hoai.lor, KUp~rintendont of the COB·t'eurvey, showing tbe progress rn11de in lhat work, and tho report from tho l:lecretary of the 'J'roaaury ll1id before th& House on tho 31Ht of January, 1842, in roli1tion to the expenditures on account of tho 1urvay of 1he coa1t, lie roferro<l to a ·ul~ct committee. ' Mr. Mallory, Mr. Aycrigg, nnJ.

Mr. Wi"o,
Mr. UuKhing, wl'rO nppoinl.t'd snicl commillcr. A ttcst:

Mr. Holmu·,
M. :;, CT.AR KE, Clerk.

The committee, thus organizeu, iustrnclcd Lhe clrninuan to roquest Iha attendance of Mr. F. IL Hassler, an<l sncli of his ussistaut)l ns the superintendent might designatn. . ' On motion of Mr. Cushing, il w;i.s fmther Resolved, That the chaimmu be directed to nddrnss a loller, iu tho namo of the committee, to the President of the United Stales, roquesting him (if compatible, in l1is judgment, with the public service) to commlmicatc to the commi~tee tho following inli1rmut.iou, viz: 1. A list of all persons, other th,t11 omccrs of the navy and army, employed in tho coast smvey, from ils commohrcment to the present time, the order or orders under which they were employed, u.ud the amount of compensation, regular aud extrn, pnid t.o each. 2. A list of nil snch persons who holtl,or have held, other civil appointments, and theil' puy and emoluments nudor such other civil appointment, held duriug their employment in the coast survey, with the time and orders for their nppointmont and pay. . 3. A list of all ollicers of the unvy employed in the coast survey, their 1mvy pay during tlwir service in tile coast survey, and the additional pay of each on the coast survey. ·i. A li::;t of all olticors of the U.f,~Y employed iu tho coast survey, their

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387

army pay and emolqmenls, 'in dollars and cents, whilst so employe'd, and\ the additional pay of each for service in the coast survey.· . · 5. The time ~hen and the authority under which all appointments and allowances of pay, regular, extra, or for arrearages, iu the coast survey, were made. · . _. . . . . . . . . , · · And, on motion of Mr.· Wii;e, that th~ ·President be requested to cause the proper Department to answer, 1. Whether a part of the topogrnphical corps of the army can be detached for the purpose of the coast survey .. '.. ' 2. Whether the expense qfthe service of the coast survey will probably be reduced by detaching ·a part of t_he topographical corps. s. Whether the expen!'!e of the service of the coast survey will 'probably.. be. re4qce~, by ,employing other persons than otlicers of thetarmy l\nd ~~y 'o '.,P,erfortii. the, duties .which they are now. employed ·to perfotm. in ,the.coast ..survey;.. ., ' rn compllarice with this resolution, the above interrogatories were transmitted to the President of the United States, with the letter hereunto annexed: HouSE o~· REPUESENTATIVEs, Marcli 12, 1842. ·have the honor to cnclo~e to y9u the within resolutions of a select committee of the House of Rspre~entativeR on the subject' of the coast:surv.ey.· _ . ,'.fbe ,committee. decided to address these reE1olutions to you·, in considei:1 ,atiini ~t ,the fact.that the act of Dougress authorizing rhe survey placed it .£lµ~~r yon.r· direct ~ud immediate control.. · . I beg leave to add, that, if consistent with your views, it would be aaceptable to the committee to receive the information called for by either of the resolutio~, so soon as it shall be ready, without \vaiting for the other. I am, with.the highest respect,
''Sill·~' I

To the

PntsrnENT.

11'. MALLORY, Chairman.

:u(lon the·motion of Mr. Wise, it .was Re.wived, That the committee would proceed in the following order of inquiry: 1. The progress which has been made in the survey of tho coast. 2. The 1111mber, location, . and length, of tho several base lines measured fl)]· the triangulation. ' 3,. 'l'he 1111mber of stations occu[lied for triangulation. . 4. The observations made for, and the corrections applied to, the trian·gnlatious. · , 5. The ostro11ornicnl observations made for the determination of latitude· ,tind longitude. · · 6. The work clonr! hy each corpg ctnployed in the service~ · : 7.".A:deseriptiot: of the char~ pnblh:hed, if nny. · , ' B. 'fh'e·;amount of money expended, from tirno to time, since the commencehim1t of the work. . !J. The s1111 s appropriated for instnuncnts and bqoks. , ·:: '1J:ll1 ·:rbe 1'1an1M' Of aft person~ em ployed; d.lstiuguishing sue!}' a.s ~ere ofittie·ltrmy or rntvy·, 'together with their salaries or other compensation. 11. By whoni-appointcd. · ·

.B.ep ... .Jlo ·. ..,t.3·
· ,1

12. The d,irect appropriat.ipns for .tJle surv~y, .and .the. indirect exP,enditures' it,' by reasori ihe employment the,reon of public ".'es8el8 ~d officers. · · · lS. T~e probable l~ngth of. time required ~o complete the survey. , . 14. 1~1ie probable amount of money required to complete the same in the mode heretofore pursued. .. . · 16. Any other mode of survey which shall have for its object the acquisition of' the. greatest amount of information in the shortest ~ima, arid a.t .the least expense. ·

upon

of

THURSDAY,

March 17, 1842.

Present: Mr. Mo.Bory, Mr. Wise, Mr. Holmes, Mr. Aycrigg; Mr. Hassler appeared before the committee, agreeably to the request of the chairmau, made by order of the qommittee at former meeting.

Examination of F. Jl. Haaslet'.
l. Question by Mr. Mn.Bory. Have you deviated in nny way from tho original plan adopted in 1807 ? ' · Answer. Not·in the lenst. 2. · Questi'on· by so.me .. ls not 'the. work now cond11cted on· a more· ex-· tended plai1 than was originally intended, and does it not embrace objects not .originally contemplated by the Government? · · ·Answer. Not in tho least. . ·s. Question by same. Is it intended that the nresent coast survey .~ban furnish the. nece~sary data for the measurement of an arc of the meridian or a' parallel of latitude ? ' ' Answer. ~o. · . · 4. Question by snmo. Is there any necessary connexion betw~en sucb measurement and o. hydrogro.phic s1~rvey of the coas.t? ' Answer. No. , ~ . 5. Question by same. Could an arc of the meridian or parallel of latitiude be measured with more facility, expedition, and economy, if disconnected from nil other objects? Answer. Yes. . 6. Q'nestion by Mr. Aycrigg. You r~fel,' in your report (Doc. No, 28) to. a number of volumes in which tho work is contained; is the work in those volumes reduced? · . Answer. They are rednced. 7. Question by Mr.1\1allory. Where are these papers kept? .Answer. In mv offic~. s.· Question by' same. Ato thoy safe from fire? Auswer. ·Yes. 9. Question by some; Are. there any duplicates of these papers? Ariswer. Somo; of the groater part . . 10. ~uestion by same. Of wl1at ~apers nre there duplicates? Arls\Ver. Of nll/cixcept the Inst year's work. · I J. Q1t'cstion bv .Mr. Aycrigg. ls the Government in possession of any ~<?f (~e, dat~, or are tlviy in your pOssessio1i? . . , · · Answtlir. They are .111 the office-n house rented l>y the rreasnty partment-:iud under the caro of persons tn the employment o~ Gove~qµ.:ien{~

.pa.

Rep. No. 4'3.
·,. 12. Question by Mr. Mallory. Wboin do you me,an when you say
"persons in th<l employment of GClvernment ?" Answer. Myself and my assistants. 13, Question by same. Suppose the hou11e shonld be burnt, and papers destroyed, would not Government sustain great loss? ' Answer. Yes; but I conceive tho house completely safe, proper measures being taken to guard agaiust fire. The houses have been slated with this view. .14. Question by same. Have any other maps or charts been published, besides those of New Haven, Newark, and Bridgeport? Answer. No other. The hour of 12 having arrived, the committee adjourned to meet on this day w.eek. ·

March 24, 1842. , Examination of Mr. Hassler continued.
THURSDAY,

.~o\t subsequent meeting of the committee, the following questions were propounded to Mr. Hassler by various members of the committee, whose answers were as stated : I. Question. Have any maps been prepared and completed, so as to be ready for publication, other than the three published ; and if so, what? Answer. Yes: 1. A complete mnp of New York harbor is engraving. 2 A partial map of the entrance of New York has been prepared and delivered .to the Auditor for the ligl~t-house bureau. 3. One of the Thames river, in Connecticut, nearly ready for delivery, on order of the Secretar.)I'. 4. One for the Topographical bureau, for the site of fortifications ofthe en-~ trance of New York harbor, at Sandy Hook. 5. One of the north shore of Long Island sound, at New London, called for by tho 'Secretary of the Treasury. · The four' last named were prepared for the offices . .2. Question. Is either of tile eight maps above unmed so far correct aud complete in itself as to be of any -utility in and for the localities to which it applies? Answer. To be sure; each is complete, and of use in itself. 3. Question. Are these all on the same scale, or otherwi11e? Answer. They are r:ot all on the same scale, but some larger and some smaller, according to the purpose for which they were rcspecti \'ely intended. 4. Question~ ls there auy objection to the publication of definite and successive parts of the work as they may bo completed, ~s the niap of New. York now in the engraver's hands? · Answer. No, not in the least, so soon as the engraving is finished. . 5. Question. Is it necessary to complete the survey of Delaware bay before it can be practicable to publish a chart of Long Island sound? Answer. No. 6. Question. Is there any objection to the publication of the work connected with the maps as they are published? Answer. No; it is proper to [!Ublish the data on which the chart is constructed, in order to verify its correctness, and as a guide for the use of it. 7. Question. Has the work of meusuratiou und triangulation.connected with the maps of Bridgeport, New Haven, and Newark, been published with them? Answer. No.

Rep. N.o. 43·.
8. QuesUon. Has an,y part of the mensur.ation o{ the survey, and,of.tbe other scientific elements of the work, been published ? Answer. No. 9. Question. Has any systematically full part of the work between two base lines and two astronomical stations been completed as yet? Answer. No; the locality of the coast ,hitherto surveyed has not permitted it. 10. Question. Where is your furthest eastwardly astronomical station op. the coast? · Answer. ]\fount Carmel, near New Haven. . 11; Question. Where is your next astronomical station, proceeding southwestwardly ? . Answer. Tashua, nea.r Dridgeport. 12. Question. Where your next? Answer. West Hill, on Long Island. 13. Question. Where the next? Answer. Buttermilk Hill, near Tarrytown, New York. 14. Question. Any other P Answer. Yes; Weasel Mount, uear Paterson, New Jersey, and none ::;outhwest of that. 1-5. Question. How many base lines have been measured in the survey ? Answer. Two in 1817 and ·one in l 834. , 16. Question. llet ween what points is the base line measured in ISS4? Answer. On the beach at Fire Island light-house, Long Island; and the line measnred is eight and three-quarters mil~s in length, running·castwardly from the light-house. . · 17. ·Question. Where are the baRe lines of 1817? Answer. One in English Neighborhood, New Jersey, and the other at, Gravesend beach, Long Island. · 18. Question. Hus any nse been made of the two last-named base lines in the work of the survey? Answer. Ytis; for the heginning, in 1833. 19. Question. Whut objection is there to publishing the details ~nd · mathematical elements of the work, as completed, from Point Judith to New York harbor? Answer. The maiu triangulation has not been completed so fa1· as Point' .Judith, but only the.secondary. The main triangulation has been cofnplet.,.. ed only between Friar's Head, opposite New Haven, and Mount Carmel, ' in Connecticut, eastwardly, and Mount Holly, New Jersey, and Yards, (Newton township, near Philadelphia,) sonthwestwardly. The secondary triangulation has been completed from Point Judith to Cape Henlopen,· oi1 the coast, and from New York across to the head of the Chesapeake. 20. Question. What reason is there for concealing from tho pubtic the elements of the· work between Friar's Head and Mount Holly? Answer. None. 21. Question. Has it been published? Answer. No; it is not proper. 22. QuPstion. Why is it not proper? Answer. Because it will introduce imitations of the work, to the detriment of its validity. ' 23. Question. Imitations by whom? Answer. By common chart sellers, or others.

6

Rep.

No.· 43.

24. Qttestion. How is the survey injured by individuals publishing charts copied from those of the survey ? Answer. Because the maps would not be official. 25. Question. Would not the publication of the data with the maps enable scientific men to judge of the accurclcy of the work? Answer. Of course. 26. Question. Would not the withholding of the data until the completion of the survey enable the operator to force results ? · Answer. No'; in the manner in which the work is canied on it cannot be. 27. Q1JE>sdon. Cun scientific men judge of the accuracy of the work unless the mathematical elements of it be published? Answer. No. · 28. Question. Have the mathematical clements of the charts of Bridgeport, New Haven, and Newark, been published? Answer. No ; that will come into the general account. 29. Question. When do you propose to publish such u general account? Answer. So soon as I sh,1\l have reached the verification base on the Chesapeake. SO. Question. When do you expect to reach that point? Answer. In a few years. 31. Question. When do yon expect to complete the Delaware ? Answer. If I can get out in season, by the end of this year. 32. Question. What prevents your getting out in season ? Answer. The want of money., nearly all the appropriation having been expended. 33. Question. Does the work on the weights and mcasnrcs occupy any of your time, which might be appropriated to the survey? Answer. No. It does not take any of my time. 34. Question. How much of your timo is devoted persona Hy to tho coast

survey?
Answer. All the time, exccpi the inspection ancl reporting on tho weights and measures. 85.: Question. How rirnch time docs it take to inspect and report upon the weights and measures? · Answer. About half an hour in the morning and half an hour in the afternoon of the day, bnt not of each day. This is ouly while I am in the office. I am geuerally in th.e field from the middle of May to that of December; sometimes I am in the field to the end of December. 36. Question. At what time iu the spriug do the <liffercut corps start ou their duties? · Answer. Generally i11 April, remaining until the midclle or end of November. 37. Question. Did yon .Jose part of a year last year; and if so, why? Answer. I lost tl1e most of last year's work, in order to uuswer thPresolutiou of the House of Hepresentatives on tho coast survey of June 24, 1841, and by the fever which seized me in October. 38. Questioi1. At what time <lid you take the field last year, and how much of your time did the resolution occupy? Answer. I did not take the field until the middle of September. The resolution occupied me three or four weeks. I was also detained to make a report on weights and measures. 39. Qne.stion. Is the work in the office now in such a state of forward-

I

Hep. No. 43.·

7

noss as uot to interfere with the commencement of the field work this year, so soon as the season will, permit the work to go 011? Answer. Not iu tbe least. 40'. Question. Why is JJOt the main triang11latio11 np witl1 the. secondary~ . Answer. On account of the <lifllculty of fiuding suitable elevations ori . -both sides of the Dela ware. 41. Question. Who conducts the main triangulation? Answer. l myself, according to posirive stipulation. 4~. Question. Why is not the main triaugnlation carried as far eastward as the secondary ? . Answer. Because it was not needed. 43. Qnestiun. When will it bo 11eedccl? , Answer. So soon as the junction is made with the base line on the Chesapeake. 44. Question. \.Yhcn tlwtjnnction is made, do yon propose to suspend the work south, and go back east, or lo lrn.ve two parties? Answer. When the junction is made, while the secondary triangulation · goes on south, I shall continue the primary triangulation east. . 45. Qnestiou. Cunnot t.lie main triangulation be carried on except under your immediate pcrsoual supervision ? · Answer. Not iu tlic prescut state of things. 46. Question. Whv not? Answer. Uccause ihere is no holly to do it, and the circumstances. are coutrary. 47. Question. Is tliere uobody else ntrache<l to the survey who can do

it?
Answer. Not now.
48. Qncsl ion. \Vhat n re the contrary circumstances spoken of?

Answer. \Vant of money; that is, of a larger appropriation. 49. Question. Must the main tri:rngulation be suspended eastward until you can take it up personally ? Answer. In the present state of thiugs, yes. 50. Q11estio11. In what portio11 of the field work have yon been per!ionally employeu the last year ? Answer. At Yarcls, bohiud Phila<lelphia. · 51. Question. Where tho year before ? Answer. Willow Grow.i nud Mouul Holly. 52. Question. Where~ <lo yon propose to employ yon~solf on the field work tho present year ? Answer. South of Yal'tls and of Mount Holly, on both sides of the Delaware. 53. Question. What is the precise duty or part of the work performed by you at Yards an<l at Mount Holly? · Answer. Measuring the angles of the ma ill triaugulation. 54. Qucs1io11. How mauy assistants were there in tho party in whicll J'Oll operated last year t , Answer. Noue. I <lid the work alone; that is, I cliJ the mathematical work alone. 5.5. Question. Is there nuy person in the coast smvoy competent to take charge of and continue tho work, if you should cease to do it t . Answer. Not as yet. , 56. Question. Do you mean to be understood that without your personal

8
superintend~nce ~he_

l\ep. No. 43.,

wo_rk would cease, awl that no man can take it up, continue, and complete it ? Answer. Not honorably. 57. Question. Is there auy profound secret in the mensuration of triangles and the making of astronomical observations, knawn to vou alone of all mankind ? · · Answer. Science is a public thing, but it reguires stndy to be perfect in it. 58. Question. Is there any p'erson in the survey who is pursuing such a line .of obser~ation and study as to be in the way of Jearuing to measure triangleB and take observations, hereafter, iu you11 stead? Answer. I give them all instruction which they will accept. 59. Question. Does no one iu the survey but yon measure triangles or take observations? Answer. Every one of the principal assistants take the secondary triangles. 60. Question. What difference is there in the mathematical elements of primary and -0f secondary triangles ? Answer. The larger triangles require more attention to the figure of tho · earth and to the mathematical elements arising from it. 61. Question. Does "geodesy apply to the main triangulation and not to the secondary ? ' Answer. More ~specially, but not exclusively. 6.2. Qnestion. How long will it take to finish the work along the wQ.ole coast of tho United States, going on at the rate of time and appropriation heret.ofore used ? Answer. That nobody can say, in either one way or another. 63. Question. What is the whole extent of the general coast, from Passamaquoddy to the Sabine, not including rivers? Answer. I cannot tell. · 64. Question. What proportion of the entire coast of the United· States has thus for been surveyed ? Answer. I cannot say. 65. ·Question. You have said that the latitude nnd longitude of Cape Hatteras was erroneous in tho charts. How did ~ou ascertain it? Answer. By having attempted to make a nnion of the Northern and. Southern rnaps, which join at that place, in 1828. 66. Question. How long before the survey will reach Cape Hatteras? · Answer. It is impossible lo say-it is too vague a gncss. 67. Question. Bilve you any personal knowledge of the location of tho Southern coast? Answer. I have never been any further south than Norfolk. 66. Question; You have said that it was difficult to fiud suitable elevation on both sides of the Delaware, which cause prevented th_e main triangularion from keeping up with the secondary, (No. 40 :) how do you propo!le to obviate similar difficulties on tho Hat coast of the South? Answer. lly care and assiduity, aud by· the methods used on the .Tersey sea coast. · 69. Question. Is that work on the Jersey sea coast a primary or n secondary triangulation ? Answer. It is secondary triangulation.

U~p.

No. 43.

70. Question. What is the peculiarity of the methods nst~d on the Jersey sea coast, where there is a deficiency of natural elevations? Answer~ By adapting the triangulation to any locality which may be found favorable.· · 7 l. Question. You do 1rnt specify any of the means you propose to recur to at the South, iu tho absence of natural elevations. Do you decline to. state what they are ? Answer. No. 72. Question. What are they, then? . Answer. By mixed astronomical and geodetical observations. 73. Questio11. Why were not such means med to overcome the impediments to the completion of the main triangulation on the Delaware? Answer. Becanse they would not apply with propriety. There are better means. 74. , Question. What arc tiiose better means? Answer. By meeting those localities by triangulation from tho south side· of the locality. 75. Question. You say that the peculiar methods by which yon propose to overcome the difficulties on the Southern coast are mixed astronomical and geodetical observations j are not such the ge11eral means used every· where in the survey? Answer. The means of both are different in the two cases. 76. Question. 'Whal is the object of the second base line? Answer. The verification of the whole work, which is in the system of all such works. 77. Question. If the object be to verify the survey, nn<l suppose it does. uot agree, what, i_s the consequence ? ' · Answer. That the error, if any, is to be investigated. . iS. Question. It .is slated in one of your reports that the survey extends, over 11,000 square miles; is that mapped? Answer. Yes, to be snre. · 79. Question. What benefit results to navigation by having all the details of tho topography of the conn try? .. Answer. There is no more topography in the maps than what is necessary for that object. 80. Question. Cannot a portion of tho topography be dispensed with 'vithont detriment to tho object of a knowledge of the coast for navigation?· Answer. Not to that oxtent to which it is carried now. I could not dispense with any of the topography as it is now done. 81. Question. Do not the bydrogrnphical parties have to wnit for thosocngaged on the topography? A11swer. They cannot gn six i11ches without it, but they do not wait; the topographical part has always been ahead. 82. Question. What <listunco from tho coast have they carried the· soundings? Answer. Until they were out of sight of land ; I mean tho points given to them as gnidcs. Those points are made to be seen as far as possible. We olevato signals thirty feet, or more. · The committee wish yon to .state the time each year, since the recommencement of the work iu 1832, at which yon have taken the field, and also the time each party has commenced its work; also, the whole m1mber of months occupied by yourself in making tho main triangulation.

10

Rep. No: 43.

83. Question. You have so1md_ed from Point Judith to Egg Harbor, along. the coast; have those &otmdings been extended as fur out as you intend? Answer. They are complete for the detailed maps, but they have not been carried out so far as I intend. 84. Question. How much further do you intend to carry the soundings? Answer. To the Gulf stream. 85. Question. What will be the probable timn required to extend. the soundings, with the same force now employed, so far as you intend? Answer. As this kiud of work is to be doue by astronomical observations, it depends eutirely on the weather. 86. Question. Where are these astronomical observations to be madf' ? Answ~r. Of course, on board the ship 01· sounding vessel, according to special i11structions given to Lieute11ant Gedney, iu writing, last summer. 87. Questiou by Mr. \Vise. ,For the present, is it necessary, in order to .carry the survey south, to extend the soundings to the Gulf strnam? And, ultimately, will the survey of the coast uot Le complete without extending the 60tmdings to the Gulf strcan!? . Answer. No, to the first clause of the question. As to the second clause, I answer, tlrnt the survey is, iu that respect, ad libitum. 88. Question by Mr. \VisP.. By your answer to the secoud clause, am I tt> understand you as saying that-the Government may carry the survey as far out into the ocean as it chooses, but tlial the smvey, as far as it' goes, wherever it stops, will be complete ? Answer. Yes. 89. Question Ly Mr. Mallory. Do you propose this or the next year to earry on these deep soundiugs, by employing a1'1y of your present force? Answer. \Vhcnever any fit vessel is disposable, withont otherwise impeding the work. · 90. Question by Mr. Mallory. Is it prohable tlH1.t any such vessel will be 1 disposable for that purprise during this or the 11e¥t year? Answer. It is likely, but it depends on the weather. 91. Quc::.tion: Of how many points in the United States have the latitude and longitude beeu ascertained and verified in the course of the snrvey ? Aoswcr. The calculation of the triangles in my work gives, in ultimate a-esult, the latituuc and longitude of each point of the tria11gle, primary and secondary, according to my special form of the work. 92. Question. Ofth~pointsoflatitmle and longitude thus <letermined, how many have been made public? · Answer. None; because it is not yet the proper time. 93. Qnei;tion. Have yon determined the latitude and longitude of any points on the coa~t; and if auy, how mnuy and what? Answer. I liave ascertained the latitude and longitude of points on the .coast as well as inlan<l, according as the triangle fell. !H. Question. \.Vhy ha vc uot these important poiuts on the coast, thus determined, been made public ? ,Answer. The time of the pnblicatio11 is when .the general account of triangulation is given, before which it will be of no use. 95. Question. Did the French, in tho triangulation o{ their country, us.e mixed geodetical and astronomical obscrvatious? ' Answer. Not in the form in which I have stated in the first part of my written explanation. 96. Question. Do you regard the survey as a groat scientific enterprise,

Rep.

No.

43.

11

embracing delicate problems of geodetic research, beyond what is necessary lo au accurate bnt rapid survey of the coast for nautical purposes? Answer. There is not a single movement in all I do which is not nec.essary for the honorable und faithful execution of the work. 97. Question. Is it intcuded us the basis of a topographical, military, and statistical snrvev of the whole United States? Answer. That is the Governmr.nt's business, nnd not mine. 98. Question. ls the survey comlucted now with a view to any such ultimate purposes ? Auswer. That is not givcu in any charges by the Government; therefore 1 do nothing with it. . ' 99. Qnci;tion. Wus 11ot the secondary tl'inugnlation along the Jersey shore found to be sutllciently accurate? Answer. Yes. 100. Question .. Was 11ot the main triangulation through New Jersey made with a view to the topographical survey of that State? Answer. No. 101. Question. Cannot the survey of the bays and rivers be postponed, without injury to the goncrnl work, till tile survey of the coast proper is completed? Answer. It is impossible, because no accuracy could be got for the coast. 102. Questiou. How many plates arc now in the hands of the engraver? Answer. Of actnal copperplates, two. 103. (~uestion. Do these coutaiu the whole map you are now getting ready for pnblicatiou? · Answer. No; the map of New York harbor will cover eight sllch plates. 104. Question. \Vhy arc not more prepa,tiug for pnblication? Answer. Thor are iu work ; i11 a few days we c11.11 cut off a few more. 105. Question. How mauy cugruvers have you iu employ? Answer. Two; I woultl have more if I had the money. 106. Question. How long have these two been employed, and at what asalury? · Answer. Since last .lamrn.ry or December; one at $1,800, and the other at $1,300, pt'r ann111n. 107. Qneslion. \Vhcrc did yon proc1-ire the copper for thc'above engraving, aud wlJCrc the engravers? Answer. The copperplates uscrl \terc procured from Keim, in Philadelphia; the eugra'>:ers fro:n Hambmg, because they were the best, and best
recommendccl. 108. Question~ Cannot American engrnvors put graving which can be put 011 paper?
011

copper all map en·

Ans\\'er. No.
109. Qnestion. What is the ordinary amount of error in transferring from

paper to copper? Answer.· Iu the wuv in which I do it there shall he none. 110. Question. Have the grossest eJl'ors in tho position of places; stated in one of your repo1·ta to have been ascertained l.Jy you during the survey, been pointed out by yon, for public information ? Answer. 'l'boy have not yet been made public, but will be when the w9rks relnting to those places are published. 111. Question. Arc the measures in the survey taken in r~rench metres ? If so, why?

12

llep. No. 43.

Answer. Yes, because it is the only absolute standard; but .the r~sults. are given in yards and metres both. 112. Question. In what parts of yards? Answer. In decimal parts only. · 113. Question. What reason is there why all the data must remain in your office ? Answer. Because they are in daily use there. 114. Questio11. Have you any rP-ason to believe that the surveys mado by Captains Gedney, Wilkes, and Glynn, are not snffieiently accurate for the purposes of navigation? .Answer. !'know nothing in regard to them. . 115. Question. Did the Hritish officers survey the North sea after tho same manner that you are now surveying the coast of the United States? Answer. I am entirely unacquainted with what they did; there is nothing of it published. · 116. Question. You stated in your printed report that you had acl'.:omplished more in a shorter time, and at less expense, than had been done in any other work of a similar kind ; with what works do you make this comparison? Answer. The English general survey of England, Ireland, and Scotland; the French survey of the inland and coast of France. 117. Q11estion. How many honrs per day do your subordinate parties.· work in the field, in favorable weather? Answer. As many as possible. 118. Question. Arc there any data to ascertain how inany hours? Answer. They keep an account, and will answer as to this. 119. Qnestion. Does this snrv.cy employ the whole extent of your mathematical knowledge? Answer. 'No. 120. Question. Do you think that, under the most favorable circumstances, and with continuance of a yearly appropriation of $ 100,000, the survey of the. coast can be completed in twenty years? . Answer. Perhaps. The progress is slower at first, and the means increase as the work proceeds. , Questions by the committee. At what time has Mr. Hassler taken the field each year, since 1832? At what time each party? How many months in all has Mr. Hass\ er been employed in the main triang~lation?

1."imrs of going to tile field wop!t·, and 1·cturning Jrom·it, cacli year.
In 1832.

September 25. Having received the instruments, I left Washington the· 26th Sept~mber, at 8 o'clock, A. M., to J'Ccounoitre for the continnance of my works of 1817, towards the east of it ; returned to Washingtou the 31st January, 1833, in the evening.
1833.

April 5th. Left Washington for the first beginning of actunl p~imary triangulation; returned to Washington the 3d January, 1834, m the . evening.

Rep. No.· 43.
1834.

13

After hal"ing finished.all the preparations and comparisons for rhe meas~ urement of the base line, I left the 29th Muy, at 9 o'clock, A. M., having made also statious; returned 21st January, 1835, in the evening.
1835. There being much calculation to be made, and many nrrangemems for the organization of the parties, the State of Maryland having offered an arrangement, to join the survey of that State with that of the coast survey, I went out only at different intervals, to reconnoitre the couµtry in Maryland, and until Washington, and the outer bays, accompanied by Mr. J. H. Alexander, of llaltimore, until late in the fall and winter.

1836. The present office was established .. I left 17th August, and returned the Sth January, 1837. 1837. I left Washington 4th June, and returned 5th January, 1838.
1838.

I left Washington Ji.ily 19th, nncl returned 24th December, 1838.

1839. I left Washington the 9th .Tune, and returned tho 5th .ranuar}', 1840.
1840. I left Washington tile 17th September, 1840, and anived again at Washington the 20th .Jan nary, 1841.
1841.

I left

·w ushington

2!Jth August, 1841, and returned 22d December, 1841.

This enumeration shows how tho ofiice work has increased since the beginning, when the clements for it were first to be collected in the field. In the progressed state of tho work, the calcnlations, making of projections, to take to the field for the topographic and hydrogmphic works, their plotting, and working out, &c., require as much, and iu most cases even more, work in the oflico thuu out of doors, so that iu<leod the going out for the field work is considered a real relief from tho harder and tedious works of the office. . · For the time of tho going ont or returning of the assistants, for their part' of the work, they must be called up themselves individually; it is easily comprehended that they depend entirely on tho favorable or unfavorable season for the going out as well as for the return.

F. U. HASSLER.
WASllINGTON CI'J'Y,

Jilarcli 30, 1842.
APRIL

15, 1842.

Present: Mr. Cushiug, :Mr. Aycrigg.

James Ferguson examined.
I. Question

How Jong have you been employed in tho C'oast survey?

Answer. Since 10th May, 1833.

14

Rep ..No ..43.

2. Question. Jn what capacity ? Auswer. As a principal assistant; one of the three principal assistants. 3. Question. What 'parLicular part of the duty do yon at present perform? Answer. Making the secondary triangulation. 4. Question .· Who makes the primary ? Answer. Mr. Hassler. 5. Question. ls there a11y essential difference in the scientific principles of the primary and the secondary triangulation ; and if so, what? Answer. The primary requires Hll i11strmuent of great power, and of nicer graduation ; there is no other difference. There is no difference in the mathematical elements. 6. Question. Cannot auy scientific person, who is competent in and well practised in the secondary triangulation, perform tbe primory ? Answer. The primary requires more mathematical knowledge than the secondary, and greater knowletlge· of prnct ical mr.uns ; but to the who lo question, I answer, yes. 7. Questiou. If Mr. Hassler should die, must the survey stop, for want of any person in the survey, or in the country, to take it np and carry it on? Answer. No. 8. Question. Which has proceeded furthest in advance, the primary or the secondary triangulation ? Answer. The secondary. I add, that the s,~comlary is uccessarily imperfect, inasmuch as it depends on the primary for its verification. 9. Question. If the primary had preceded the secondary, might not the latter have beer.. verified as it proceeded? Answer. Certainly. 10. Qnestion. Why hns the primary been allowed to remain in arrears of the secondary triang11\atiou? Answer. I canuot say. 11. Question. Is not the secondary tria11gulntion sufficiently ~ccnrate for all practical purposes in the publication of a map of the work so far as i.t has gone? Answer. Yes; for all practical purpof'es. 12. Question. From what point to what point on the coast have tfw secondary triangulatioil antl the hydrographic<l.l survey been completed ? Answer. The secondary triangulation has been completed from Point .Tncith. inc\11d~ng the sonnd and both sicks of Long Island, to Cape May. covering both shores of New Jersey, and i11cltiding the whole of the J?elnware on both sides; and it al'so rrosstis tl1e peninsula to tile Chesapeake, where it is now in progress, hnt not yet completed. I refer to the officers engaged in the hydrographical work for answer as· to that part of the question., · 13. Question. Do you expect that nny perceptible error iu the secondary triangnlation will be tletected by the further progresf4 of the primary? Answer. I should think the maximum error would not exceed five feet in the whole dii..tance. This I infer from the work already verified, whew T.he error proved to he no greater thn11 this. I rcfor iu this lo my own work; but the other may be, for aught I know, more atcnrate still. 14. Question. Did you use the main triangnhttion as the basis of yonr work (the secondary triangulation) when yon commenced? Answer. Yes.

~ep .. No ..

43.

.15

. ~5. Question. Do you not in fact proceed in the secotHlary triangulation ' at present in the same manner as in the primary~ Answer. The only difl'ernnco is tho difference of the instruments. 16. Question. You have cxhihited to ihe commitree abstracts of the' whole work on the coast, from Point Judith to Cape May; what objection. is there to the p11blicatio11 of those abstracts? Answer. The first objcrtion is, that 110 base of vnrificntion has yet been. measured; the second i~, thnt we are uncertain as to the difforence innny meridian in this conntrr a.nd any in Europe, to a minute uud a half in . longitude; and the~ third is, that we have not yet determined i'he ellipticity of the enrth. 17. Question. Is either of those things necessary to give prnctical utility to the soundings and distancclS in particular bays or harbors? Answer. Perhaps 11ot ; bnt the snperinten<lcnt will of course take care of his character as u mun of science. 18. Question. In )'l)lll' opinion, onght the prnctical use of the work, bv its publicatio11, to mariners, to be deferred indefinitely, for the supposed pm:_, pose of allowi11g the superi11tende11t to tu kc care of his character ns a maa of science ? Answer. No. 19. Qnestio11. Hns the character of the superinte11dent as a man of science suffol·ed by the pnblicntion of the charts of New Ha\·en and Bridgeport, and Newark hay? Answer. No. 20. Question. If not, what injmy wonld it do to his character as a mn1i of science to pnblish a chart or New York harbor? Am;wer. None; snch a map is now in the eugraver's hands, for publication. 21. Qucstiou. '-Vhat injury, hy the publication of chart!'I of the wholocoast, from Point .fndith to tl1e Delaware? · A uswcr. If it wern practicahle, none. 22. Question. Do you furnish the points of observation to the soundiug parties your~ch·cs? Answer.· They arc nscertaincd by us, reported to Mr. Hassler, and by him furnisheJ to the f-OU11di11g parties. 2!:.I. Question. Do yon reduce yonr own observations? Auswer. Yes, certuinly. 24. Qnestion. Have yon been engaged iu l\Jaryland in 183.5: Answer. No; I cnme in Maryla11d in 1839. 26. Question. Was 1111y body eli::e engaged in Mary!Und i11 1835? Atlswcr. Only Mr. Bussler, with Mr. James H. Alt~xunder, 11.s a meie rcconnoiss~ nee. 26. Question. Hns there boe11 nny dillicnlty in procuring suitable po:nts for observl\tio.n us far us tho mnin triungnlation has procl'eded? Answer. Yes; since we entered the valley of the Doluwnre: 2i. Question. Where first? Answer. At Monnt Rose, 11.ear Princeton, in New .Terse~·; so1i1c in openfog the line from Ncwtou,rn; then nt Willow Grove uud ut Sto1.1y Hill;. some diaiculty in connecting Mount Holly with the point helaw; n A"ood deal at Yards. These obstructions could not ha\'e oecnpictl more thut; five· months.

'16

Rep. No. 43.·

28. Question. When is it.you propose to measure a base of verification? Answer. It is spoken· of for this year. 29. Question. Why has it rrot been done sooner? Answer. The work has not been sufficiently advanced. lt has been thought desirable to obtain such a line on the Chesapeake. 30. Question..What is the present condition of the place of the original base line? Answer. I have not been there since 1836. Then the beach was con. siderably ~shed, but the po~nts were undisturbed. Now, I understand, the beach is changed, and the base in danger; but the elements of it will be preserved by the mountaiu base, inland from the .original base. 31. Questiou. Will a minute and a half's difference between the European and American meridians sho\V on ordinary maps? Answer. Yes; it wonld be about a mile. . 32. Question. Why has uot th is difference, in the course of the ten years ~ince the resumption of the survey, heen a5certained? .Answer. l cannot answer that. We have observed eclipses of the sun. We have made no other observations for the longitude. 33. Question. Have the observatio11s thus made bceu reduced? Answer. Yes, and calculated. I add, that, if we had considered it a sine qua non to determine the longitude, the time occupied in this way might have retarded the other work. 34. Question. But you have previously said that the want of the determination of this fact was one of the objections to publishiug any part of the work. Answer. I said it was an objection, but I did not mean to be understood as saying that it was an insuperable objection. ' 35. Question. Is the absence of a base of verification any insuperable objection to the publication of the work along Long Island sound ? A11swer. I think not. I say no. 36. Question. Is the survey engaged now in measuring an arc of a gn~at circle of the earth, with a view to ascertain its ellipticity? Answer. That will be one result of the survey, aud a very important -0ne, in a scientific point of view. 37. Question. When will that result he reached? Ari:;wer. It sbo11ld aw11it the measurement of the base of verification. 38. Question. Is it necessary to have measured such an arc, and verified the ellipticity of the carrh, lJefore it is possible to publish a map, for practical purposes of navigation, of Lo11g Island sound? Answer. 1 think not. 39. Question. Where am the results of the work, so far as completed~ now kept? Answer. In the depot of the survey, at Washington. 40. Question. Are they in duplicate? Answer. Some; not all. The primary triangulation is all in duplicate. Of the secondary, mine is not. As to; tho rest, I do not know. 41. Question. Of that which is in duplicate, are both parts kept at the depot? .j\nswcr. Yes. 42. Question. Several of the public buildings at Washington have from time' to time been destroyed by fire ; is tho depot a fire-proof building? Answer. No; it is uot.

Rep. No. 43:

17

43. Question. If the results and other mattP.rs in the depot shoilld be de;. stroyed by fire, must not the work be done over again? · , Answer. Yes. Precautions have been taken to enable the speedy re .. moval of the papers, if the building take fire, by their being it~ cases on the ground floor. · · ·· · 44. Question. Of the work in duplicate, why is not one copy deposited for safe keeping in the Treasmy Department? Answer. I do not know. 45, Question. Is all the work in such a state that, if Mr. Hassler-shonld die sndcJenly, it may be used, ancJ reduced or calculated immediately. by others? Answer. Yes.

FurnAY

EvE~nm,

.llpril 15.

Examination of !ifr. Ferguson continued.
Present: Mr. Cushing aud Mr. Aycrigg.
[No·n.-To make the cviilence more. Jiatlnot, from question No. 40 lo question No. -74, it must be ·oh·ervc1I, thnl tho st11lt>ml'lll 11fter No. 74, (mnrkci.I A,) the ijlulomont marked "lo be annoJ1eJ to Mr. I·'rrguson's cvi1fonce," 11uJ thu sl11tomonl murkell "10 be u1111cxcJ to Mr. Ferg~on' 1 tcslimnny," togt>thcr with tho chart of Nuwork h11y, rcforroil to in que·lion l'io. 48, weru pro. HentoJ nt thr bc~inning of this mccti'ng; the statements huving bu~n previously prepared, 111 wtiting, by Mr. l· crl(UMon,. in unewor tu questions put to him by the committoo ut the previoua meeting.]

46. Qucs1ion. Is them any substantial and adequato reason why the mathematical elements of the wo.rk should not be published as pa~·ts of it are completed ? · Answer. No other but that it will require time pnt them in order. 41. Question. At what time· in each season <lo you take the field Answer. This is statml in the schedule uuucxcd, am! marked A. -48. Question. There is shown by you a published chart of Newark bay, purporting to be an extract from the U uitccJ. Status coast snrvey ; is there any meridian 011 the map ? ( AnuexecJ, und marked 1l) Answer. No. 49. Question. Is the latitude or longitude of any part of it given? Answer. No. 50. Question. What is the length of Newark bay, ns stated in this map, from Shuter's island to the courlueuce of the Passaic aud Hackensack rivers? . Answer. It is, by the scale of the map, five miles und eighty-two-hundredths. Unt the scale is an erroneous oue, a11<l was not published or verified by 1hn supflriutc11dunt. The actuul distauce botween the two points specified is five miles a11d six hnndretl and twenty-three thousaudths, obtained by me by meusming on the original topographical map. 51. Quesliou. Pleuse 10 i11s1'ect tl1e map of Newark bay, which is now· shown to yon, marked C. Answer·. ltappburs to be tlw s1ime map, cngra veu from the ~:ame. pit o as B; but thescal.e is diffcreut, atHl is at the same time erro11co11~. It seems to be writteu '.tlf·~-n instead of Toh·ir· or crroneou<; in the proportion of 2 to 1, or abont that. 52. Question. If the chart of New York, (If anr pllrt of the coast, be

to

a

18

Rep.·· ·No.~ 43.

.p.ubtislie'dt do you apprehend any dangerous eiror would. be introduced by
map sellers ? · .. Answer. If published without care, there would, und1rnbtedly. 53. Question. Is it considered judicious to suppress the results of the survey, through. feat that, if published, map sellers may make errors in eopyiug the maps for sale? Answer. No. 54. Question. Is the survey of any practical use, unless pnblished? : ··Answer. Yes; in the experience acquired by the officers of the navy and others engaged on the survey. · I am·not aware of any other. · - 55. Question. Do you understand the proper uses of the survey to be confined to the instruction thus acquired by the officers engaged in it? Answer. No; the uses are a knowledge of the coast for commerce and navigation, and a communication of it by a publication of the maps. 56. Question. Can the survey be of auy practical use to tho country at large, without the publication of charts ~nd mrips? Answer. Certainly not. 57. Q1iestion. Where arc the instruments used by yon repaired? Answer. At different places, but generally at the office of the survey · 58. Question. Have you had any difficulty in procuring repairs nt. other ,places? . 'Answer. I have scarcely ever had occasion for repairs; I should think not exceeding five dollars in amount since 1833, when I entered the survey. All my instruments are of European manufacture. They are good instruments. 59·. Question. What. necessity is there of plane-table parties, except near the coast? Answer. No absolute necessity, except for the secondary triangulation llear the coast. 60. Qoestion. How far in from the coast have plane-table parties gone ·on the survey ? Answer. I cannot say precisely. They are carried on by Mr. Gerdes, 1.Mr. Sands, Mr. Boy<l, Mr. Dickens, and Mr. Werner. 61. Question. Do the plane-table parties require much science? Answer. They require practical skill. 6.2. Question. When a secondary triangulation precedes the primary, is it not a second without a first? Answer. Technically, it is. 63. Qc1estion. Is it not working wrong end foremost for a secondary to precede a primary triangulation? ' Auswer. I think not, because the secondary loses none of its accuracy by .the primary following it. · GI. Qne.~tion. Can you ascertain what the errors of the secondary are ;,rntil yoi1 have the primary? Answer. l\o. 65. Q::.estio11. How a.re your distances measured? . A11swer. In French metres. It is not the standard of the country, but it ·.is the standard best authenticated, and best known in geodetic operations. Our staudard is the J<..:nglish yard. The foot is the most common measure usod in this cou11try, hoth for scieutitic and pracrico.I purposes.

·herA.

66. Question. Is the "metre in commoi1 use in this country in any way?

Answer. No. 67. Question. Is it not as easy to convert yard measure into metres as metrt1 measnre into yards? Answer. It is the same thing. 68. Question. In that case, what benefit is there in having the work of .the survey in metres? Answer. None but what I have given before. 69. Question. What is tho standard used in the English survey? Answer. Either the English yard or foot. 70. Question. 'Vhat is the object of the prQposcd second bnse line? Answer. verify the work. 71. Question. Cannot the work proceed north and sonth at the same

To

1ime?
Answer. Not at present, without a larger appropriation and more per.sons ; at least, that is my opinion. 72. Question. ·Ila ve you a geueral knowledge of the configuration of tho
~oast?

· Answer. Yes, to Cape Henry. 73. Question. On what part of the coast, north or south, can tho work be carried on most easily? Answer. At the north, by reason of the nature of the coast. 74. Question. Of how many points on the coast has· tho survey ascertained the latitude and longitude? · Answer. I should think my own points were five hundred; and, alto .· gether, a thousand. .

A.
Year. Timo of taking field. 'J'imc of going home.

1833 1834 1835 1836

May l.o
li'ebrnary 20

Drcember 28. December 3.

April 0
May I April 2,'l May 20 April 1.5 .Tune 16 February 15

.January 10, 1836.'
December 9, Novemher 25. November lD. November 29. December 22. December 12.'

1837
183S 1839 lS4CJf" 1841

It must be undflrstood that these <lutes arc gi\·e1i from rocolloction, and

eau only be relied on as accurate wilhiu u <lay or two.
·Thie
yo~r

( w:11

det:iln~J lllllJJ·~r

from fklJ IV·llk, lo Ct\lctuato triangleM nocoi;1ary (Qr I.he map

·Of .l'i'11w York.

Rep. No.
In 1833 Jn 1834 In 1835
In 1886

4~..

Number of stations made in eack. year.
24,_

64

26 28
19

In 1837
In 1838 In 1839 In 1840 In 1841

10 15 ' lt1 7
203
[-To be 11nncxeil lo Mr. Ferguson's cviilence.J

-To the question of the committee, "What is the distance between Shuter's ~'!!land and the· point at the conflueuce of the Passaic and HackeDsack rivers, aud what the mean width of the ·bay of Newark?" Mr ·. Ferguson answers : That the distance between the above points is 5.623 statute miles, and the mean width of the bay of Newark 1.37 mile. That on a· map of the said bay', printed :it the request of the collector of Newark, the distance between Shnter.'s island and the point between the Hackensack and,Passaic is .5.82 statute miles; but that this nwp has an erroneous scale attached to it, and was 11ot published or verified by the superintendent of the survey. The map appears conformable to the origiu~l of the smvey, but the scale 3ivf'11 for it is iucorrcct. To tic questiou of the co11rn1iitec, "How many points were determined in 1833 iu the main tria!lgulation, and what distance were lhey apart;. what extent of_country did they cover; what number in 183'1, 1835, 1836, 1837, 1838, 1839, 1810, au<l 1841; and what exteut of country do they cover?" Mr. Ferguson answers: That the part of the question as to the distances "apart" is answered by giving, in the followiug sclwdnle, the length of the longest and shortest Jines of the snrvey each year; that it is difficult to divide the works of successive years from each other; and that the computations ure given iii gross in square statute miles, pre:mming that the rornmittee merely wished au appro'ximate and comparable estimate. Jn 1833, length oflongest line, 11Jilcs - 41.3 ( Square miles coverlength of shortest liue, miles 7.2 S e<l, 1,350 In 183·1, 18~!5, aud 1836, though other ~tations were occupied, the primary triangulatiou did not covn any additio11al space. ln 1837, length of longest line, miles · 20,69 ( C· '[ 318 . S ;:,qnarc mi cs, length of shortest !inf', miles 8 73 ln 1838, ln11grl1 o,. lo11~est line, miles - 38.41 l s 'l so0lengtl1 of );hortcst line, miles 23 . 2 !1 S qnare m1 ~s, ln 183!!, leug1h 1 f lon;;m;t line, miles ~:~~ ~ Sqnarc miles, 1,070· le1Jgl h of shortest liuc, miles .Jn l 1'510, lc·ngth of hJ1Jge:;t liue, miles 18.51 is 'l 0" l·!11g1li of shortest liue, mi ks 12 . 30 S . quare m1 es, 2 "

i

1n' 1841,dength of lohgest line, miles length of shortest line, miles
I

-

17 .o 7 S Square miles, 330 3,577

31;0,e

i

Square miles covered by whole primary triangulation

It is but fair, and perhaps also necessary, to st.ate to tho committee that the.effect oC tho primary triangulation, in the progress of the. survey, is uot properly estimated by the number of square miles within the polygon which it makes, but by the quantity of secondary triangulation .for whi.ch it afforded the bases. In this view of the subject, the nuipber of lilqUafe 1miles covered in each year would be much increased.
['fo bo annexed (o Mr.
Ferguson'~

testimony.]

1833-Buttermilk. Round. Bald. Tashua. Monnt Carmul. Rn land. West Hills~ 1834-Base measured. 1835-Reconnoissanco in Maryland. 18~6-West Hills. l 8S7-Hulnud. East base. West bnsP.

Harrow. 183S-Wenscl. Springfield. 1839-Bearon Hill. Disborongh. Stony Hill. Mount Rose. Ne\vtown. Willow Grove. 1840-Willow Grov~.· Mount HoJly. 1841-Yurd.

DEAR

NEWARK, .llpril is; 1842. Sm: Your Jetter of the 16th I received this morning. I am not

in possession of any map of Newark bay furnished Crom. the coast survey. A short time after that snrvey was completed, I addressed the Secretary of the Treasury, requesting such a copy, for reasons then mentioned; l:i.e r~ ferred my letter to Mr. Hassler, who replied, that the coast survey wing a public work and property, such cxtra'cts should uot be given except llpon ~all of Congress; u11tl snch worlc heing under his charge and responsibility, he. should be called npon by the proper Department, &c. I very ~mch regretted that it could not be furnished, as our vessels were subject to ~epeated accidents and dela~s, by reason of tile shoals, which co.u.ld hQ.vc been avoided by snch information. I presume that Mr. H. would be willing to facilitate any mode you may take to procure such extract, as . he expressed himself to me. · I am, uear sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant;
ARCH.~R GIF~QRD~

Hon. JouN. B. AYCiRIOG.
· · 'rho station of Willow Grovo wa1 occupiea both in 1839 and 1840.

R~.·No.
FRIDAY EvENINa,

_43;
184.2.

.!fpril 15,

Present: Mr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.

Examination of Mr. Blunt.
1. Question. J?o you know any sufficient reason why maps and, other relilults of the survey should be withheld from the public know ledge ? Aus\ver. None, when they are in sufficiently complete state to be useful to navigators. · 2. Question. Is any part ofthe survey sufficiently complete for that now?' Answer. Yes. 3. Question. How much? Answer. New York harbor is being reduced for the engravers. Long Island sound is ca.Pable of being reduced from Point Judith to New York. The outer coast 1s already complete, so far as expres~ed, from Montauk point to Great Egg Harbor, I believe, with exception of off-shore soundings. 4. Question. How far it11aud from the coast has any part of the work been carried? Answer. I am unable to say, except in regard to the secondary triangulation, which I have in part conducted. I am one l)f the principal assistants. 5. Question. Arc you acquainted with hydrographical surveys in England ? Answer. Yes. 6. Question. Do they publish results as soon as ascertained ? Answer. They are published in sheets so soon as completed, to be useful to navigation. 7. Question. Can copies or information be obtained by individuals? Answer. Yes; I have known copies to be obtained repeatedly for my brother, "who is a chart seller ; as from the Thunder and from the Blossom. 8. Question. Does the hydrographical ollicc in England derive any profit from the sale of the charts ? Answer. I thiuk £200 or £300 per annum. The charts are published und~r the dfrection of the Admiralty, with the seal of tho Admiralty to authenticate them. · ~· Question. Have you applied at any time, as an imlivi~ual, to the hydrogra,phic office ? · A1iswer. Captain Beaufort offered to give me personally auy information I desired. This was when I was a private individual, before beihg connected with the survey. 10. Question. In your opinion, could the work be extended north and south at the same time ? · Answer. It might. with more force; and with the present force, if the line of verification were not to be measured. We can proceed more rapidly at the nortii thau at the south with the triangulation. 11. Question. In going south, do you apprehend any .difficulty in the hydrographical part of the work, as distinct from the topographical? Canuot the mere coast survey be prosecuted without leaving the coast and going inland? Answer. No. 12. Question. How do you propose to survey lhe coast of Virginia? Answer. By carrying a series of triangles do1v11 the Chesapeake bay,aud

Rep .. No.
1

:48~

by extending:.them up .or down the ~v:allcys of the rivers, as circumstances will allow. . 13. Question. What nat11ral elevations have yon in lower Virghiia? Answer. None of nny consequence. 14. Question. What do you propose to nse as a substitute? Answer. Artificial elevations and signals. 15. :Qnestion. In what way do you propose to triangulate the region of Dismal Swamp, and similar regions of country? Answer. I have no knowledge in regard to that region. 16. Question. Are we not gteatlr deficient in knowledge of ~oundings in Buzzard's bay, Nantucket shoals, Cnpe Cod, and Massachusetts bay? Answer. Yes. 17. Question. Is not ·a ~now ledge of those sonndings of the greatest importance to nayigation? Answer. Yes; it is more wanted there than any.where else. More tonnage passes. Most vessels from Europe, for N&w· York and Philadelphia, come b~tween the Gulf stream and Nnntncket shoals, in addition to the naviga.tion north of Cape Cod. Most of 1he coasting trudo comes through lhe· Vineyard. · . · 18. Question. What amount of work or repaii·s have you had·done in the office here to iustruments? · Answer. Nothing -bnt the mounting of one telescope, which came from Europe without n stand. I have had no difficulty in obtaining repairS' olsewhern, if l1eeded. ' 19. Question. Should yon think it necessary to have n mechanician with yon in the field ? Answer. To measure tho base line it might be desirable; not othenvise. 20. Qnestion. Was any copper imported for the engraving from Viennu? Answer. Yes. 21. Qnestion. W ns it nsed? Answer. No. 22. Question. Why not? Answel'. It was not considered snitable. 23. Q11es1ion. Can good copper for engrnvihg be procured in this country? Answer. Yes. 24. Question. Have you had any practice as an engraver? Answer. Yes. 21>. Question. Can impressions be taken from a plate in an unfinished state, to show the progress of the work? Answer. Yes. 26. Question. Can impressions be taken from the plates now engraving in the survey ? · Answer. Yes, without injury to them. 27. Question. How long 'vill it take to furnish the eight plates of the harbor of New York, with tho present force, at the rate it now goes on? Answer. I cannot state by conjPcture. I should think about three years. 28. Question. Is it not possible to have the work tlone aoourately and' more rapidly than at present, if more hands were put on the \Vork ? · Answer. Yes. 29. Question. ls it necessar~· to have a workshop for the. repair of i'nstruments at the office ?

'~ :Ans.w.er ... l·am not able to say;· i11bere;are some .instruments for· wbich1 it is convenient. ' GO.·. Q.uestion. ln what time could·the New York mal> be finished? Answer. There might be an cngraver.for . each plate;.. 31. Question. Of what use are the .plane -tables, so far as regards na:vigation? , :..J\n$we~ l d<' not consider it of any,m1e to extend the survey any further back than the slope of.the hills at the head·of navigation. 32. Questio11. Are the plaue tables further back? A~e1· ..I do 11ot know bow fat back. I presume they arc. ss,, ~u.estion. What is the siguification of the words '' primary·triangulation ?" _ ·Answe1·. They signify the main series of triangles on which any work to be surveyed is based, extending as far as possiule throughout the work . . . 8 J. Question. What is a secondary triaugulation ? At,swer. · lt is a $eries commenced within the primary triangles, extendiQg in. whole or in part through the same, and dependent on the·primary
1

f!eries.

3i;. Qtlestion. Is it possible for a series of secondary triangles to exist

whel!e: -there are no primary ones?
Answer. No. . 36, ·Question. Is not the use of secondary triangles for plane-table parties to .fumish detailed p(i)ints ? Answer. Yes. '37. :Question. '1f in any work there be bnt one series of triangles, does any such fact exist as primary a11d secondary ? Answer. No. 38. Question .. When you commenced, was not the second.ary triangulation intended to be, as the name imports, secondary_to and within .a primary - triangulation ? Answer. Yes. 39. Qupstion. Is it so now ? Answer. East of New Haven I have extended a main triangulatiou to Ne,w,port, and filled up the same with a secondary series of triangles. 40. Question. Is the main triangulation determiued by Mr. HllBsler, and ending at Yards and Mount Holly, of the same natme as the main or as the secondary triangulation by you, east of New Haven? " A'ni!Wler. The same as the main triangulation by me, east of New Haveu.
APn1L

30, 1842.

Present: Mr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.
l~xan'i.ination

of Captain Swift.

I,· QLiestion.' .Are you employad in the coast survey; and if.so, .. in ·what capacity, and since what time? . Answer. As an· assistant, since 4th April, 1833. lam also the.disburs· ing agent, since about 2d July, iu the same year . ·.2 ·. Question. Will you fminish to the, committee ~n exhibit of the ex penditure on the survey for the years 1841 and 1841l ; say of the aippro priation of March, 1841, classifying the same so as to show the amouu

-expend~u-011 .the maritime, antl

tl1e 11rriount on the land ·part 'of th~"work; the amount on the primaty aud secondary tdaugulntion, and· on·the,plane tu hies; the amouut.for salaries, and for expenditnrt1 at the bureau; ;aadfo'tbe so.me .way of uuy and ull other conveuieutlY. specified classes of expenditure? . .
.Answer. '!'lie answer is aunexed iu the papers marked A 1 and A 2. 3. Question. Will yon furnish to the committee a cop~' of ·a printed pamphlet 011 the coast survey, distributed among the members of thtl H~ttse in February last? Answer. The pnmtJhlet is annexed, (marked B) 4. Qnestion. Is there uny suificicnt rPason for suppressing or otnitting to publish ·rile results of the survey a~ thus for ·a~certained, and as the same mav continue to be obtained? · Answer. No, I thiuk not. 5. Question. May not maps of specific completed parts of the survey be published, while the work is in progress on other parts of the coast? . Answer. Yes. 6. Question. Of how lnl'ge ·n pnrt of the const is the survey now· so far completed that such map:; might be published? . Auswer. The whole of Long Island sound, includil'lg both sides of Loug Island, New Y Qrk harbor, and a portion of the northern part .of. New Jersey, coast aud interior. · · 7. Quest.ion. Might 11ot the soundings, position of headlands, and the like, of all so much of the coast, be now published? · Answer. Yes. 8. Question. Is there any sufficient reason for withholding from Congress the mathematical elements of the survey, so far as completed? Answer. No. 9. Question. Ju whose possession are those facts !llvl data at this time? Answer. They arc at the oflico in Washington, so far ns completed, and ~xccpt so far us parts of the work uow in progress arc in the hauds of tht assilltnnts. 10. Qncstion. Arc there duplicates of the observations, measurements, aud .other uupublishnd clements of the survey? · Auswer. There are of parts, but I think not of the wbolo. 11. Question. Arc the clements of the bnse line, and of other primary and essential parts of the work, in such form a'lld situatio11 as 'to be secure from loss by fil'e, 01' otherwif;c, and be ca pa hie of being he.Udfld OVeMO ·and understood by any cornpeterit successor of Mr. Hassler? Auswer. All this il! in duplicate in the office, accessible to the assistants, and susceptible of being understood n11d used by them. No Pllrt of this has. been published except the final result of the base measurement. The · details have not been published. The papers uro subject to the hazard -of fire ; but not more so, and perhaps less, than iu so~ other buildings in Washington. 12. Question. Is there nny objection to depositing one of the duplicates· in each case in the safes of the Treasury Department? Answer. No. 13. Question. Would not this be proper, to guard against accidents ? Answer. It certainly would.add to ,the security. 14. Question. In what w,ay are the principal duties of the survey subdivid~d between .the superintendent and his assistants?

26:

Rep. No. ,4&

Answer. The dJ.1ties of Mr. Hassler, in nddition to the general snpervision of the work, are the main triangulation, while the assistants are em- · ployed in the secondary triangulation and detailed surveys. 1.5. Question. Is the main triangulation in arrears of the secondary; and if so, why? Answer. It is. I am not aware of the renson, except the illness of Mr. Hassler, and his inability to do it, caused thereby. . 16·. Que11tion. Cannot that work be performed by one of his assistants ?' Answer. Yes. 17. Question. How long hus Mr. Hassler been so ill as not to be able to attend Jo that work? Answer. It was iu October of last year that he became ill. He was also ill the preceding year, in September. . ·· 18. Question. What prevented bis taking the field and performing the work in the spring and summer of those two years? Answer. I am unable to say. 19. Question. ·what snm is allowed to Mr. Hassler, annually, for expenses, exclusive of compensation ? Answer. Salary $3,000, and expenses S3,000. 20. Question. li'or what expenses is this $3,000 designed ? Is it for personal expenses ? Answer. t snppose it is the expenses of living. 21. Question. IR he paid for·other expenses when lie goe11 into the field? Answer. He is furnished with an instrument carriage and horses for th& instruments an<l himself, ancl a baggage wagon besides, for instruments, at the public expense. ' 22. Question. Is it the same carriage which he is accustomed to use i11 Washington ? · Answer. Y cs. , .23, Question. Are horses and men paid at the public expense for the carriaje and wagon through the year ? Answer. Yes; fonr horses, one permanent driver, and one other ·man, who also assists about the ofiice. 24. Question~ Please to specify, in the answer to the 2d question, the· whole of the expenditures on these carriages, horses, and men, as are of the classes of expenditures therein referred to. Answer. It is contained in the paper annexed, ancl marked A. 25. Question. What are the precise duties performed by Mr. Hassler' during the chief part· of the year, in which he remains at Washington? Answer. ·The weights and measures, and the computation of his own ·field work, and occasional general computation. . 26. Questicm. Do not the assistants reduce und compute their own work?· Answer. Yes. SA·runnAY, 111ay 13. Present: Mr. Mallory, Mr. Cushing.

Continuation of lite examination of Captain Swift.
27. Question. Do you wish to add any explanation to the papers llO\V produced in answer to the 1st question, and marked A 1 , and .A 2? Answer. In comparing the accounts in the papers marked A 1 ~nd A 2:. and in the printed sheet B, there is a discrepancy in the sums, as~1gncd to

Rep. No. :431·

9/I

the secondary triangulation and plane-table parties, respectively. The manuscript (marked A 1 and A 2) is the later and correct statement, the statement in B being an approximate, e&iimate, made up before the complete settlement of the accounts. 28. Question. Does the whole amount expended puss through your hands. and how is it drawn from the 'l'reasnry, nnd on what vouchers paid? Answer. All 1hc axpenditnre for work on shore passes through my hands, also the per diem allowance of the officers on board tho vessels; an,d the extra compensation of tho lieutenant commandant; but the other pay:. men ts, in the hydrographical part of tho work, do not pass through my hands,._ being made by the commander of the vessels. 'fhe money expended by me is received by me from the Treasury, 011 requisition made ):iy me on the Department. All the disburserneuts, except for salaries, &c., fixed at the Treasury Department, are made under the authority of l\.fr. Hassler. 29. Question. Who prescrihes the nnmber of subordinate persons to be employed, and the amount of miscellaneous expenses to be incurred? Answer. The assistant _in charge of each party, subject' to the con·rol of the disbursing omcer. 30. Question. Who appoints the persons employed in the survey? Answer. Mr. Hassler. !H. Qnestiou. Who fixes their compensation? Answer. If below $1,000, Mr. Ha8sler; if more, it is referred to the Department. Such is the practic(,, so for as I know. · , ,32. Question. bit necessary to have an instrument maker's shop in tho survey? Answer. I think it is both economical nnd convenient. An amount work was done there the last year fully equal to the cost of maintaining the shop. . 33. Question. Cannot some portiou of the topogra\lhy of the smV'ey be dispensed with without detriment to the hydrographi.: part of the work ? Answer. I conceive that the plane-table survey is nsefnl, but it may not be necessary for any hyllrogrnphical object that it shonld be so far extended. 34. Question. What, then, is it useful for ? Answer. I do not know any thing, except that it contributes a more exact knowledge of the topography of the country adjacent to the coast.

or

to

A 1.

Stalemem of tlte e;rpenditures made for lite survey of tlte coast of tl1t United States, and /01· engraving lite chart of tltc lwrhor of NewYork, during the year 1841 and a part o/ 1842.
Amount expended by Captain W. II. Swift, from 1st January, 1S41, to 31st December, 1841 - $80,639 13 Amount oxpended by Commander Thomas R. Gedney, 17th May, 1841, to 31st March, 1842.' 9,162 42 Amount expended by Lieut. Commandant Geo. S. Bio.kc, 11th Murch, 1841, to 28th February, 1842 4,766 77 $94.56& 32:

Jlep . , No .. A3~
1Jetail1 ;of the expenditures;
For .t):ie main triaugulation,.i~~luding the com-

. perisation of the snperinteudent, the heliotro-. per~, a~1d ha11ds employed therein, and all incidental expenses,. except ·horse~,. wagons, and harness, and repairs of same, and pay ·. and subsistence of driver - $9,289 87 J'or horse keeping, (4 horses,) repairs of one iu. sti'nrnent carriage, one wago11, harness, and pay and subsistence.of driver I,445 98 7 · For the secoudary. tri&ngll.).ation, including the competisation of th_e ass~11\ants, heliotropers,anu hands. employed therein, and all incidental expenses, except horses and wagons, harness, and repairs of ditto - 20,656 14 For horses, horse keeping, repairs of wagons, aud harness, pay and subsisie11ce of 2 drivers, (3 wagons and 5 horses) 2,160 74

$10,735 85

22,816 SS

Ji'or the plane.table surveys, including the compensation of the assistants and the hauds employ(ld ~herein, and all incidental expenses For the hydrographic surveys: :\mount paid by Capt. Swift to the naval assistants, for the authorized allowance of $627 per annum to the lieut. commandants, and of .»)1 per <lay to the . lieu~enants and passed midshipmen, For amount paid by Commander T. R. Gedney, from 17,th May, 1841, to 31st March, 1842, for repairs of 2 ve~sels, sails, boats, pilotage, and incidental expenses, (Washington and Jersey) For amount paid by Lieut. Com't G. S. Blake, for same from 11th March, 1841, to :February 28, 1842, (schooners Gallatin and Nautilus) -

17,:H.2 ~g

S,644 94 ·

!J,162 42

4,766 77 22,574 13 1,999 17

For expenses of the coast survey office, inclnding rent, fuel, lights, and attendance - . For expenses of the instrument maker's shop, including the compensation of the persons employed therein, and the cost of tools and materials purchased for sume For compensation and expenses of. the persons employed in engraving the ch.art of the harbor of New York For the general expenses of tho work, including the compensatiou of all assistants and others not embraced in the preceding schedule, and all purchases and expenditures .not specified in same -

2,318 11
2,011 14

W. H. SWLF,T, Disbursing Officer Coast Survey.

-===-

14,900 75 94,668 32

W .ASHINGToN, May 41 1842.

.Rep. NO· 4:J.
A 2.

List of all persons empwyed in lite sm·vey of the eoast of lite Un:ileil States on lite lst .!lpril, 1842, and the ummal compensation paid tbtliem by Captain W. If. Swift; disbursing ojficer,jrom the appro· priati01i tl1eref01·, made l'tlarch, 1841.
F. R. Hassler, superintendent, $3,000 salary, $s,ooo expenses ~6,0M o~ Captain W. H. Swift, assistant and disbursing offieer, 2& per cont. upon disbursements 1,908 60 4,000 00 Ja)'lles Ferguson, assistant Edmund Blunt, do 4,000 00 500 0() Lt. Thomas J. Page, do C. M. Eukin do S,000· 00 Charles Renard, do 3,000. po2·,ooota() W. M. Boyce, do 2,000 OC) J. J. S. Hassler, do John Farley, do 2,obo oo. Lt. B. !<'. Sands, do 1,500 0() Thomas We.mer, do 1,500 00 H. L. Dickens, do 1,500 0() F. H. Gerdes, do Samuel Hein, clerk, $1,000 per annum, 154 per week for board I,208 0() in Washington Vvilliam \Vi11dema11, instrument mnker, $800 per annum, $4 per \veek hoard in Washington , 1,008 00 Thomus McDonald, artificer and hcliotroper, $600 per annum; aud' $4 per week for board in W nshington 808 00 Selman SeibC'-rt, engraver I ,800 001,SOO · 00 Albert Rolle, do Ludolf Muller, calculator and holiotroper, $800 por annum, and $4 per week for board in Washington 1,008 OC\ C. F. Flint, copyist (of calculations) and. heliotropcr, $600 per an11um, and $4 per week for bourd · 808 00 W. Jacobi, employed iu the instrument maker's shop, nnd ho· liotroper, $2 50 per working day 182 so Samuel Schmid, copyist (of culcnlations) and heliotropor, $300 per.annum, und ~4 per week for board in Washington .. 508 00 Gustavus Windemau, heliotroper and filer in the instrument 508 0() maker's shop, $300 per annum, and 84 per week bonrd I-I. I~~ Whiting, dnughtsmau and heliotroper, $300 per an1mm, ·aud $4 por week for bonrcl 508 00 Bdward Sweeney ,d1·iver, (main triangulation,) $18 per month, 404 00 and $4 per week for board in Washington William Greason, messenger, $18 per month, and $4 per week 404 00 for board in Washington ChristophorKuft, fire mnker, watchman, &c., ·~lls por month, and .!64 per week for board in W nshington 40'1 00 George Knngnau, fire maker, wntchman, &c., (tempornrily employed since 1st January, ·IS42,) $18 per month, and $4 per week for boanl in Washingto11.

w.

llgdrographic surveys.
(:~mi:nander Thomas R. Gedney. · ,Lieutenant Commandant G. S. Blake .Lieutenant G.. M. Bache .
S627 365 865 365 365

oo

Ll.eutenant J. K. Mitchell Lieutenant H. S. Stellingen .. ,Lieµtenant .Tohn M. Dale Lieutenant E. G. Parrott fassed M!<.lsbipman H. H. Lewis Passed Midshipman W. A. Bartlett
WASHINGTON,

00 00 00 00 365 00 365 00 365 00

W. H. SWIFT, Disbursing Officer Coast Survey.
llfay
4,

1842.

, When an assistant or other person attached to the work is ordered by the
supe~intendcnt from one place to another on public duty, the actual amount

paid for railroad, steamboat, or stage fare, is refunded to the person incur-

ring such expense.

W. H. SWIFT.

B.

·'

Remarles upon tl1e surve,y of tlie coast of the United Stales.
l. The law authorizing the survey of the coast was passed February 10, 1807. 2. Circular letters were addressed by the Treasury Department to variqus scientific. men in the United Statt1s, a$king for a plan of operations. Thirteen such were received, and submitleu to a committee of learned men. in Philadelphia, with the late Professor Pattersou at their head. Afler full consideration, the plan proposed· Mr. Hassler was adopted. . 3. From the passage of the law until 181 l, no active steps were taken, in consequence, principally, of the u11settled state of the con11try. 4. In August, 1811, Mr. Hassler wus sent to England to procure instruments, in accordance with the plan propostld by him in 1807. These instruments had all to be constructed; and, for the purpose of supPrintending the same, he remained in England until 1815, at which time he returned to the United States, with all the i11stnune11ts and appendages requisite for the work. The war, want of remittuuces for pa~rrne11t of the instruments purchased, the difficulty of procuring suitable artislf! to construct the same, &c., conspired to protract his stay in England neni·ly two years beyond the time which he had allotted to this pnrt of his labor. 5. In August, 1816, Mr. Hasslo1· was appoi11ted to superintend tho survey of the coast, under the law of 1807. The necessary prnparations for the work, inclmling reconnoitring, &c., consumed the 1ime be1 weeu Augnst, 1816,and April, 1817. At that p1iriod a proper locality for n. boi;e line wus di11covered in New Jersey, aud in July of the same ycur 11!0 act uni triangulation was commenced . .6. April 14, 1818, that part of the la\v which authorized the employ-

by

.. RepJNo. ~·43.

vy Was .repealed, nnd thus was Mr. Hnssler's connexion wilh tbe coast sur.vey·closed. 7. Up to this period, 'the whole amount expended for the work'was $55,634; of this amount, $37,549 ho.d been expended for instruments ·and .the expenses of procuring the same, leaving about $18,000 for the cost of the survey, equipment for the field, &c. · 8. In 1819, Mr. Hassler presented to tho American Philosophical Society iOf Philadelphia. his papors upon the coast snrvt~y, describing the method and .means by which it had been designed to conduct the work, together with foll descriptions of the inslmmnnts, with drawings of same, examples of the journal~ of observations, &c. These papers were published by the society, in their volume of Transactions for 1825, and are now in the Library of .Congress; they contain much valuahle and interesting information upon the subject. They were reviewet.l by ·the principal astronomers of Enrope..Bessel, Struve, Schumucher, Ferrusac, Francoeur, Krusenstern, &c.-all uniting in the opinion that the plr;tn of Mr. Hassler was of the first order, .and that the instruments were in every manner adapted to the pnrpos~ for which they were designed. Iu 1832 a distinguished astronomer of France, .now employed by the Governll}cnt of the United States, declared that the instruments planned by Mr. Hassler for the coast survey, and executed under, his eye, were, when constructed, twen_ty yea?'$ in advance of the ~sjence qf Europe. · 9. In l827, the survey of the coast, after a lapse of ten years, again ex-cited public attention. The Secretary of the Navy, (Mr. Southard,) i.n·dcscribiog certain surveys which had been made by naval otncers for an especial purpose, stated in bis annual report thnt "the time within which it was supposed -desirable to make them, [tho surveys,] nnd the means granted by the appropriation~ did not permit them to be so made as to furnish perfect surveys apd charts of those harbor.;; nor cun sue/, survey~· be made without the aid of the means contemp/rtled by tlie act of 10th Februury, 1807, to provide for surve,yin1: tl1e coast of llie United States." Iu 1828, tho.Commillce on Naval Affairs addres~ed a lotter to 'the SecTetary of the Navy, (Mr. Southard,) LU1king information in reference to the survey of the coast, to wit: whether it ought to be mnde; the best plan for ·tno.klng it; what progress hnd heretofore been made, &c. rn i·cply' he proceeds to say, after referring to a list of maps and charts:" Of the whole .of the maps and charts in possession of the Government, it' may be remarked that they do not furnish a satisfactory stm·ey of the coa!lt, for the following reasons: " J. They exhibit detached parts, dnconnected with each other. "2. Are generally confined to the shore, and do not extend sufficiently for into the ocean. "3. Were many of them made by incompeterit men, with incompetent means. "4. They were governed by 110 fixed and certain principles or ·guides, iu . .ascertaining the latitude and longitude of tho principal points and positions. "5. They do not embrace tho whole coast. "For I/use and otl1er reasons they are unsafe, and, in many instances, 'Useless and pr.rniciotts." 10. Jn ans\vcr to tho q11e~1io11, "Whether, in tho opinion of the Department, such survey ought t~ be made?" the Secretary replies: "Upon this point no doubt is entertained. It is called for by rcgnrd to our ~ommerciaJ..
nl~Ut of persons Other than those belonging to the nrmy and Ull

R'.Cp. No. '.f!I.
and naval interests, and to our means of national defence. I do not understand that you require a t1tatement in, detail of the reasons for this opinion; they will readily suggest themselves to every mind." 1 11. July 10,.1832, the law. of 1807 was revived, and the employment of such "astronomers and other persons" as the President should deem proper was again authorized. 12. At the request of th.e Treasury Department, Mr. Hassler submitted a plan of operations for the work, being, in fact, the same which he had proposed in 1816. On the 9th August, of same year, he was again appointed to the survey, and to carry into effect the la·w of July IO; Prior to this period he had been employed by the Treasury Departmentjn mak~ ing compariso11s of the various weights and measures in nse at the several custom·houses, with a view to the construction of uniform. standards of the same fonhe Union., . 13. The two wol'ks, of the coast survev and that of the construction of stands:rd weights and measnre11, being, "by their uatnre, intimately connected, and the means of accomplishing each being in many instances tho same, Mr. Hassler was charged by the Treasury Department with the execution of both; and, since the period reforrcd to, the two works have 1 eceived his whole attention. 14. Since 1832 the survey of the coast bas been diligently prosecuted. The remaindev of the season, between August an<l December of that year, was employed in reconnoitring and othe1· preparations; aud early· in the following year (1833) the triangnlation was recommenced, and has been making steady progress from that time to the present. In 1834'Jl new base line was measured.on Long Island, awl the secondary tria11gulutio11, hydrograpbical work,and plane-table smveys, have also been in active progress, pari paasu. 15. By the offiaial statement of the Secretary of the Treasury, (Doc. 57, H. R., Jan. 31, 1842,) it will be seeu that the aggregate amount expendod from 1808 to 30rh June, 1841, is $512,7:31 68; of this sum, by the same statement,'* $33,723 05 has Ileen expended for the purchase of "instruments, books, aud repairs of instruments." This, with various snms ·expended for 5 surveying vessels, 20 boat11, with all the requisite acoomJ>ani·ments, and the uecessary equipJJ:ent for tile several parties engaged in the secondary triangulation aud plane-tablo work, makes 11 gross sum which exceed!J $120,000, for objects of a permanent nature, now the property of the coast survey. This would reduce the amount expended upon the work itself to $:rn2, 7:31 68; if to this snm he added the whole amount of the estimate of the Secretary of the .Navy, for difforence between shore puy and !'lea pay of tho officers, and for pay n1J1i'ra1ions of the crews of the several vessels, from is:H to lS4 l, ($114,584,) we shall have a total sum expended of $507,315 as, for about 11 years of actual work, or about $46,000 per annum. 16. When the operatiorL<i of the coast survey, under Mr. Hassler, \\'ere suspended in l 818, by the repeal of a portion of the law, the 8ystem which he had adopted was also suspended, aud the11ceforward detached portions of the coast were assigned for survey to 'naval officers, from time to time. Indeed, this same system, which was co11dern11ed so thoroughly by .Mr.
· There is an
iiicnt~

er~or in thiP part of lhti Rcgi·tor'1 ~taltmout; fur the urigi11al collcctioll of i1i'stru-· CO·l $37,54~, unJ nJJition11.I iriHtrumcnt& have ~inrc been procured.

Rep.-

No.

,43~

So\1thard in 1828, a1~d for which the. ioun.d re.asons quoted from 1hi~ re'por,t~ at the 4th page of this pa.per, were given, is snll pursued-at what ex.peps& exactly we have not the means of stating. An approximate estima.~e m11y be formed, however, from the following facts: The direct cxpenditt\res; as exhibited 'by the printed statements' iu the office of the Register of the Treas~ ury,from 1818 to 1841,nro $63,520 20; 'he incidental or indirect expenditures do not appear, but perhaps an idea of the extent of the same he formed upon the followiug dat~: In 1832, $5,000 wer(l nppl'Opria.ted (or the· survey of Narrugunsett bay, iii Rhode lsla11<l. There were emp1oyed h1 this work, 1 post captain, 3 lieutenants, 5 passed mi~shi~men, arid 18 seamen, for one season, say six month~. This appropriation of $5,000 is nearly 11-:rth of the whole 11mou11t of dfrect cxp~uditnres. Adopting the same prrur.iplcs in computing the cost of the work char5eable to. the naval establishment, whfoh tha Secretary of tJ10 Navy adopted iu ~rutiri~ Sl 14,584 as the amonnt properly chargeable to the coast survey, for difference between sen: and shore pay, and subsistence of officers, and pay aud rations of searnen, we shall have a gross snm, for six months, of up\vards of '$4,<ioo. · Therefore, fo1· every $5,000 expended directly fo1· the work, we .should add $4,000; uucl this, for the $63,.520 20, amounts to $50,800., . It may be inferred, also, tlrnt nothing is included in t.he 11bov0 $6S,520 .20. for purchase or repairs of vessels, cqnipnieut, &c., these being provided, us mmal, in the gei1eral expenses of the naval es!ublisl1111qnt; on the contrary, both purchases uncl repairs of vesRels, bonts, fnrnitnre, &c., is 'chargeuble upon the coast survey fnnd, for all which now belongs to the work~ Here, then, we have. n snm of $114~320 us the cost of sonw detached surveys of portions of the coast. Surveys of this nature, and, those which t1rti executed 11pon propei· principles, aro so uulike i11 character that they do uot admit of comparison. We proceed now to slate briefly the priuciples upon which tho st1rvey of the coast is condnctocl. . · The pr\nciplc upon which the sur\·oy of the cnast is cond 11ctcd is, osse11tlally, thO:t which is known all the trigonometric method. B~· the relat.ions . which subsist between tho 5:idcs 1111<l nuglcs of a triangle, we art'l enabled, .from certain known data, previously dott.muineu by actual measurement, to comptfte certain other parts which ure unlrnowu. For example: in ii' given triangle, by measnriug one of the' sides aud thr. n.ngles, tho two remaining sides can be delerrnincd by compntution. Tltc1'e 1~ornputed sides ihim servo as bases for other triangles, nnd s11hsc1)lh~111ly, by llleasuring thA· un~les alone in the trinngll'ls thus formed, the work is extended ad tibr'.tu.m. ~rh1s is cnlled a triangulation, and mny he mailt) npou any pa1't of the earth's surface upon which a. line of a given extent can ho me.1snrod. · " A triuogulution may bu complete iu itself, ancl, whun tho necessary cor1'ections hu ve been made for the fi:;mc of tliu r.arlli, the uctnal distance be1 \voen two points cnn bu nccurntely dotenui!1otl. Bnt this, ulouo, is not ·a: that is required; it is uccc:$sary to u.5certa.i11 tho trno position of the district or country triangulated npon the earth's ::;urfaco-Lhat is to say, its latitude nnd its lougiturle,. The first of tlies11 i:0 iudnpendont, it heing simplyits dislnnco from the equator; while thr. SL!corHl is not i111.lornndont, hut re·fors to the position of som·~ o!lior poiiit on !hu enrth\1 smface, and under another meridi:rn. This btlor place, or meridi:rn! nmy he assumed at will; uucl thn qnestiou 1!1cn to be tletlm11ined is simply the difference fo time be· hvceu tho two plucos of ouservatiou ; uucl this being con vcrted into de ... ,

may

3

. Jj'or ~hese d~termmauons, observations upon thehenvenly bodies musi be resorted to. It is not necessary, however, that celestial observation!f ·should"be made at everypoint d.etermined by the triangulation; on the con 7 ·u:,a,ry; a few weH-d.etermined positions, ascertained by fl long s,eries of ob~ s~ryations, often repeated, are sufficient, the connexion between the same J,eiqg determined by the trfangnlutiou; hence the survey of the coast,· as J)OW .conducted, is made by combined or mixed geodetic and astronomical observations. · Here, then, is the es.sential difference _between a survey by triangulation 'arid astronomical determinations, or eve11 thfl so- called "chronometric .sur. 'vey,'' (a misnomer, by the way, for it is uot a sw·vey.) One consists in a coooecte,.d work, carried on upon the earth's surface, and made by mean!f· of an~ uninterrupted series of triangles; while the other is composed of a col.lection of.observations npon the celestial bodies, made at detached points, ;each place of observation being i11depe11dent of the other. In the firs~ methqd the connexion is complete, while in the others there is no conuexhm wbatevcr. · To th~ question, whether the mode of making the survey of the coast by ·triangulati\>n is better than any other, it may be said to be the only truly eo;rrect methotl which can be pms,ued. It is the only method by which a. ~o.n.nt'xion in the work can be preserved. Of its accnracy the proofs are cont.iouaUy before the observer, and an error need not ue extended. beyond a sjogle triangle. The three angles are measured in every principal tri·angle of the work; and, as this is hll the mea.1·m·err1ent which takes place aJtcr the base is determined, it is obvinns that the observer has his proofs of correctness continually at ban<l. There ca11 be 110 coo~in!{ of observations, as is sometimes practi~ed in astronomical determinations. An idea of the exceeding accunicy attainable in works of the nature re~ ferred to may be formed by referriug to the account of the measurement .made by the French astronomers of the arc of the meridian between Dunkirk and Cabrera, for the determination of the. figure of the earth, being 12 degrees of latitude in extent. 1\.ftcr a great number of triangles had been measured, and an extent of about ·.soo miles upon the meridian determined, (between Melun and Perpiguan,) a base of i1erijication, as it is denominated, was meaenred at Perpiguan. This verification consi~ted in measuring wirh the greatest accuracy one of the sides of a triaugle in the series, which had been pnwionsly determiucd by compntatio11 from the original basP.. Tile ditfl!re11ce hetwreu this corupnte<l side and the actual measurement ·was less th:rn 2 feet.,. lu the work of the survey or the coast, the secondary triaugulation now cucompasst·s Ilic southern part of the State of l\'cw Jersey, from. Staten ish1ml to Cape ;\lay; one series of triangles w~s carried aro1fod on the cast or coast si1k, wl1ile a second was corrie<l down the Delaware river nud hay, uniting twar tile so11thern point of the ~tatc. The leugth of the side of the 1riat12le wliich was common to both series was, of course, <letcrmiued hv each ch~i11 of tiia11:;les-one by the coast, and the other by the Uela,,·,var.e bay'; 1hc dilft·re11cc betw~en the two <letrrminations was two metres, or about six fol't. In the primary triangles this difference will, from preijcr~t appca rnuces, be less than one foot.
· La Pl11Cc·

~\Y'9 ,Pla~~~.

gi:e~~ c~~sti.~ute,&;the longituJe,or rather the difference of longitude betw.ee~

. . .

.

.

.

.

..

35
, Surveys of all the countries of Europe have been or are being made by the 'system of triangnlo.tio1J, to wit: Austria, Russia, Sweden, Denmark, Hanover, Prussia, Swabia, Bohemia and the States of Germany generally, Italy, Naples and Sicily, ~witzerland, France, England, the British po$ses11ions in India, and the French colony in Algiers. . · · "Europe is covered with well~connected series of triangulations-from the south of Sicily to the polar circle; from Ireland, through England, France, Germany, to the interior of Russia; from Bordeaux to the frontier of Turkey, and in all the intermediate pnl'ts." Some of the practical benefits which have resulted from the coast survey arc already apparent. The discovery of t.he ship channel into the'harbor of New York, the better determinations of the channels into Pela ware bay, and the detection of the grossest er~ors in the existing charts of that bay, cons.titute portion of the advantages which have already been derived from this work. The engraving of the chal't of the bay and harbor of,New York, with the country adjacent to the same, within a circuit of twenty miles, is now i11 progress; two sheets, embracing the entrance to the harbor, with. the channel delineated thereon, are already in a state of great forwardness, and, in all probnbilty, will be completed by the 1st of .Tune, 1842. · To the question," Whether no other mode exists by which accurate results can be obtained within Jess time than they can be furnished by a trig· onometrical snrvey," the answer is, No. There is no short method by which these results are attaiunble. It is not' the "quantity" of triangles alone which detenniucs the iudu'Stry or skill of the observer, but the quality. To make the triangulation of a givon district of country with tP,e leuat possible number of W!3ll-conditioned triangles, is one of the important problems to be solved; quality, again, and not quantity, is the essential requisite. Usually, the cxperien~c of the world is justly considered when any great object is to be attempted or effected. Why should it be excluded from the category, in judging the merits.of this magnificent work? We have the combined testimony of all tho science of Europe in favor of making surveys by triangulations, nnd, in fact, the positive assertion that it is the only proper method. Why shonld we not adopt the conclusions of nation11 which, to say the least, arc older in these matters than we out'· 8elves are, rather than to resort to methods which arc a century ·behind' the age we Jive in? Why, with the great advantages whicl~ the ''chronometric ~ystem" is said to possess, is it not adopted by those who are best capable of judging it by its merits ? Huther let the whole wol'k be <Jcstroyed, than to suffeL' it to be done discredit11bly. If we cannot ma.lee it in a manner which shall hear the scrutiny of the scientific world, let it rest for another fifteen years. Sextants and chronometers are invnlnnblc instruments in their ·proper Rpherc, bnt they certainly do not furnish tho means bv which trilingulatious nre to be made, or corrcctod, or superseded, as some would seem to d.esiro.

a

Organizati'pn
r

<Jf the work.

1. 'fhe main or primar,11 lr'ia11!(ulation, upon which nil the work dcpeuds, is ~nade up ?f triangl~s, having sides of from 10 to 50 miles in ex· teut. The angle~ m these triangles lire all measnrcd br Mr. Hassler. .

Rep. No.

43~

2. Within these main triangles, smaIJ~r triangles are formed; this con· stitutcs the ,fecondary tri,angttlation; the ,sides of these vary in length from 2 to 1O miles. The angles of these triangles aro measured by th(l assistants of Mr. Hassler; two and sometimes three parties are engaged in this part of the work; usually they enter the field in March and April, and leave the same for the calculations, &c., in the O'ffi.ce, in December. 9. The se!!oudary triangulation, in turn, forms the basis of the planetable or topographical surveys; these include all the details of the ground, outline of the coast or shore, courses of bays, rivers, roads, &c. This por,. tion of the work is distributed among 5 or 6 parties, each having a district of country allotted to it. A party consists of l assistant and 5 or 7 hands, according to the nature of the country to be surveyed. These parties u~ually take the field in April and May, and return to the office, to make up .their plottings and maps of the work of the season, in November. 4. The hydrographic determinations are made entirely by the naval as:sistants of Mr. Hassler. Points on shore arc furuished by the triangulation, both main and secondary, together with the coast or shore line from the plane-table smveys. By this means the sounding parties are enabled to determine the true position of their soundings, by measuring the angles subtended between stations previously established upon the shore. Two parties are engaged in the hydrographic part of the work, each being furnished with the necessary assistants from the navy, and with vessels, boats, &c., belonging to the coast survey. These parties are engaged in their labors upon the coast from April or May to November, according to the character of the weather ; in the winter months they are employed in layi.ng down upon their charts the results of the work of the season. The triangulation now extends from Narragansett bay, Ullode Island, to Cape Henlopen, Delaware, on the coast, aud from the neighborhood of New York to the head of Chesapeake bay, covering an area of about 11,000 square miles. The hydrographic surveys cover 5,600 square miles, and the. topographical or plane table surveys 4 1200 square miles. Thill work is represented upon upwar<ls of 200 maps and charts, of various scales, ac,~ording, to the nature of the work, from Tefrnr to T"D"ih·inri that is to say, one foot in extent upon the map will represeut, accordiug to the scale used, 5 1000 feet, or I 00,000 foet upon the earth's surface. The actnal length of coast line, (including Long Island,) already determined and laid down upon the map, is 691 miles Do. of tho larger bays, rivers, and islands 697 · "

Total of sborc line, coast, bay, &c.

-

-.

·

I,32R

"

C/{lasifica..lion of the expenses.

The wl,1ole amount expended for the survey of tho coast from the appropriation therofor, for the year 1841, was
$96,l 74 98. 1. Of this sum, the general expenses of the work, including the main triangulation, compensation of all porsons em-

ployed therein, instruments and books, and all expenses not emm;ierateu it~ the items below, amounted to S32,671 O!J 2. The secon<lary triangulation, i11cl11ding compensation of persons therein employed, 3 parties 19,3.52 OB

Rep. No.

~43.

37

The hydrographic surveys, including the cost of repairs of · the vessels, boats, &c., aud allowances to officers for expenses, 2 parties an4 4 vessels ~i5;459' 16 4. Plane-table or topographical ·surveys, including compen18,692 67 sation of all per~ons employed therein, 6 parties 96,174 98 --------

s.

The conclusions which are deducible from thE' preceding remarks may be summarily stated thus: · l. ·Availiug ourselves of the experience and practice of all European nations, it is just to conclude that the survey of the coast can only be. made (if it shall be accurately executed) by a triangulation. 2. Conceding the grotmd that it is by a triangulation alone that exact results can be obtained, it may be shown, by a reference to the. history of similar works, that the methods pursued in executing the 1mrvey of the coast of the United States are, in principle aud in details, in accordance with the best of those adopted by other nations. WASHINGTON, February 25, 1842.

(It i~ proper to state that thiR paper on the coast lurvey was prepo.reJ hy Capt. Swit\.]
0

MAY 2, 18~2.

Present: 1\fr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.

E.vaminalion

of Captain

Thoriw~ R. Gedney.
0

1. Question. Arc you an officer of the navy? Answer. Yes. ' 2. Question. Are you now employed in the coast survey ; and if so, since what time and in what capacity? · . Answer. I have boen employed in it since October, 1834, in ch1uge of one of the hydrogro phicnl parties. 3. Question. How many of such parties nre there? Answer. Two. The other is commanded by Lieutenant Blake. 4. Q11estio11. How many persons, ancl what vessel or vessels, are em- i ployed in yonr party? · · / Answer. Last year I hacl two vessels, the schooner .Jersey and the brigV Wushington, with, I think, fourteen officers, all told ; uud, I believe, thirtytwo seamen and forty-four boys. '!'his amount of force was-necessary. 5. Question. Whnt surveys have you made since October, 1834? Answer. I hnve bean engaged in making sonndings. , I commenced iu Fire Islaml bay in 183·1; then the outer coast of Long Island, in 1835, from Fire island to near New York; then the harbor and bny of New York, and to Montnuk point, along tho outer coast of Long Islo.nd, in part of 1835 and in 183,6 and 1837; in I 838 and 1839, from Fisher's island to Block island and Point .Judith; in 18'10 and 1941, on the coo.st of New Jersoy,ns far as Egg Harbor. These soundings inclnde also all the inland navigation from. Flre island to Egg Harbor. In addition to thi~, in 1841, I performed a piece of detached work between Cape Henlopen and Cape May.

38

R~p.

No . .431

6. Question .. Have you completed the soondings along the whole extent of coast from Point Ju1lith to Egg Harbor,? .Answer. Yes. · 7. Question. Ar.c those soundings, as verified by you, in ·a. condition to be. published.? ' Answer. Yes. s. Question. Do you make any astronomical or other observations on the coast? Answer. No, except so far as may be needful to keep niy own time. 9. Qnestiou. Have any views of the co11.st been takon by you or from your vessels? · .Answer. Ye~. Mr. Farl11y has taken a panoramfc view of tho whole of Long Island and of oll the ligl1t-houscs wherever I have sounded. We have taken no other views, except of the entrance of the new channel in New York harbor. Qile$tion. Is the coast of Long Island an easy or a difficult one? . A1iswer. I think it an easy one myself. / 11. Question. What is the chief occasion of wrecks on Long Island? Answer. When vessels are running in, and are caught by a heavy sonth-,caster, it is difficult to get out, from the trending of the two coasts of Long · Island and of New Jersey, and the current setting from New Jersey coast, by reason of which vessels, being thus embayed, are apt to be driven on shore. · 12. Question. Have you sounded Jamaica bay~ Answer. Yes, in 1835. 13. Question. What depth of water did you carry into that bay ? Answer. Six feet at low water, eleven and a half at high water, in common tides. At the present time, .the depth at low water is seventeen feet. 14. Question. Would not the knowledge of the actual depth of th~ water in the channel leading into Jamaica bay be useful to a vessel which was unable to claw off the coast? . Answer. Yes; it might preserve a vessel fro:n being stranded. 15 . .Question. What amount of repairs of instruments have you had done at .the office of the coast survey? · Answer. J. cannot say. 16. Question. Have yon had other repairs done elsewhere; and if so, by whom, and to what amount? . Answer. I have had repairs done for our; or my, party, the last year, to the amount of forty or fifty dollars, by Mr. Montandon, and by George Blunt, of New York, it having been convenient to have this done on the spot there. 17. Question. How for inland do any of the points extend which you. ha~e used, as fnrnished yon by any of the triangulating parties? Answer. Some of them have been from ten to twelve !'niles inland. They were used for measuring angles from the vessel and from different. points. The points which I occupied for measuring were genirally on the ~oast,· within a quarter of a mile of the beach. l ':t Qtiestion. Please to describe your mode of proceeding in this respect. Allswer. l have three officers shore, at three different stations, with a sextant and a watch each, and a boy with a spyglase1 also to each station. l then am anchored or lying to off shore in my vessel. I ma,ke a signal

·10:

on

Rep.· No. 4·f.
in 'the morning, when I :get under way, to comnience work, Umowing'that the men are at their stations by their hoisting a signal· flag for that pttrpose. I commence by riinning ~p a ~igual ; so scion as .the sf~nal ~t~rts from the· ma:st head, the officers on the shore measure the angle between · the brig and one- of the stations, and tho officers on board the brig; two or thorn, tho.n measure each of them au angle between the stations o·n shore, so as to give in all five nngles; each officer, as well on shore as op board, marking the time, to see that they agree. Meanwhile I am taking my soundings, on the change of which the signals are repeated and new angles taken as before. In these observations I consider the vessel as a. 1ixed point: This system of operation I have been able to carry out far twelve or fourreen miles· seawards, which is the greatest disiaric~ I nave gone. I can soc the laml inland about ten or twelve miles from the shore~ along that part of the coast sounded by me; but if the land were higher ·tbe· distance seen would be ll'lllch greater. . . .· 19. Question. Did you sound the uew chauucl, commonly called. Ged,uey's channel ? Answer. Yes. 20. Qnestion. Woukl you have heen ~ble, with the ordinary facilities for sounding, to ascertain that channel, without the previous triangufation 1 -0f the coast ? Answer. Yos; r could hnve buoyed it out so fur as to make ifeqlt\llY useful to navigation. · 21. Question. Is the k11owledge of that channel of great importance '1to the shippiug of New York? Answer. I think it is. 22. Qnestion. Could not a master of a vessel, when employed off the harbor of New York, with such information as a good chart of the harbor would furnish, run his vessel in with tolerable safety by that channel? Answer. Yes. 29. Qnestion. Do you know any reason why a chart of that chan11el has not beeu published ? . · . . .· · Answer. I do not know any, unless it be that it was not ready. ~r. Hassler has charge of that; I ha vo not. 24. Question. When did you sound out that channel? Answer. Jn 1835. . 25. QuC>stion. Is not the channel as good 'now as when you firtoit sounded it? Answer. Yes; I sounde<l it again Inst year, for the pltrpose of ascertaiu·ing the fact, nnrl found it so. . . . 26. Question. Is tho line of the coast, where examined by you, fixed or ~·ubjcct to chnnge? · . Answer. The bench itself, at the mouth of small inlets, is subject.to change, with severe gales of wind. . . 27. Question. Is the topography of the country within the coast of a1)y' importance to navigators? . . . . Answer. It is not, except for four or five miles, or where there' is'' a'1iy remarkable P.minence or other object inland. ' 28. Question. Is it customary to lay down the topography of the cotiri:. try .. ori the charts of na'Vigators ? Answer. I have never seen it in any charts except of isl8.Rds; Iri charts

as

as

40

Rep._

~ o.

.43·

of .the West India and other islands it is sometimes given; ~ut in those tasew ifis riot necessary for purposes of navigation. 211. How long do you continue sounding, one year with another? Answer. I generally commence in May, and ·leave off early in No~ vember. 96. Qnestion~ Are yon able to keep up with the triangulation? . Answer. Yes; and I have been in advance of the plane-table parties. 31,. ·Question. Arc the plane-table parties necessary to the soundings? Answer: Yes. 92. Question. If you had occasion to sound at a greater distance from the shore than 12 or 14 miles, how would yon proceed? Answer. I should employ small vessels, anchoring them to serve as fixed points;· or it might be done by means of chronometers, starting from some given or known point. · $3. Question. What proportion of the year, and of the day in each year 7 hav.e you been able to make your observations, and carry on the work? Answer. The ariswer to this question is annexed in paper marked A. 34. Question,, Have not yom operations along the coast oither corrected errors in printed charts or added many new antl more complete so1,mdings to those heretofore published in auy chart? Answer. 1 believe they have. , 35. Question. Do you know any reason why the soundings taken by you should not be pul:..Jished? Auswer. I do not.
MoNDAY,

JJ.fay 2, 1842.

' Present: Mr. C~shing, Mr. Aycrigg.

Examination of Lieutenant Ge01'/{e Blalce.
· 1. Question. Are you an onicer of the navy, employed in the coast su1·ve.y:; and if so, in what capacity, and since what time, aud on what part of-the coast? Answ~r. 1'nm a lieutennnt in the navy, and have had charge of a hydrographical party from 1835 to the presetit time; I h:i.ve been in Long Island sound aud Fisher's IslaJiJd sound, and in Delaware river n11d bay. · 2;: Qtiestion. What vessel or vessels, aud what number of officers and men, have you under your command? , : Answer. My force eras varied very much; 1 lia<l last year the schoone1·s-. Gallatin and Nautilus, with nine otficeri; aud forty-one mcu. · 3; Question. Have you been cugaged in the outer or the iurwr waters? Answer. The inner altogether. · 4.' Questior1; What proportion of iustmments have you had i;nade or repaired at the office in Washingto11 ? . Answer. I' have seldom ha<l any sextants or glns,scii repaired there;· but. a large part of the drawing instruments have been ma<lc there, to the value or ciost of say $500" at_ any private establishment, that is, during the whole. time I have been in the survey . . 5. Question·: Have any views of rocks, t;hoals, or other dangerous· places,.. been.taken from yo\u vessels? Answer. No; vie\vs have been taken of ull the light-houses.

I

Rep. No. :43·
.6. Question. Ha:ve you, in the exa.min8.tion of Dela ware bay, discovered any.great errors ~n the. supposed location ·of any shoals? · Answer. 'Yes; very great. . 7. Question. In what cases? Answer. In that of Cross ledge, especially 3 but there is no proper chnrt of Delaware bay; the only 0111:1 extant is a mere rude sketch. The error in the case of Cross ledge was four miles .· I thiuk. · s. Question. Is it not important that these errorlil should immediately be made kn<l\wn. and a correct chart of the bay published? Answer. Yes, undonbtedly. 9 .. Question. Do you know of any reason for withholding from the'public a knowledge of the sotmdiugs .of Delaware bay, as for as verified by you? · · Answer. I know of none. 1o. Question. Can a topographical map, so coustrncted as to give in detail a full aml self-explaining picture of the country, that, with the map before the eye, the military operations may be properly judged and guided in the eabiuet, he obtained, in carrying on the coast survey, without adding greatly to the expense, and materially delaying the execution of the work? .Au.t1wer. No, it caunot.
1'foNDAY 1 ~fay

30, 1842.

Present : Mr. Mallory, l\.fr, Aycrigg.
I

Jfr. W. J. Stone's e:camination.
l. Question. l\ln p marked exhibit C being shown, witness is asked 'if he recollects the map. Answer. Yes. 2. Question. Who engmved the map? Answer. I did. . 3. Question. Is that an exact copy of tho original sent to you from theHouse of Representatives? .Answer. It is. / 4. Question. How long did it take yon to engrave and prjnt this map? Answer. In from seven to ten <lays it was fully executed and delivered· to the Honse. ' 5. Question. With what person connected with the coast survey did you. communicate at tho time you engraved this map ? Answer. Mr. Hassler. I called on him, and had a conversation on the subject. H. Questioh. Exhibit ll being shown and examined, he is asked if that iu an impressiou from tho same plate. Answer. Yes. 7. Qut>stion. Will you please to examine exhibit B, au<l seo if tllcre is auy ditforcnce between this and exhibit C? Answer. The only <lifforence that I can perceive is, that another scale ha9 been put in the pince of the one engraved by myself, wbich was copied from. the original. 8. Question. In what manner was that Rlteratiou made?

Bi·p. No.
p~n.

4~.

· . Answer. By cutting out the engraved scnle and· inserting one 'with the·
The engraved scAle on exhibitC is 3 inches to the mile; while the scale inserted with the pen is nhlf th, being, in fact, 6 inches to the mile, · instead of 3. ·· !;J ·. Question. l-fave you the original extract sent to yon from the office of the ·coast survey ? Answer. I have. .. 10. Question. Are there engravers in the United States competent IQ -execute, faithfully and correctly, any work like that required, for the ·coast survey? Answer. Yes; as well as it can be done in any part of the world. J l. Question. What is considered a liberal salary for a good workman ? Answer. About ·Sl,200 per annum. 12. Question. Is there any difficulty in getting good copper in the United States for eugra.vin'I' purposes? · A11swer. No difficulty whatever. 19. Question. How long will it take to engrave the rriap of the harbor -0f New York, and ~hat will it cost? Answer. I cannot answer without examining the chart. The chairman then gave Mr. Stone a note to Mr. Hassler, of the following tenor, as near as remembered, viz: requesting Mr. Hassler to permit Mr. Stone to examine the manuscript chart of the harbor of New York. The committee then adjourned. TauasDAY,
June~, 1S42.

Present: Mr. Mallory, Mr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.

William J. Stone in examination .
.1. Question. What is your business and residence?

Answer. I reside in ·wa!ihington, aud I am an engraver. 2. QLtestion. How long havti ybu followed th11t business hete ? Answer. From twenty-three to twenty-four years. 3. Question. Have you been accustomed to eugrave maps and· charts? ·Answer. Y~; tbat has been my chief, and is, at present, niy ·only busii:>ess;I having abandoned other branches of engraving, to devote myself to that. 4. ·Question. Is there any <liffi.cnlty in procuring competent map engravers in the United States? . Answer. None. ·5. Q11estio11. D0 you know of any special superiority of German en~ .gravers·over those of th'3 United States? Answer. No; I consider the American workmen better, cleaner, and more rapid. . 6. Qnestion. Please to fook at the map hereto annexed, and marked A. William J. Stone, and state whether it is the original map sent from the Hollse to you, and from which you engraved the map of Newark bay, as mentioned in the first part of your testimony. · Answer. It is. 7. Question. What is the scale on that manuscript map?

Rep.

No.-.43~

48

Answer. Of three inc11es to the mile, as on the map J engraved. . s. Question. Annexed is a map ·of Cape Cod, (market! B, Williani .J~ 'Stone:) did you engrave that? Answer. Yes. 9. Question. How long does it take, in your establishment, to eugrave such a map ?· Answer. About two months. 10. Question. Wltat are the dimensions of that map? Answer; Thirty inches by thirty-six inches, 11. Question. When were you summon'ed by the committee to. attend and be examined ? '' . Answer. I received Mr~ Mallory's lNter on Monday, the 30th May, and attended that morning. 12. Question. Was that the first intimation you received on the subject? Answer. Yes. 13. Question. Have you had previously any conversation with any member of the committee on the subject pf the examination? Answer. Never, of any kind whatever. 14. Question. Had you· any knowledge of the pupose for which you were summoned ? Answer. No. 15. Question. Did you, as requested by the committee, call on Mr. Hassler, al!d present the note of the chllirman ? Answer. I did. 16. Question. What occnrrod ? Answer. The interview was so disagreeal:jle, that I would i·ather not ~escribe it, n!iless it be insisted on by the committee. The chairman therofore propounded to tho committee the following question : Shall Mr. Stoue Lo required to state what o<:cnrred in his interview with Mr. Hassler? and it was determined in the affirmative-Mr. Mallory, Mr. Aycrigg, and Mr. Cushing, present, and voting. . · The question being again propounded to Mr. Stone, he answered as follows: I went to Mr. Hassler's oftlce, and knoc.kod at the door. A sel'V!lnt showed me into his room, nud asked me to sit down, and in a minute two Mr. Hassler came in. T then handed him Mr. Mallorv's letter. Mr. H. read. it, and immediately fell into a violent rag"', and swore ~hat I should , not see tho map, neither should the committf!e have it. After much rudeness and violent language, both towards the committee and me, Mr. Farley· came in, aud Mr. H. handed him the letter. After some further conversat.ion, Lieutenant Pago came in, and Mr. H. showed him the letter, and further conversation ensued. At length Mr. H. permitted me to examine the map, which I did ; and on my dopartllre, ho handed me a letter for the -chairman of the committee, which I delivered to Mr. Aycrigg. This letter is annexed, nud marked· C, F. Mallory. · 17. Question. How long would it take to engrave such a map, and what would it cost ? ' An&wer. It would.require about a year, I think. There a1·e eight plates, each of 22~ by 32~ inches, making 5,912 superficial inches, which, at 3 eents per inch, would be $177 36, for the copper; the f3ng1·11ving, the sum ·Of,$4,132. This estimate is given for tho execution of the work in·the best· .and mo.st accurate manner, understanding that the parallels of latitude and .

or

ltep. No . .43.
longitude;with thei~ subdivisions, are marked in 'by an officer ofthe sur~ey, and the engraving is to exactly correspond with the same, which must ensure an accurate chart. I have made a liberal estimat~, to enable the engraver to enter minutely into detail, and to do justice to himself and to. the Government.

W ASHIN'GToN C1TY, JJfarc/i 23, 184~. Snt : Among the questions put to me in the committee's meeting, there
was one, at least, which appeared much insisted upon, and by circumstances was rather discussed than answered. It seemed to put in doubt the propriety of the journals, aud other works of the coast survey; to remain in the coast survey office, and rr.questing them to be delivered to the Treasury Department for safoty. I will here supply more distinct answers. ,. I. This office here is one of the otlices of the Trens1\ry Department, exacliy as much as any of the rooms in the Treas\try building itself. 2.· The extension of the Treasury Departmeut works has obliged to have a number of other offices out of the 'yet unfinished Treasury building proper, so is this office. . · ' 3. The foreign standards of weights and measures have jnst now been transported from the Treasury building to this office, for their more propel· and more appropriated safe keeping. 4. Thero are three houses, adjoining each other, rented by the Department, two at the expense o( the coast survey, arid one at the 'expense of the weight ai1cl measure works and the foundry establishment, besides itS' access to the street. 5. 1'he total of the buildings adapted themselves so peculiarly to the use of both works, that no building in the city could, in any wny,·equal the conveniences they afford, by their present distribution. · 6. Various arrangements have been made, at public expense, as well ns at the expeni;e of tho owner, to adapt them the better; one story was elev11ted7 to procure drawing rooms superior to any I know of; for better security, the roofs have been slated; and, in general, every arrangement made for convenience and security. _ 7. In every one of the three buildings, which connect all through with· one.another, two persons at least sleep; these arc assistauts, clerk, workmen, and I myself, so that the buildings are well watched all night. 8. 'I'he maps and many other valuable objects, arc pln~cd so that even irt the extremJ case of fire, they would be saved with the greatest case. 9. The whole of tho coast survey work must, in nll cases, nnd at all thqes> he of.the easiest access, nay, present, during the whole time that the work is going ou, still more so tJ1a11 in any other office such may be reqnired. ' 10. In requiring place in the Treasmy buildi11g only to deposite the foreigil standards, which had been expunged from the State Department to the. Patent Office, where they were exposed to <lamuge, I could not get n: well appropriated place for want of room. , 1 11. The lower vaults of the Treasury builcling, where I got a pla:ce to· deposite the weight and measure standards, packed up and not yet sent off; could not bat with difficnlty be' got, and such an one would not do,

Rep. No. :43.
~ecause of their not" being sufficiently dry aud aired for paper, the maps especially. woulp be utterly destroyed . 12. To d~place the works from the office would be laying great inipedi~ ment in the w.ay of the work, aud expose the parts deposited to dilap1'.dation and abwe. · . 13. Every time that a certain syst~matically full part of the work, between two base lines, nnd two astronomical stations, will be executed, a fnll report will be made, und it is hoped published by Co11gress, which will rest thilt part forever, .and then the documents of that parl may be placed into some specially selected place of deposite, as original record, but until thnt time 4hey mu.yt remain in tho office in which they originate. · 14. It \vould be the most effective mode of clearing up any subject whatsoever, that may be desired, and come in .question, if the committee would be so kind to .come over to the office, which is so near tho Capitol, a,nd visit all the parts of the work, as they are in a9tivity, and constantly in evidence for every visiter. I·'. R. HASSLER. Hon. F. MALLORY, Chairman oj' lite Se/eel Commillee · of Investigation of ll1e <.'oasf Suri,ey.

W ASIIINOTON Cnv, JJ1arch 30, 1842. I must adcl ·a more cletuilc<l answer to that question which asked ow " How I wonld proceed in the Sonthern coast; where marshes, woocls, &c., presented peculiar impedimllnts ?" I answered to it: ''By mixed astronom·

ical and geodctical observations." This question was followed by that: ·· Is that 1101 more or Jess the case with all the coast survey?" This question showed that tho nature of the scientific principles to be applicdaud indicated by qiy anl'!WCl'\vere unknown. I must thereforel!xplai.n: what is 1ca.llo<l, in mathem~icnl practice, .ilUXED a8tronomical and geodotical observations, is, when both theso clements concuf in the same fodividttal delerminalion; this is tho case in tho application o( a problem of practical mathematics, which I have applied in Switzerland and in .this eountry, on Weasel motmlain, (to the full knowledge of my assistants,) to obtain the junctions of my works of 1817 with those of 1833, in the' beginning, when I had not yet a new base lino nor sufficient angles; it- was equally successful in both cas£.>s. · It consists in "one goedetic line being given in position nnd length, tho· latitude of either point being known, tho latitude o.nd the angle, the line subtends from n. third poiut, being observed, tog-ether with the azimuth of either end point, to determine the pince of observation." Froru such a. result new connexions are then opened further ouwnrds; othor similnr problems mny be maclo. Th~s is what I was beginning to express 'Yhen I wus 'stopped, under the denomit~ntion of entering into argnmeuts, which Mr. Cushing refused to hear. That I should expose it from its elementary principle~, is whnt I nm onro the committoo cannot intend, bccnnse it is n problem which, joining h()th branches of scieuce, would require lo11g deductions o(principlcs, almost nn olomcutnry work, for persons uot ncc;innintcd with the science.

Rep.
lntri~:pgulation,

Wo~ .. 48.

the two kip<ls of observations, astronomical and geodet.;

ical, are disconnected; each operation is separate, and they. are only compared to draw conclusions upon one another, for a new, different result, required to place the survey in general to its proper pla<:e upon earth; therefore the astronomical parts are only made at a few propetly selected places, and with general view.'l for the work, not for details, like in the ot~r ca~e, as I have stated in my apswer to question 5, article 3d, of my report of December 2, 1841.

F. R. HASSLER.
Upon Ilie
que~tion

of limitation of the works/or lite survey of the coast.

W ASlllNGTON, .!Jprif, 1842. lst. The limitation to any determined distance from the coast would require that the mountains, which arc indispensably necessary for the station points of the survey, be within that dislance. 2d. This is well known not to be the fact, therefore also the limitation not·adapted to the nature of the country, thence this limi~ation would become impossible to be observed, if even decreed. 3d. If even smaller elevations were found within these limits, which it might be said fit to substitnte fostead of the greater ones, it would be improper to use them otherwise thau so as they arc us;cd uow, namely, for secondary triangles, and the plane-table opcralions. 4th. These smaller elevations from theil' too great proximity would occasion triangles· by far too small to give the accuracy requiretl for the connexions of the work. , 5th. Tt1e multiplication of the triangles would evidl'ntly also require a much greater length of time to execute them, because evtlry one ol them would require as much . time ·and trouble as one of the large triangles, which might cover six or twelve of the sn111ll ones. · 6th. With this increasi11g of the operations the nec;essity of cutting througl1 woods, &c., increase actually in still greater propor1io11 as the triangles themselves, and these cuttings are one of the great diiiicultieti of tho work. 7-th. Such smaller triangles are even much 1uorc tedious to make properly thall'-the large ones, thereforn they consume each more time, and of uecesiiity r13tard the work, by limiting the greater strides which the freedon1 of work at present admits. 8th. Upon the limitation of the work only in the topographical part,. the samo reasoniug applies as to. the more extensive operations; the inland bays, rivers, creeks, &c., ,which ure navigable, are all so winding and very c;>ften hid in hardly approachable marshm1, tltat to follow them, which often wou.ld be fully impossible, would nect:simrily take np much, more .time than to survey them by the general survey of the whole topography of the. neighborhood. 9th. How far therefore this topography shall, can, or must, go, it is as impossible as improper to determine beforehand; without the special ref.. erence to any given locality nothing can be said about it in ge'nero.l terms · . 10th. 'l'his reference to a11y give11 locality can 011ly be decided by tha oper~tor upon the spot, and the special superiutc11de11t of tho work, qs has always·been done hitherto. . .. l lt~\. The topography has hitherto never yet been carried further llmn
1

~ep.
the,.p~.ope;

.:No., A3~
co~1trary,

~eveiil .ins~ances, an extensio11 of the. wor,k llas been· specio..lly ~esir~.

11im,andthe principles of the work require; on the

in

12th. A11y idcia of limitation. arid d.istinction between the ditferent.·pr,.rts of the worJts would never ba underst.ood by the uninformed people .witb · whoni the operators in the wo.rk must cqme in dailr contact. · . 13th. Thence w,oull,I. resnlt, that any owner o land, upon ·whiqh an operator in ·the survey would have to go, could explaiu this li01itatio.n to his fancy or interest, and attack him, drag him to jail, and otl!erwise expose him t.o insult and ill-treatment, at his own optiou, as has been toe> oflen the case· already. · . 14th. That.even this accessory incident cnuses-. much loss of time, and forms an actnal retardation of the work, is ~elf-evident. . 15th. The topographical part appears. by experience to be that least objected to by the inhabitants, to judge fl'.Olll the manner in which the operators have been received, in comparison with the difficulties that have .been laid in the way of the other parts of the work. 10th. Jn genernl, a limita~ion to 'three miles fro'm the coast, as has been talked of, is a virtual abolition of the work itself, as well from the side of, the natural as the moral ditliculties it would suscitat.e, and the impossibility of giving to the work the required accuracy, 1~or would any other limitation be less injurious:

F. R. IIASSLE,R.
-,

W ASIIJNG'l'ON 1 :May 301 1842.

Sm: The unprovoked insult o.ffercd to me, by sending the engraver Stone to me to inspect the work of the coast survey in the map of New Yo~rk, is too mttch, us well for the powers of tlrn committee, as for the feelings of an honest man. You know that the maps of the C\last survey cauuot be engrav.ed but in the office un,der my owu iuspectiou. You k11ow 1hat the map in question is already cut up iu pintos, two of which arc nuder tho engraver's liands, nearly finished; two mhersjust beginning; for two more the drawing is nearly finishPd; and two more are h:ilf finished drawings. You know thut the engra \'Cl' Sto1w is in 110 way qualified to do such WQrkt nor that 1. could he made responsible for auy of his doingi;. . · Hence you ca.11r1ot ot!Jcr.wise but conclude tliut the measure you' begin is destrncth'o to tho work, tlioreforo to the execuHou and expeuses hither· to incnrred, therefore directly opposite to .the aim profossod by the -com· mittQe to favor the coast survey work. · No mau cnu expebt tliut I, who am auswernble for tho work, could be ~ou;1peHe<i to. give the fiual execntiou in the hunds of a man in whom I .hav,e not.the slightest reason to have any confideuco wh:itcv~r. I co1~sider the sending of Stoue to in.~pect my work, as lie soicl firtl 1 (J,I mi, 1.mmr.riled insult, and I um certain that every member of the com.miltQe, placed in my lliituation, would conside1· it so. . With 'p11st respects ,and good wishes, your obedient servnnt. . !<'. n. HA""SSLER.

Hou.

FRANcts MALLORY,

·

Cltairmfmof //1e Committee on tlte Cousl Sm·vt'y.

48

Rep .. No.· 43.

W_umNGToN CrTf, Junes, 1842. Sm : Mr~ Mallory ,having communicated to me' the questions address~d to me in the committee, with my hasty a11swe.rEZ at the time, according to the agreement, in order that I might add to my answers the explanations and extensions which they require, l have made the proper additions and remal'ks, and added to them some papers, (copies,) which I had given in to the 'committee at some times· intermediate, with nearer particulars in sonle instance!!. · , · : Mr. Mallory, chiirman of the committee, being now absent for a fortnight, a1 he said, I take tho liberty herewith to address .to you the papers resulting from these additions, for the use of the committee, most likely best to circulate among the members, to cause as little delay as l can in the labors of the committee, to a final· close, which would be desirable, to en-· able me to go to the field work time enough for my _plans or projects of this season. I stlppose Mr. Stone will have made his report upon his examination of. the 'manuscript map of New York, for which he has been sent to me in the name of the committee . .Mr. Mallory has also informed me that I should not leave here, because the eommittee would call me up in 1~xaminntion upon the works of the weights and measures. I, therefore, am now waiting, and like always in readiness to answer also upon this part of my works. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect and esteem, sir, your obe<lient servant,

F. R. HASSLER.
Hon. lsA,\C E. HoLMEs,

Member of tl1e Committee upon the Coast Survey .

·ll.dditions to the answers of F. R, lla.,sler-to !lie questions of the Select Committee/or the Coast Survry, lrfuy, 1842.
To 1 acld: lly my contract with the Government, I am bound to deliver nothing of the work but to the Govc~nmeur or its order, that is,-the Treasury Department, with whom my co111rar.t i11 made. It is therefore through that medium that all publications, and whatever may have reference to .them are to be ordered, that are to be executed by me in this respect. To 2 add: Hut they mnst, for that pmpose, nt the time of their application for publication or otherwise, be retl11ccd to the scale which their nppli-cation will require; like that is always the case, no map. being published so as it is surveyed. To 3 add: It is evident in principle that the map of harbors must as well surveyed as published upon a much larger scale than those of a m~re running coast. To 4 add: It is necessary on the part of the Govr.rnment to take proper measures to give, with the publication, g11ura11ty to the publiP., for the allthenticity of all thnt is published. (See ansWPl' to question 5 in my report of Decemher, 1841.) To 5 add: But the publication of the Delaware is of much more pressing importance.

~ep ·.

N:o ..

43;

49

To 6 adcl: But this cannot be done until a full system of main triangu. lation between two. base lines is completed. · , To 7. Becaue.e this was uot a requisite in the case; the points nsed were all only detail points. What"may be proper to .be quoted of mathematical data, belongs to the general account of the work. To 8 add : My papers upon various subjects relating to the survey of the coast of the Uuited States, in the philosophical transactions of Philadelphia, 2d volume, new series, 1825, which are in duplo in the Library of Congress, give full account of these parts; what rriay become necessary to add after the prese11t work, has to await its proper time. (Remark:) The word measuraticin is, iu all these articles, used entirely' against its sense iq. the science. To 9 add: Nor is this proper to be done but at nn appopriated distance from the first base line, and astronomical station of some amount proportionate to the .work Which is to be grounded upon it. . To IO, 11, 12, 13,udd: These.stations werenotexclusivelyastronom\cal stations; the astronomical observations were intended more for preliminary <leterminatio11s at the beginning, to gui<lc the work, and to take adyantuge of the presence of tlie assistants, who were all present, to intro· duce them uucl to exercise them in this kind of obserrntions. Tho main uim of these slat ions was the determinntioll of main triangultition points. To 12 add: There also a solar eclipse was observed. To 14 a<l<l: Upon the station of Weasel mountain all tho lllN\llS for astronomical dcter111inatio11s and azimuths, wcro nuitcd, and a rr.gular sys. tem of these observatious executed, with its nppropriated combinations, upon peculiar methods, w.hich I made and prescribed, un<l which succeeded to satisfactio11. The isolated observations of tho preceding stations were of course reduced to this by way of comparison. To 15 add: 'l'hoso of 1817 were measured only preliminarily with the chain; still the vcrificaliou proved very satisfactory, ns the triangle results and tho measmemc11t clifforc<l less than 8 inches in abont five miles. The. base line of 1834 was measured with tho microscopic npparntus, and ex~ actly so as described in the pu pers of the philosophical trnusactions of 18.i!5, quoted above. · To 16 aud: From a point southeast of the ligat.house, towards the sea, upon the sn11cl along the sea eastwards, tho points are marked by squarehe wn red saudstoue, of near four foet .length, fixed solid in tho ground. (See my 3d r.eport, May 8, 1835.) . · 'l'o 17 add: The end points of these arc marked by hollow cones of stone ware. · . To 18 add: It was, of comso, proper to take advantage of this element 0·11 hand, to star! the work llloro rapidly in 1833, Ly using dote1·minations. gronnded upo11 these bases, so much the ruthor as tht>y had proved e:tact; tj10 use made of them iu lS 17 appears in. the schodula of the triangulatiou which I banded iu to the Troasmy Department in HHS. · To 19 add: Tho remark to G applies he1-e most forcibly, and upon a huger ~e<ale ;. ~,uc;!1 nn account is t.o be gi von only wheu l wo bases arc joined. I clid it on n small scale in ISIS, because I had, by way of procnution, measured two bases ueu.r each other, (sec the reasons in my printed papers nbove tt\lOt~d.) Now, in the renewed work, this must be dn11e ouly when another Htl'ge ~asc line is measured, by the samn meaus uud methods as that on Fire }$land beach bus been, and at a distance from that; iu 1uoper proportion
4

50

·Rep. No. 43~

with the extent to which tlie snrvcy shall reach. There is a lupsus calami in the statement of my ·answer. To 20, 21, and 22 : For concealing. But it would be of no t1se whatsoever to any body except copyists, who would, by abusing the public property in the work, degrade it. It wonld be, therefore, an expense not only useless, but very detrimental. It will, besides, all appear in the account refotred to in the addition to 19; in fact it would be highly improper to do it, before the publicaHon of the niore extensive system, of which it shall form ·a part in pi·oper time. There is however no conceal merit about it~ To 23 add: It is the .duty of the Government to let no parcelling out be possible, under penalty of sE"eing the Government's own work ultimately discredited; such a desire cannot be fairly entertained. To 24 add: This quality of being official is absolutely required to give ·confidence to the public, therefore security to the navigation, (see question 5, in my report of December last.) · To 25 add : ·when the account of the rnodes, and of the means to their execution will be joined to them, which can be done only afler a certain full system between two main hases, can be presented to the public. To 26 add : Unless flagrSJ.nt falsification, which men of science would discover immediately in the account rendered of the work, bnt in the map alone there lie!!, no such verification, therefore also they are not admitted as any proof of the work ; notwithstanding that in com moll" habit, in the offices here, this is not regarded, nor any account of the mode of operating is asked. To 27 add : Just therefore the hasty publication of an unfinished work has no 'taluc. To 28 add·: Like stated upon question 7, which is in foct the same. To 29 add: Where I expect to find a proper locality to measure one, probably upon what is called Eastern shore. To 30 add: Unless circt1mstances should decide me to acceleratP. still" more,, on the ground of finding better locality, therefore larger triangles, -¥hich would be more advantageous to join northerly from there the poi11ts, 110\V reached from the north. To 31 and ~2 add: The secondary, plane· table, and naval partias, are now (25th May) all out; how long I :,:;hall be detained by the circumstances, I carinot know, as it does not depend of me. To $3 add : That is no more than is fully compensated by the advantages which it gives iu. the office part of the work, and the keeping in order of the instruments of the coast survey, which is of daily occurrence, in· which my task is very much eased by it. To 34 add: Withont the constaflt attendance to my works, at any houn1 that can be used for them, my task would be positi vcly inexecutable; this is'evide.ntly thu state of the establishment, and tho works produced.To 35 add : That extra works ·and varieties occur in a II works, is too well known to expect that every day shall be equal to every other day; my easiest part is the field \\'ork. . To 36 add: The field work is more agreeable, in the favorable ~eason, than the office work; they arc al ways auxious to go out as soon as they can. To 37 and 38 ndd : These are sufficiently explained as for tho fact, bt.Jt lt must be added hero, that the speaking disreputably and irrimically 11gainst the coast survey work in Congress, occasions. ignorant men in the

Rep. No.

4~.

51

~ountry, who read these 'things, to layimpediments in the way of the. W·ork~

and to ill-treat us, which is a great loss to the work, and its economy. . 'l'o 39 : It is well known that the accidental circumstance of the exhaustion of the old appropriation, nnd the delay of the new one, ha"e kept nil· back to the end of May, in 1842, and that I l'emain oven after that. I advance<l money to assistants to enable them to. go out, only. $950; but if the attacks had not been made upon me, as well known, I would have prevented all stoppage, as I did three times in tho beginning of the work, but under existing circumstances it was not proper for me to advance my credit as I did in those cases, and also before in London. · To 40, 41, and 42, add: The main triangulation de,ermining large distances with greater accuracy than the secondary triangulation, it serves as clement a11d groundwork for the latter, which, in consequence of the accuTacy of these clements, can proceed outside of the limits of the main triangulation fo~ a c1Jr1.11in distance,. without losing sensibly in accuracy.· But this. has its determined limits; the main triangulation hns always kept near enough to the other parts of the work, not to expose it to any loss of accu-; Tacy, detrimental to the use made of the secondary triangulation. To 4:i add: This 11amely means that, in this pince and_time, both trian-' gulat ions mnst come up together, and then the field of operation is open.. ill all di rnctio11s. To 44, 45, 46, 47, 4S, and 49: I ·should desire very much that, by tha time the work is i11 that state, more extensive moans might present themselves, appropriated to the exigency of the case that may theu be, but to -say any thing about it, would be of no avail, and premature. To 50 and 51 add: It mnit ho remarked upon these articles that, the putting mu in jail. nt Mount Holly by a warrant of .Tndge Dayton, of 'J'rentori, given npon the oath of a clergyman of the name of Brown, who swore his damage wns over $200, because I had refused to poy, nt first pr<'se11tf1tion, instantly, n bill presented to me by a, i::o called, Jmlge Hay~· wood. for $2.'i damages, because I found it overrated nnd asked nn impartial estimatr, to legitimate me to direct tho payment to he made, (the ac· · count i11g otficer being ab ·ent ;) that such a circmnstunce, I s:iy, I considered as nr.it her decent nor ngreeahle ; such acts go to the direct overthrow of ttu.\ work, the r.ourt concern followinix; it cost both i-ides 11i;;ole11s~ bnt I had ·to t::taud the disagreo1w:mt, a11tl the Treasury Doparttrll!llt had to defend the snit, wldch awnrded the reverend Mr. Brown with dilficulry, ns a liighost exlrPme, the $25 c1ainwd, most of the jury voting first for $10, $15, or $20, instead of tho hundredth which ho had sworn to. It wus necessary to stand tl1is legal transaction iu self-defence-the documents npou it can be. exllihited. . · . · At Yards the so.mo impudence is now repeated, damages asked of moro thn11 <lonblo tho value, u11d impndcut letters written upon it, &c. Such thi11g:i .1111t only cost money, bttt have a tendency to give npprohe11sicrn~ upon the 11afety of our sta~ion points, und signals, to the great an11ovance of tho work. ;l'o 52 add: \Ve have been 0 1hliged to make a special agreement witl1 the ow nor of tho land of the station next after Yard, tc Rvoid difficnlties if possi hie, by n contract for the nse of the lnnd for three years. To 53, 54: I have hnhitnolly only ono of tho pers·1Us ongaged in tha w11rk, ar lower wugee than assistant, to write the rmgles, not to tnke au· as. . .sistant, at higher wages, away from a more important work; in this poc11-

lia,r instance at Yards, a friend was a great part of the time with me, whoto !&-ssisc :me,-as I was ·sick; at1d.' in· signalizirtg; ,lo: ascertain visi·" , · biliiy .8,{:distazu stiltions,.:beiog neqnainw4- with the country.· . ::l'0i:5:.s1 56:: · lt·is.1very·'.naturnl that in this, like in~every,other. :subject· of ~.en~e;,'or· knowledge; the acquirements and .improvemet}ts are gradual.;. tl:tey devl!lopc; themsel·ves as the :occasicm fqrthem is giv.en, and. with-a consi@l'qbJe/ and proportional consummation· of time;· ... So. much· so~ that e·ven in·Europe:'this·brauch.of, science is not BO muoh·spread,·ns it is p,retended,. tp. b~ already in this conn try, where it. has nev:er yet been emp!.oyetl.o.t all; :fi1l' the.detached small surveys, made so abundantlyt-do not come at alt in comparison, nor.under the principles of seieuce, whicQ is absolutely reqnfred for :Su<;h an el':tenshre work ns the caast. surv.ey, especially in the form and ln'~he·iocality~ of the earth .in which it lies .. .. rT01:57 ~ These are 1lot the exact words of my·auswer; I ans\vered, w'ith measured reflect ion~'' SCiencc is.- no sec1·et, but it requires a g.reat deal. of . BJudyJd acquire it. . . :<r.o 58 : 'l'he accusation of secret, started against me, is most unfounded,. 8$.-my, a.s.sistants,will certainly /aver. _ To 59, 60j·61 : To explain nearer these three answers, would requirEs a. the.ot.otical ·and practical treatise upou .the.subject~ which would be too long, ®.dinot: a,ppropri11ted here, ' To 62: It would be presumptuous in any man, to name a cerrain.dolermined_.time.; ·none would ·undertake· it unless he had the ~ccessory i1/,tention u>'mislead. ·(See my answer to questio~1 i.s.,. of thfl resolution of the last; Gougress session.) .Steady assiduity, and well-guided exertions, will bring it forward as fast· as ·the ~1ature of the work, a:nd' the-localities of the country will admit, ahd more cat) 11ei1he1' be expected, 'lior obtained, .by uo means 'whatsoeve1:; mathematical priuciples and nature; cannot be bargained with · .. To 63 {.It is. evident, that the· length is no determining element of the. work, because the nature of tho coast, and its indentures, ~tc.,, form the detel'.mining element, as stated repeatedly. . . ·To 64.: This would uvidently have to he measured by ·the pi;inciples stated: in the preceding answer, aml thqrofore can afford but o. very vague. settle bf ~oniparison,; 'Vhat I hnve said upon that in my report of last Deeel11her, gives all the data, that can be given to a· man ktiowing both,1th6' scictice tiud the countl"y. · 'I'o 65: This is an in<lividnal experience.of mine, no doubt the determi .. natiou~. cba1·ts, maps, &c., will vary among one another. , To 66,'(i~ :. Need no addition. . · . , To 61'31 69 1 i<>,,71, 72, 73, 74: The8c ·questions go evidently' info details of the practicnl .· pplications of tho 11Jathematical principles, to certain localities, wlticli ca11 be discussed 011ly wi1b the map of these lqcalities be.fore·
~J:.~ pable

i&-callocl,.in rnathemancal practice 1:MIX.ED nstronomical

tl1c ewe; , To. 71 : I <lr.diue no anrnver npon any question. . 'I'o 75: I mrn;1 adJ a more de111ile<l answer to.that question which askeu me: "How 1 would p1oceed iu the Soulhe.rn,coast, where m:nsh13s 1 w.ooc1s,. &c., presenrnd pe<'uliar impediments?" I answcrt~<l to .it . '.'.hymixedastro· 11oi1iical and geodctic1d observations.", 'fhis question w:as fol!ow,ed by that· '·'fa that uot morn, or less, the case with al I· the coast s1irvey ?" This q,ue~·" 1 tion showed, that 1hn natnre of the scientific principles.tp y~ nppl\e4,,11ud jmliclltt'd 1hy my u11sw.m1:were i~nknown. I mn'st therefore e:rplqi'!~· what
u~d

geodet10al ob-·

Rep. No. 43.
I

53.
'

··servations, it is, when both these eloments concur in the same individual determination; this is the case in lhe application of a problem of practical ·mathematics, which I have applied in Switzerland, and in this conntry, on Weasel mountain, (to the full knowledge of my assistants,) to obtain preliminarily the junction of my works, of 1~17, with those of 1233, in the beginning, when I had not yet a new base liue, nor sufficient angles; it ·was equally stwcessful in both cases. It consists in "one geodetic line being given iu position and length, the latitude of either point being known, the latitnde, and the angle which the . iipe subtend,s from u third point, being observed, together with the azimuth of eitlu~r cud point, to determine the pince of observation." From such a resnlt iiew connexions nre then opened further onwards. This wµs what I was beginning to express, when I was stopped, nndel· the de~omination of entering into nrguments, which Mr. Cushing refused -to hear: That { should expose .it from its· elementary principles is, what I am sure, the committee cam~ot intend, because it is n problem which, joining . both branches of scieuce, would require long deductions of principles, almost ar; elementary work, for persons not acquainted with the science and its pructicul application. In the triangnlntion the two kinds of observations, astronomical and goo.detical, are disconnected, each operation is separate, and the~ are onlycompared to draw .conclusions upon one another, for n new, ditferC1nt result, required to place the survey i11 general in 'its' proper place upon earth; there.fore the astronomical parts are only made nt a few properly solt!cted . places, and with· general views for the work, not for-dlltails, like in the other case, so as I huve stated in m.y answer to question 5, article 3, of my report of Decemb·er 2d, 1841. ' To 76 : The second Lase forms as much an indispensable part of a snrvey of a large extent ns the first baso. This is a principle i11 the science welt .known by all accounts of large surveys. To 77: (I had added) and corrected. This could, however, not be the -case for any great a-mount, in a well-condneted work, and a well-comlitioned .series of large triangles. . There arc other data, and results to be obtained, and considered, in snch a completecl system of a work, which arc well known to be deduced from it hy tile science, bnt \\rhich to trcut here would require an elemo11ta.ry, theoretical, and practical dednction, entirely ont of placH. To 7S, 79, so, 81, and 82: These questions could be discussed long, with.-0ut leading to any actnal practical eftoct, They are treall.'d under the ge11<lrul denomination of the question of limitations asked to bo introducE1J it1 :the work, in tho paper already handed in, and hero repeated, viz:

lJpon lite 1uestion of limitation of tile worlcs for t/ie surue.y rif 11,e couat.
1. The limitation to any determined diRtance from the coa~t would reqnire that the mountains, which aro indispensably necessary for 1the statio11 points of the survey, be within that limited distance. 2. This is well known not to bo the fa.ct; therefore, also, the limitation ·not adapted to the nature of the country; thence this limitation would be-come impossible to be observed, if even decreed. 3. If eveu smaller elevations were found within these limits, which, it

54

.Rep. No. 4;3.

might J:>e said, fit l.o substitute instead of the greater ones, it would be im·,proper to· use them otherwise th11n so as they are used ·now, namely : for ·aecondary tria:ngl~s and the plane-·table operations. 4. These smaller elevations, from their too graat proximity to eitch other, . would occasion triangles by far too small to give the accuracy required for the connexion of the work. 5. The multiplication of the triangles would evidently aJso require a much greater length of time to execute them, because every one of them \vould require as mnch time and trouble as one of the large triangles, which might cover six or twelve of these small ones. 6. With this increasing of the operations, the necessity of cutting through woods, &c., increases actually in still gteater proportion tha11 tho triangles themselves, and the~e, cut.tings are ona of the great difiiculties of the work. 7. Such smaller triangles arc even much m·ore tedious to make properly :than the lurge ones; therefore, they consume each more time, nnd, of necessity, retard the work, by limiting the greater strides which th.e freedom of the work at present admits. The improper iAcrease of the. expenses is setf-ev ident. 9 . ~. Upori the limitation of the work only in the lopograpltical part the .same reasoning appJies as to the more extensive operarions. The inland bays, river:i, creeks, &c., which are navigable, arc all so winding, and very -often hid in hardly approa~hablc marshes, that to follow thC'm, which often would be.fully impossible, would necessarily take np much more time than -to survey them by the general survey of the whole topography of the neighborhood. , · 9. How far, therefore, this topography shall, can, or mnst go, it is as im. possible aR improper to determine beforehand, without the special reference to any given locality, nothing cnn be said about it in general terms. 10. This reference to any given locality can only be decided by the operator upon the spot and the special superinteudent of the work,as has always. bl!en done hitherto. 11. The topography hns hitherto never yet been carried further than the proper aim, and the principles of the wark require ; on the contrary, in several instauces, an extension of the work has been specially desired. 12. Any idea of limitation an<l distinction between the different parts of the works would never be understoqd by the uninformed people with whom the operators in the work mnst come in daily contact in the field works. 13,, Thence would result that any owner of land upon which an operator in the survey wonld have to go could explain this limitation to his fancy or interest, and attack him, cirag him to jail, and otherwise expose him .to jnsult and ill treatmeut, at his own option, as has been too often the case already. · 14. That even this accessorv incident causes much loss of time, and form~ an actual retardation of t'he work, is self-evident, as well as its expen11iveness. 1.5. The topographical part app1mrs, by experience, to be that least objected to ,by the inhabitants, to judge from the man nor in which the operators have been received, in comparison with the difficulties that have been laid in the way of the other parts of the work. 16. ·In general, a limitation to three miles from the coast, as-has been talked of., is a virtnal abolition of the work itself, as well from the side of the natural as the mo ml dUficulties it would suscitate, and the impossibility

ll.~P· .!jo. 4,3;
of giving t9 the work the required acc:uracy; nor would any·other limitation be leii~ injurious. · . .. 17. The shore line of n coast is never seen from a ship approaching it ; the pictnro of the elevated larid is what presents itself to the sailor; in this he is guided by so much of the topography as can be seen at a rnasonable distance at sea, and· this lie~ back in the country at distances which are not determinable but by actual survey; theuce the only rule is th.at which I have followed, and long ago statec!, namely: the "topography must go to the ridge of mountains which det.ermine the heads of the coasting rivel'S or creeks, or their passage through such mountains, what is culled in !<~ranee, technically,' le ver8ant de la Vallie cotiere,' or' le 11oi8a11t de la cote.'" S11ch it has always been understood and proved. 18. My rule of action, and ~nide in the work, must be my contract to make the work "lwnomble and permancntZ11 useful, to the nation:" the way to obtain the aim must be left to me; if l was to be guiuod by any foreign direction, except mathematical principles, some of my assistanta might .even rise up against me, refusing to do, what. they might think to exceed my ,powers, and I ·nld either have to dismiss lhem for such refusal, or the work would become impossible. · 19. Hithertci the work has pro.ceeded in harrnouy, and with .all goqdwilling exertions on the part of every one; if such had not been the liberal action of all in the case, not half the \Vork would be done, w.hich lictunlly is done. 21. The attempt to find causes for change in my arrungcment, by the resolution of the lust' Cougrcss session, and t\1C present committee, has ~! ready caused a great damuge. To 84: As I keep a regular journal every day, since 1811, when I left Schenectady for London, for all the time that I am in public employment, I can give exact account of every event of any moment; here foHows therefore the extract from these journals, referring. to this qnestio~~ My work in the office hos always been tho most arduous and laboriohs tUK, in the combination of the scientific methods, devising tho means, the cn.1cHlntions, and all the manifold parts, of the administrutio11, or direction of . the works. Any man of science in this practical line will see that easily. Times of going to the field work,Jlud returning from it each year, thus:
In 1832.

September 25, having received the instruments, I left Wushingt~m the 26th of September, at s o'clock, A. M., to reconnoitre for the continuauce of my works of lSl 7, towards the east of it; returned to Vlashirlgto11 the 3lst·of Jannary, 1833, iu the evening.
1833.

April 5, at i&, A. M., left Washington for the first beginning of actual primary triangulation; )'1Jturned to Washington the 3d of Junuary, 1834, in the QVening. 1834. After having finished all the preparations aud comparisons for tho meas..

58
urement of the base line, I left the 29rh of May, at 9 o'clock, A. M.,1 hav~ ing made tf\i;o stations; returned 21st January, 1S35, in the evening.
1835.

There bP,ing much calculation to be made, ancl many arrangements, for the organization 'of the parties, the State of Maryl1md having offered an arrangement to join the survey of that State with that of the coast survev, I went out only at different intervals to reconnoitre the country in Maryland, and u11til Washington and the outer bays, accompanied by Mr. · J. H. Alexander, of Baltimore, until late in the fall and winter, Details could be given if needed.
1836.
7~

The present oflke was established. l left 17th August, at A. M.,and returned the 8th of January, 1837.
1837.

o'clock,

I left Washington 14tl1 June, at Si o'clock, A. M., and returned at 4~ o'clock, P. M., 5th January, 1838. .
1838.

I left Washington Julr 19, at 8 o'clock, A. M., and returned 24th Decembe.r, 1838, just at sunset.
1839.

1 le(t Washington thrt 9th of June, at 7 o'clock, .\. 1'1., a.nd returned the

5l.h of January, 1840, beginuing of dark.
1840.

I left Washington the 14th of Septeiq,ber, at 8 o'clock, A. M., 1840, and arrived agaiu·at Washington the 20th of Ja1111ary, 1841, at 6 o'clock, P. M.
1841.

.I left ,Washiugton 29th August, at IO o'clock, A.
22d December, 1841, at night.

M.,

1841, and returned

This enumeration shows how the office work has increased since the beginning, when the work was starting, and tbc clements for it were first collected·in the field. In the further progr{'.ssing stale of the work, the calculations, ns well of myself, as of the assistants, the reduction into maps, making of projections, to take to the field, for the topographical and hydrogra.phical works, their plotting and working out, required as muoh, alld in most cases even more work, from the assistants in the office, thnn ont of doors; so that indeed the going out for the field work is considered as real relief, from the harder works of the office, as well for me, as for the assistants. l4'or what relates to my assistants' time of going to the field work, they mnst be ai>ked themselves.

Rip. No. 43: ·
'To 83 till 90, inclusive : There is some miswriting in somQ of my n11-swers to these questions. Instructions for !':Ounding outside o( Long Island nnd New Jersey shore, from Block Island until Cape May, out of sight of land, nnd some iu,tcrior parts, given to Capt. Gedney, in 1841 :. · · 1. The soundings arc to be extended in the lower part of New J~rsey, a~ far as the Gulf stream, which will be met thern, ::lt a distl\ncc appropriated to the wants of the approaches to the 8horc iu na vigatiou. , 2. The return current of the Gulf Stream will'be mel before, and perhaps already something of an inner stream, which nms insidC' of this parallel to .the Gulf strealJI, nearer to the shore, in the more southern parts of the ~oust, us a result of the contre-current; it may be sensjblc along the Jersey ~oast, but along the shore of Long Island none of these will likely be felt. 3. These two inner cmrents will, in their places, haven tendency to lend the sounding vessels off from their intended courses, so that nccount must 'he kept of this circumstance in the sailing nnd the determination _of the Jioints of sonndings 4 ' 4. There will Le found nloug the Jersey shorn, near about the distance where the land aenses to be visible, t~ sand bank, or beach under water, which, when met '~ith in nuy pince, it is proper to follow in its course, o.s t· special object. It will likely present more or less breadth and interruptions by deep water similar to the inlets of t·he dry benches of the shore. 5.' As the entrances of the inlets through the dry benches are of importance, it will be nocessarv to determine if these two outer nnd inner inlets -correspond, anc.1, in a11y case, to determine any best course of navigation leading to the iulets of the beaches through these openings or intorrnption of this outside bar. They nre much nsed by coasting vessels. 6. On the ontsido of Long'Islaud shore such a bunk is not likely to be, in a similar manner as along the Jersey shore, bul rather a deepening placed somewhat similarly, but further from the 1_.1hore, outside of which there will likely be less dept Ii again. 7. In the oifiugs of New York ba.y, where these two probable dispositions ·cross one u11other, great attention wilt be paid to tho irregular changes of the depth and the c1mc11ts; these latter will change with the time and the <litfercnt elevations of the tides, therefore also at different times of the year; perhaps some regularity may show its~lf in it, with the time of the tide, which it will be of inll'rest to ascertain. s. It would lend to clear up the question of the currents, if the directiol'I, of the cnrrent of the ebh tide fo lite offing was carefully followed in its <:onrse, particnlurly in the times of the highest tides; because, these will al ways occasion temporary currents in dir1Jctious, \Vhich depend on UHi.HY ·circumstances of the winds, and the confignrntion of the ground under water. 9. In the pnrt of the Jersey shore already passed over, the sonndii~gs ought yet to be mnltiplied in several places by 'boats, nearer to tho shore than the larger vm1sels can come; this joins with the investigation stated above, of the beach nnder water or shoal bank, which longos the Jersey shore, and the openings through it. In calm weather, passages· are well practicable with boats, which may be sent olf from tho vessel attending 10 them from the outside. 10. In tho part of the soundings already done and fulling in the map of New York, the register map exhibits some omissions, which must be filled

68

B~p.

No. 43.

up first;. therefore, will be the first work to be attended to this spring, Rnd the results of them be sent into the office as soon as obtaine<.l; these are: A. The low grounds of Commnnepa, at the west of the light-house of Robin's reef; aronn<;l Bedlow's and Eilis's islands, they have in the lower part only one liue sounded through in a northerly direction, which is not an actual channel, but the steamboat~ pass throngl1 two different channels,. over the flat west of the light-house and east of the island, &c.; there arc docks at the two islands which are of constant use and evcm proposed for public works, &c. These flats in general are navigated at high water in different directions by small vessels; it is the.reforc necessary to make a regular, foll, accurate sounding of the whole-the docks, channels, &c.-with boats, directed .from the vessel stationed at proper places, and determined from the many triangle points of the neighborhood. · B. The cove, calted the Great Kilns, at tbe southeast side of Staten island, northeast of Princess bay, has an inlet practicable, at high water, for small vessels, which occasions very often that many go iu to shelter iu. it : it must be sounded with boats. ·c. The whole shoaler part of the Jersey sh01'e, fror South Amboy to the Navesink, and the bay behiud Sandy Hook, mnst lie sounded nearer in sHore, till to below 2 feet depth, even some inlets of the creeks, the bay and. harbor of Keyport, Miudletown point, &c. Steamboats a11d coasting vessel.a frequent this shore; it is therefore necessary and importaut to have the c1etail soundings of it. , D. The eastern part of Gravesend bay must be filled up \~ith soundings in the same way. E. The inlet of Rockaway and into tho Jamacia bay has been omitted to be sounded, as far as it is practicable, towards the interior with smaU vessels wbich frequent it ver.y much, a part even admits la1gor vessels. It will be proper to fill up that deficiency, a11cl to go with a boat rouud in the interior, to see how the low grounds, which arc extensive and with mar~hy bottom, arc constituted. "The same is th~ case with the neighborhoorl, Hog Island inlet, and several such places ;iround ; nearer notice of them must be taken it) the maps; and by the indication of the low soundings, tho end of the navigable part may be indicated, in the same manner as that has been clone in Great South bay. ' · F. In all these places it is proper to determine tlw two lines of high and low water. G. In all the bay, the curreuts must yet be observed more particularly. JI. In all soundings the nature of the bottom is of course observed, and,. in proper places, introduced in the maps or churls. l J. For the accurate deterrninalions of the places of these different interior soundings, you will have to put up again the signals of the 11eighbor-· hood, which will be needed as fixed points, to determine tlrn position of the · vessels and the boats from them. 12. To determiue your position, 011t of sight of land, yon will always. take your departure from a point yet in sig.ht of .some well-determined station8, and get, by observation upon four or five points, the means of vel'ification by indcpend~nt data, for the more accurate determination of this i;tarting point. . 13. From such points you may then proceed in a regular, uniform course, aud direction, <lcten:nining the rate of going of the vc~sel, and keep,-

~t·p.

No. 43.

ing account of the time elapsed since tho starting from the pointof departure to all the points at which you will take soundings, by which yon will be able to make an estimate of the position of such a place, and alf th~ points under way at which soundings have been taken ; wheno\·er occa-· sion presents itself, you may verify yonr work hy retracing the ronte backwards, determining again the point of.arrival, wi.thin sight of the same, or ·other convenient, well-dett>rmined points on the shore, determining the place of arrival in the same manner ns the point of cleparturn Lins been. By keeping account of these forward and return courses, by both tho log ·and· the time of the chronometer, with n first frne determined rate of veJocity, you may, by this comparison of the two double r~sults, get an in. sight into the currents, if any, in the directions gone' through. . 14. This method you may pursue to u. rertnin. distance from either the .Jersey or die Long Island shore, particularly if no changes occur from laternl c_urrents or other disturbing causM. 15. You may, under favornblc circnnistnnces, from any well-detennined sounding point, send off boats to mo.ke sou11dings, uudcr qw guide of an. azimuth compass, in, a direction rcctcrngnlar to the conrse of the vcsseltbut this will be admissible only where the depth is 11ot too gnmt. The . distances, being measured hy the tune and velocity of the boat, uscertaiued as well as possible. 16. In starting from a point sonth of the Long Island shore, well dete1·mined by the problem of three points, in the nm1111er described ubovo, you may be sailing under n determined angle with the meridian, in h. stel\{ly southerly direction, then yon can, by the dcterminatiou of your latitude at noon, indicate the point of arrival ut that time, by which the 'length of yo'ttr whole course will be determined, and hecowe compnrnble with the register of your sailing; by this, o lso, all tho points at. which soundings have llcen taken in tho cour~c of !he lino, aud its coutiuuance afternoou, will be_ come determined proportionally, and become compuruble. 1 7. In such a course, and in general, in any case of determination of . your position by the i1oon obsen·ations. of the su11, you will find it advantageous for the accuracy of the result, as well as most easy, to make use· of the method of determining latitude and longitude, simultuucously, by circnm-meridian observations, with a reflecting instrument nnd a chronometer, a method which I hlive described and usod to advantage. IS. You will make, as much as posi<iblc, regular obscrvntious on board ship, to ascertain the. rate of yonr chronometers, uud corupare them at in· tervals with the well-determined time of New York, keepi11g separate account of the going of the chronometers, which, bc'sides that, yon will com· pare.together every day. Of the whole, you will keep n regular register,. in the manner in which vou have the form i11 one of miue. The' chronometers being regulated· for mean time, it will_ also be uccessai-y to get mean time in New Y grk. 19. To verify your compass, yon will mako a regular comparison of iL with any one of the principal li11cs of the nmin trinngulation of the coast,. near your operations, of which the rcnl azimuth will bo furnished to you. whenever you will inform the office ,of the coast survey of the line chosen. 20. Tile base line of tho Long Island shore itsolf mny be fitting for that purpose; you may, at.the snme time there invcstigo.to the state of secmity and preser\'ation of the monument stones, placed nt lhll two cuds of the

. Rep. No. 43.
base, which it is so highly important to preserve undisturbed, and your information .upon this snbject to the coast survey office is desired. _ 21. Whenever out of sight of land, you will, at every noon, make the observation indicated by the method above alluded to, keeping a regular acr.onnt of the resnlts ot the observations, both us to .Jatitnde and the time of your chronometers; these tletermi11ations will form the principal data to compare with the time of New York. 22. For all observations of latitude or time, at sea, you will make use ·of your best sextant of 'froughton, using the largest magnifying powers, and always mate series of as many observations as can be conveniently made, suppose five or ten, in the latter case forming two calcniations, each .of five observations, to take a mean result.

,
" 7

.
CITv, JJfay I, 1841.

F: R. HASSLER.

ASHINGTON

W ASJIING'J'ON Crrv, May 7, 1842.

Sm: You will, with all the officers and ere \V attached to your party of the brig Washington, proceed, as soon as yon can be ready, to sea, to exeeute the direction given to you in my instruction of May 1, 1841, which .YOU will consider as herewith repeated to yon at fnll length, and execute all the operations to he performed for the soundi11gs out of sight of land, between the longitudes of the eust cqd of Long Island and of Cape Hen'lopen and the latitudes of the same points, in the nrntmer indicated to you at that time. You will employ in this work all the means of assistants, and all other ·means which are at your disposition, exclnsively, for all the time during which the season may be favorable to that work, or until to ifs full com·pletion, that, if possible, it may not become necessary to recnr to the same works another seasotJ. Yon will in this work follow the special instrnc·tions, and ddcription of methods of observing, &c., which I have given to you in writing, to yonr instrnction of last year. When you either have fnlly executed th~ task here stated, or the .season will no more allow work at snch a clistancc from the coast, as may 'be required, yon will report to me your progress immecliately, to receive ·such instruction about your further works as the state of the work and the circumstances will then dictate. \Vi th best wishes, yonrs, &c.

wrn

.

F. R. HASSLER .

Com'r 'fn. R.

GEDNEY,

U. S. N,

.llssislant in the Coast SurN'!J·
It is evident to every man acquainted with the coast and its approaches that the district, described i11 these i11structions, forms the offings of the two ports of New York and the Delaware bar. The brig Washington is .~onsiderc<l a vessel well aclu1.itecl for this work; it is in good order for it. To 91: The end of my answer should stand thns: according to my spe..cial formulw for the work. There are other mis writings in the question .and the answer.

Rep~

No. 43.

61

To 92 and 93: Theso answers I consider sufficieut, as any detailed discussion could not lead 10 any useful result; 'there are slight misuuderstnndings in the writing, which are of no momeut, as for instance in OS, ascertained is uot. my, nor n. proper, expression, &c. . / To 94 to OS, iuclusive : These answers I consider as self-evident, and entirely of the domni11 of the science, in one respect, aud of the decision of 1he Goverment iu uuother; I have said upon it what was to be said by me, iu its proper place, iu 111y report of lase December. If 1he work is not carried on, with all the mcaus tliut science dictates for its execution, it is wor.~e than useless, and disc?'cdilrlble. I cousider myself al ways bound to s\1ch a course, as I have hitherto pnrsned, and have found myself always approved in this dew, by those men best (1ble to judge, and by those in tile proper stations lo decide upon it. To !J9: So far as is expected from small secondary triangles ; but, according to good principles, it 111ust still be joined in its middle, by tria11glos ncross tho country, from the main triangnlatiou inland ; this is iudispc.msa ble mathemutic~tl n~qui:,ite. To 100: It is well ktHnV11, by my very first plans of operation for the· work, that this was the only tnw course for the main triuugulution. To 101 : It is self-c\·i<lellt to auy practical muthcrnaticiau, and answered in a former qne,tio11. To l 02, 103, and I 04 : Arc su!llcient explained. I may onl~r add now,. 25th May, that a third engraver has jnst unived from PhiladdpliirL. To 105: There is evidelltly all omission. of sollle words ill my answer. To 106: This time, i11cludcs in part the time used iu the preparatory arra nge·me nts. To 107 and 108: It is 11·f.ll IC11own tlmt the finer style of topography is uot in practice yet in this cou11try; my Juty reqnired, that this pnrt of the· executioll of the work should Im of tile i>est quality, to uuswer honorably the aim of the work, in its fi11al appearance in tho public: therefore I pro-· cured, with anthorizatioll of tho Treasury Department, two men known in Enrope already i11 this line, from the quarter in best renown for the appropriated style. of those works, which will guide the style or the work, also. with the engravers, to hq engaged herenfter. To 109 : The habitual way i11 common use is very bnd. To preserve tho accuracy obtained by tho work of the survey, the maiu point:-;, which guide the positions, aro brou~ht upon the copper, by tho sume assistant,. ~vbo makes the druwing or the map, which socnres tho accuracy. For the same reuson, o lso, the engrn y,jng awl the printing lllltst be made in the office itself, where it is done much more economically, uudcr proper inspection, 1111tl not dilapidated.To 120 ad<l : Whenever an interest wns mnnifosted for :rny part of tho work, for improvements, or otherwise, the· oxtrncts of tho work desired, wern given under the aulhm·izalirm of the Treasmy Oepnrtme11t, u11de1~lwse decision all comrnw1ical ions or publications arc to bo macle, ac··ordi11g lo my ngreemeut. ·

Lisi o/ the individual nid.ps e:recu/ed and deliv~red.
No.
By whom made.

Scale.

l

2
4

I
i

I

Dille. i-------Re_m_·_rk_s_.- - - - - ·

31
5
6

Harbor of Bridgeport, Ct. Newark bay, N. J. Harbor of New Haver., Ct.

I
II

- ! Lt. G. S. Blake - I Lt. Th. R. Gedney - Lt. G. S. Blake, and Wm. M. Boyce. 1 Country between the Thames and l F. H. Gerdes Niantic, from the sound up to I Mohigan creek. C. Renard Sandy Hook bar -

l

1-10,000 1-10,000 1-10,000 1-10,000

1835 1831338 1840

Engraved.
l<~ngraved.

Engraved.

I
1-10,000 1-20,000 .l-10,000 1-20,000

Treasury Department, for the honorable J. W. Williams.
Department, light-h~nse, Mr. Pleasonton. Treasury Department, for Senator Huntington. Topographical bnreau . Treasury Department, for the honor- · able .T. W. Williams. · ··

1341 \ Treasury 1842 1842 1842

Thames river, topography and hydrography. 7 \ Sandy Hook bar .8 Fisher's Island sound, and the en1 trance of New London harbor,Gt.

F. H. Gerdes

H. L. Whiting F. H. Gerdes

t

Rep. No. 43: ·

63

To 111 and 112: The principles of my action in this respect, are fully -exposed already in my printed papers upon the coast survey, qu6ted. before. The reduction, to nny other measure, c;onsists only in the addition of .a constant lngarithrn, as for instance, that for the yards, and even for the rniles, is given in my printed logarithmic and trigonometric tables. As all the ~calm~ of the maps arc expressed by their fractional value, the distanctJ upon the m:ips can be a~certained in any measure whatsoever, and by that· means is really given in any measure whatsoever, which is widely different from the bnd metlwd so 1uany miles to the inch, which has uo regular comparabl~ proportion. The pressing of the questions pnt to me in the committee, and refusing all explanatory answers, in a subject which cannot be understood without them, must of course always leave some unilluminated spots after the examination is over; I mU3t therefore take the liberty to supply afterwards. 1st.· Mr. Aycrigg asked particulars about: why I !Ueasured with the metre as uuity. I will not delay here by any detailed explanation, bnt must take the liberty to refer to my report upon the coa_st survey works of May 17, 1831, section :H, where the subject is fully treated, it stands i11 page 148 of the first volume of documents upon the snrvey of the coait, printc;d by me in 1834, 11rnl in the Congressional Documeuts of that time. 2d. Mr. Cushing sai1l, that the discoveries of dangers in the navigation · <>f the so1111d had been kept secret ten years; this is i111 entirely erroneous statement, tho work itself being even not as old as that, the sound was of eourse worked later; the sounding part was made by Lieute11uut Blake, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey; I request that he bo .askeJ particularly to cleur up this erroneous statement. 3d. Upon the pnblieatiou, or not publication of any thing resulting froru the const survey," no reproach wliatsoevrr can be applied.lo me, because, by my contract with the Government, I am prohibited to communicate any results without order of the Treasury Department. Whenever such orders were given, they were instantly executed, us well known, sometimes even they were provoked by me, and given to public otlicers. l\ly public aceounts showed regularly every year the state of the work, upuii which any eall could have been grounded. I must, in this respect, req itest again that my answers to questions 5 nnd 7, of tny last report, be considered as insert· -ed ·here, and also the section 12, ~f my communication of 23q March last. 4th. The publication is, of comse, n conscqncuco of the survey; but only in proper tiple. Its reduction, as well by calculation as by the mapping, is a work absolutely intermediate between tho two, therefo1·c the means given. by the appropriation are to be distributed in dne propo1·tion hetweeu them, according to tlie a/ale of Ihr work, and the means on haud, by the existing appropriation at any special time. Besides, no publication can be creditably <lone, uule~s it presents a work, presenting a systematic whole in itself, he it a map of a harbor, or a certain part of -the coast. The origin of the improper, hasty claims, is too well known to me i it would be of too much real tlam11:ge to give way to it. 5th. I was asked how many hours the nssiatnnts worked per day,, r answered, as many as the day .allows, (tlie work curmo/ he made in offite hours.) Tb is addition, I believe, h1ts been omitted to be written down; ht fact, all my assistants, like I, work from interest for the work, and not ~

-Rep. No .. 43;
hirelings b,y llw lwur.s, .it would be a disgrace to treat lhe actors in a scientific work with such illiberality. To 113 and 114 : These answers are self-evident. To 115 add : As far as known to me, at leatlt in respect to the scientific account of tho work, as there is nothing of it in the pnblicalion of the English survey. To 11 aand 117: Sufficiently clear by tlrn111selves. To 118: The hours of work arc immaterial to mention, as they all work with really liberal exertions, for the best advautage an<.l promotion or' the · work, even w'ith regard to economy. A well-orgauized work produces much result, without appearing laborious. To 119 add: My wi:irk in establishing the uniformity of standards,, weights·, and measures, in this country, with more accui:acy (I cau safely pretend) than other countries have it, arc public doc111ue11ts which spe.ak upon that. My \'ariom; books printed, upon cletneutnry parts of mathematics, upon astronomy, ta hies, &c., might be looked at iu the Congress Library, and if desired I will show the lllllllllSCl'ipts of other works not yet published. However, my situation in early lifo haJ caused nw to apply to diplomacy and jurispn;dencc; and I occupied offices of liigli trust iu these branches, to full satisfaction, as my papers may prove, my first enter\ug ipto 'public life dating now over 56 ymrs ugo. I must be excused Lo enter here iu extraneous details, because I recollect very well Mr. Mallory's qncstiou was general, whet/ta l lmm.LJ somct!1ing more titan 011/y lite coast sw·vP!J. \Vitl10nt the limitatiou to mathematical. 'fo 120 add: Hut tb1; constant persecution to whiclt the work has bec11 exposed, and especially 1ww is. impede its progress very much; there is a damage now incurred by the propr,isitions of the last Com;ress session, and the ·preseut investigations, which have been occasioned by ·it, of p1JEitively upwards of Sso,ooo, in Jelay of the work, and accessories; besides the discouragemeut occusio11eu by it, in all those perso11s wl10 are c11g:iged in the work,·by theirseeiug their liberal exertions rewarded by throwing out suspicions against them, these occasiou a stiJI greater damage. The discredit thrown out in tbc public, occasious impedimc11ts with tire people in tho country, with w horn we come in co11tact, they cousidcr themselves equally authorized to iil-trcat us, which makes the work dHiicult, nllll i11crenstis the ex-penses beyond reasou, to 110 good purpose, and subject to rn:certaiutY,. F. R. IIASSLEit W ASHJNG·roN Crrv, J,we I, 1842.

TnEAsunY DEPAlt'l'MEN'r, ,June 9, 1849· · ·. Srn : 1 have the honor to submit, herewith, the information called for in the resolu tiousof~lw select committee of the House of Hcprcsantutives, on the subject of the coast survey, eudoscd in the communication of the honorable Francis Mallory, chairman of said committee, addressed to the President 1m<ler date of the l 2lh of March last, copies of which were f umishcd by the w.mmittee to this Department ou the 16th ultimo. · The information is contained in the accompanying letters and statements:

from i}le W~r.~nd N~v:,t·Depa'.rtm~nts~ the. ~econ·d· ~n:d FoQr~h'·,~.~lt~
~nd the ~eg1ster. of·~h~ rrc~sury, n,nmQ_ered from l to 5, bot~ uic~~J;t~ ·. Allwh1ch isrespectfltlly submitted.· ' · .· · · .W. FORW~.R.D;.

Secretary ofthe ~e,i1ttry~

The

PREs1nENT

of the United Stales.

NAvY
~ ~"r:nµrnnication

DEPAR.TMENT, Ju~e

!1, 1842·.

from the Hpn. F. Mal.lory, 7hairman of the.se.l~c~,.c~~ puttee on the ~oast survey," an~ requestrng this Department.ti;> fqi;n1'b tR· jnformation asked ,.or~ so far as i.ts files and records would en!lble.it. to do,Sq, l have the honor 10 tra!1smit n copy of .a letter from tho F~mr,th Audjtor,, ~ith .a statement showing the names of the otficflrs of the Na:v;y w.tio tµiv;. b~en .ernployed on the coast survey, and the amount pf pay receive~ b,y ~a,cb. · · · I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. P .. UP,sll;U~. ~on. WALTEJ\ FonwAnn, Secrelarv of the Treasury.

Sra1 In reply to your letter of the .16th ultimo, transmitti~g "~ copyj~C

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Fourth .fiuditor's Office, Muv 31, U!49 ·. Sra : A letter addressed to you by the ac~ing Secretary of the Tr{'a11ury, on the HJth instant, enclosing a communication from the chairmnn Of a se;.. lect committee of tho House of Representatives to the President of th&· United States, requesting certaiu information in regard to .the coast survey-. having been referred to this office for a report, I have the honor to transmit· a tabular statement," showing the' navy pay' received by the several officers employed on the said survey, during Jhe respective periods of their engagement on such service," so far as it can be asr.ertained from the files or records of this office. It is proper for me to observe, ho \Vevor, that,·as the purs'er's accounts for the first quarter of the present year have not Erll been received, (the law allowing three mouths after the clo:>c of the qnarter for rendering them,) it is possible that Sl)ffie payments·may have been made,' between the 1st of January and the 12th of March Inst, to the officers employed on the said survey, which are not included in the stutemeut submitted; but, if there be any such, I arn satisP,ed that the amount of tbem is inconsiderable. · · . The papers referred to me are-herewith returned. I havo th& honor to be, &c. A. 0. DAYTON. Hon. A. P. Ut>snun, · Secretary of the Navy.
5

88
ft. '

Li·~'?./9.ffi!!era of the ruwv who ,M!ve be~n employed on ,the coa# 1urvey, · '''bt;l.t(J.eeritheperiodnfthe commencement tliereofanclthe 12thofldarch, 1"842/' alwwing also the amount of navy pav. received b!J eacli while engage4 in the performance of said duty, so far as appears by documents onjUe in ~his office.
ND.Illes.

Rank.

Amount.

Thomas R. Gedney

Geo. s. Blake I. 1'· McLa,u~hlin ·

Lieut. comm'g and commander Lieutenant commanding · Passed midshipman -

Prancis Huger B. W. Hu11ter A. S. Worth T. A,. Jenkins .. W: J. H. Robertson .Toshua Humphreys John Rodgers Geo. M. Totten John L. Ring Levin Handy Alberto Griffith B. F. Sands A.A.Holcomb R. W. Meade W. lt Ball ,P. D. Porter . F:.clinton J, Sterrett Richard Bache. S.C.Row~n It Wainwright Geo. M. Bache Oi.P. Patterson C. W. Chauncey J. J. Hoyle D. F. Dulaney J. K. Mitchell W. Ct1andler ~;

Do Do Do

.

·
-

Passed midshipman and lieut. Passed midshipmau Midshipman Passed midshipman and lieut. Midshipman Passed midshipman

Do
Passed midshipman and lieut Do dd Do do Do do - , Passed midshipinan Passed midshipman and lieut. Passtd midshipman -

Do ,

· :.. -

Passed midshipman and lieut. Dll <lo Do' do do Do Do do Lien tenant

Do

$13,593 12,421 447 437 423 409 7,272 281 286 408 276 3,017 3,266 3,424 7,158 5,773 3,215 3,140 .5,627 2,464 887 3,880 4,584 1,544 3,912 3,491 l,841

20 SS

69
40 02 23 20 61 69 11 23 08 79 91 93 71 11 41 08 75 71 90

46 52 98 38 71 51 40 43 76 21 97. 78 13 01 54

3~039 08

G. Parrntt H. H.Lewis 'I'. IL Stevens -

Stephen J ohns1011 John Mooney -

H.

s. Stl.'ilwagen

Henry Moore W. A Bartlett I. P. Md{i11s1ry Oliver T,odd · D..T. Morller -

Ai;sistant surgeon Lieutenant Do' Passed ,midshipman and lieut. Passed midshipman Midshipman Lieutenant Passed midshipman ancl lieut. Do do Lieutenant Passed midshipman

-

-

4.55 2,974 2,960 1,452 709 l95 1,402 1,093 2,026 916

Do
Passed midshipman and lieut. !Jo do Passed midshipman -

!J(jl 86 302 15

T. A. Budd

7,935 76 3,718 21 11478 88

Rep. N_o. 4a
LIST-Continued,.
Name·. Rank.
Amo1111t.

T. A. M. Craven Z. Holland W. Bleecker W. Craney A. McLane H. C. Flagg C. W. Morris Henry Oaks -· W. E. Newton I. I. Almy W. 13. Whiting I. F. Mercer W. S. Young 0. H. Perry W. C. Lambert C. C. Harton Luther 81oddard Francis Lowrv John Hall · 'l'. M. Brashear I. B. Dale· D.R. Cmwford Ed. Jeukins R. C. Cogdell S. D. Lavalletto J. N. Barney M. C. Delaney S. Sharp T. I. Page 0. H. Berryman I. A. Dahlgren 1''. A. Bacon W.May 1''. P. Hoban I. C. Graham C. J. Wyche A. L. Case

Passed midshipman Do Do Midshipman Do Passed midshipman and lieut. Do do Midshipman Do Passed midshipman Passed midshipman and lieut. Do do Do do Passed midshipman Do Do Do Do Do Do Passed midshipman and lieut. Passed midshipman t Do Do - . l\1idshipmau Passed Midshipman Surgeon

$4,949 69 482 5.2
lil66 06

-

220 81 227 57 1,877 43 2,913 66 263 06 2.51 39 710 23 4,30.l 06 2,875. 99 6,050 09 527 60

68i 15
448 84303 79 1,217· 49 227 72 245 76 2,045 97

-

269 60
589 293 '170 139 1,749 2,781 11,781 S,218 . 3,127 43 14S 13.9 288 l.!I 81 06 S9 02 45'

Do
Passed midshipman and lieut. Passed midshipman ·Do Do Midshipman Do Passed midshipman Do Do

07
65 35 83 90 7/$ Gl

·'

-

5Qo. .56 507 .Sa
1s1,942

n

11opies of which you enclosed to this. Pepartment fro~1 the "select committee o.a tho &nbject of the coast survey," I have to tl'ansnnt a report of the Colonel otthecorpsofTopographica.l Engineers. lt.isbelieved tl~at tbe furtb.e~_in(Qt~

W All DErAR'l':lfENT, May 1 i, 18·12. SIR: In. nnswcr to your letlot· of the 16th instunt, und the scvcrnl papers,

ation embraced in the call must :be furnishf3d rrom the records and files of tpe Treasury and Navy DepartmentR, and their subordinate bureaus. The papers transmitted by you are respectfully returned herewith. Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

J.C. SPENCER.
To the SEcliET ABY oF :rm.:
TREASURY. .

--

. NoTE.-The pay accounts of officers of the army a.re settled by tbe 1)~cond Auditor of the Treasury. BuaEAU
OF T~l'OGRAPIIICAL ENGINEERS,·

Wa.vltington, May 17, 1842. : Sn: I have the honor to acknowledge your direction.to report npou certain· queries from tbe· select committee on the coast survey. Of the que-

ment.

ries·on the paper A, the 4th is the only one applicable to the 'War Depart-

.

· The following is the list Of army officers who have been employed in. this duty: . . · Major John .T. Abert, corps topographical 1mgineers, in 1816. Major John J; Abert, corps topographical engineers, in lRl 7. Major John J. Abert, corps topographical engineers, in 1818. Lient~nant W. G. McNeill, of the artillery, in 1818'. Lieutenant J. A. Adams, of the artillery, in 1818. Lieutenant J. R. Vinton, of the artillery, in 1818. . Captain W. H. Swift, corps topographical engineers, in 1832, 1833, 1836, 1837, 1838, 1839, 1846, 1841, and 1842, · \ Major Abert and Captain Swift were, while so employed, also the disbursing agents of the Treasury l)@partme!'lt. It is not in my power to state either the "army pay and emoluments" any "additional pay'' which these officers received while on Miis duty~ as the accounts· in the case do not pass ·through this otnce. The Second 'Auditor\vill be able to furnish the information in reference io army pay and emoluments, atld the First Auditor that in reference to additional.pay .. · The queries of the paper Bare the following: ; 1st' Whether a part of the topographicnl corps of the army can be detached for the purpose of the coast survey. · Answer. This can undoubte.dly be done; probably from four to six '~ould be detached during the )">resent season; and more, as the various '8llrveys upon which the corps is now engaged aro completed, if other duties are not )n the mean time- assigned to it. : · . 2d. Whether the expense of the servire of the coast survey will probably be reduced by detaching a part of the topographical corps. ' Answer. There would certainly be a reduction, to the extent of the civil agents, and the amounts of compensations paid to them, who would have their places supplied by officers of the corps. · ' 3d. Whe1her the cxpen,ses of the survey of the coast will prohably be .reduced by employing other persons than officers of the army and lmvy to pe.rform the duties they are no\v 'employed to perform in the coast survey. ' Aflswer. This is a question of compensations, suppoSing qualifications to be equal in each. As officers of the army and navy draw their pay from the army emu navy 11ppropriations, it is dear, that, if some of these are ern·

or

69
nQt 110 ~mployed, but others in their places, these ~others must derive tl:ieir compensations from the appropriation for the coast survey, and the appro. pri~tion be taxed to that extent. Very re~ectfully, sir, yom- obedient servant, J;. J. ABERT, · Col. Corps TopograpMcal Engineers. ·Hon. J. c. SPENCER, Secretary of War.
TREASURY DEPARTMEJS'T,

ploye«l"W ll\e. -0oast·FU1.w:ey, the.,npp~pria.tio,1,1. for that su!.v.e~ willb~·reliev'!: ed to the. am.ount.of their pay ; and equally. clear,. that, if th13se ofllcers ~re

· Second .Auditor's Office, May 23, 1842. Srn: In obedience to the request contained in your letter of the 18th in'!" stant, to be furnished with "the amount of army pay and <:imoluments, in dollara and cents," allowed to the officers of the topographical engineer corps, mentioned "in Colonel Abert's letter, herewith sent; also, .the pay and emoluments of Lieutenants Bomford and Mackay, of the army, whe> were employed in the coast survey duty in the year 1833," I ·have the honor to report as follows: Major John J. Abert was paid for the year 1816 . - il,545 20 · l,616 40 Major .To,hn J. Abert was paid for the year 1817 Mll:jor John .r. Abert was paid for the year lSiS 1,592 40 Lieutenant W. G. McNeill was paid for the year 1818 689 20 .1689 20Lieutenant J. A. Adams was pnid for the year 1818 Lieutenant J. K. Vinton was paid for the year 1818 689 20 .963 6() ·Captain W. H. Swift was paid fol' the year 1832 Captain W. H. Swift was paid for the yat\r 1833 'l.160 16 Captain W. H. Swift was paid for the year 1834 1,067 80 Captain yv, H. Swift was paid for the year 1835 947 00 . ·~4s oo Captain W. H. Swift was paid for the year 1836 ' 947 00 Captain W. H. Swift was paid for the year 1837 11363 93 Captain W. H. Swift was paid for· the year 1838 Captain W. H. Swift was paid for the year 1839 lt926 SC> ·Captain W. I-I. Swift was paid for the year 1840 '1;916 80 1;829 4() Ca1>ta:in W. H. Swift was paid for the year 1841 Aud from the 1st January, 1842, to 31st March, 1842, to which time only does he appear to have been paid for this .487 50 year i64 96 Lieutenant Bomford (J. Y.) was paid for the year 1833 . 837 9() Lieutenant Mackay (John) was paid for the year 1833 ' ... · And return herewith the accompaniments of your letter. I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

W. B. I&WIS.
McCLtNTocx YouNa, Esq., .!icting SeC'l'etary qf t/ie Treasury. Captain Swift~ by the act of·July, 18SS, receives the, pay and emoluments of a captain of cn.'valry ; previous to which, he received.only the pay, &c., of a captain of infantry ; and. by that act he receives one i·at.ion for ev~ry live years' service ; and since lSSS has, in addition, been in rQee.ipi of do1.1blft rations, 11s he was also for part of 1838. ·

to
A fist· of all ojftcera of I lie navy employed in the coast survey; t!ieit- navy . pay* ·during their service in tile coaat aurvey; and tlte additional pay of each in the coaat survey,from the year 1833 to 31st December, 184i.
Compensation. Y car and quarter. N 11ne and rauk. Additional · .,.__ ArreRrage&.

----

1833, 1833, 1833, 1893, 1833, 1837,

1st qnarter 2d quarter 3d quarter ad quarter· 4th quarter 1st quarter Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1837, 2d quarter Do Do. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do

Mid. Henderson Lieut. Bell Mid. Henderson Lieut. Bell Lieut. Bell T. R. Gedney G. S. Blake Mid. Handy Sands
I~ambert

$!l5 00 176 00 88 00 I84·oo 184 00 $1,516 00 l,434 00 633 00 706 00 336 00 449 00 558,00 585 00 47 00 760 00 330 00 119 00 331 oo· 119 00 760 00 449 00 760 00 304 00 353 00 219 00 2U 00 336 00 204 00 ,335 00 216 00 65 00 61 00 128 00 68 156 372 375 107 85 00 75 50 00 70 00

'

Budd Todd Craven Flagg
Dahlgr~n

-

.

C. M. Morris A. S. Worth Mercer Bleecker T. S. Page Griffith T. A. Jenkins A. F. Holcomb W. H. Ball R. W. Meade· A. S. Case D. D, Porter F. Oakes Clinton Holland Berryman Handy Humphreys . R. W. Meade T. ~.Gedney T. J. Page J. A. Dahlgren T. A. M. Craven F. F. Hagar

.

.

-

· For nav1 pay, 1ee ·latement of Fourth Auditor, accompanying Secretary of the Navy'· report, marked No. 1.

·R~p.'

No. ~ 4~~
Cumpenution. '
Addilional.

't

LIST"'"-Continued.

Year and quarter.

Name and r1mk.

Arrearage1.

---·1837, 2d quarter. Do Do Do Do ; Do Do Do Do Do Do 1.837, 3d quarter ~ Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do , Do Do Do Do
~

------~

-------

-

Do Do Do Do l837, 4th quarter Do Do Do ])o Do ])o Do Do Do Do

B. J. Morller 0. H. Berrymau J. McLa".f:hlin, B. F. San s A. Griifith A. A. Holcomb J. L. Ring R. W. Meade W. B. Whiting H. C. Flagg W. H. Ball Mid. Handy Berryman Newton McLane Meade Holcomb T. A. JeuJdns -. G. S. Blake T. A. M. Craven Mid. Sands 0. H. Perry . W. S. Young H. C. Flagg 0. Todd J. F. Mercer T. A. Budd A. Griffith L. Handy R. W. Meade D. D. Porter W. B. Whiting T. J. Page J. A. Dahlgren Mid. Clinton Holcomb Porter

.

$91 30 119 100 91 91 91 30 101 101 91 61 92 62 62 625 313 100 100 ll!a 173 92 211 183 129 92 bl 30 183 92 312 375 190 61 31 136 92 44 92 123 193

00. 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 $194 00 134 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

-

I

·

~

-

Ring
·Berryman ·Griffith Handy Ball Almy

R~p ..

No .. ,~·

LIST--Conti~µed.-

Year. and quarter.

Name a11d rank.

-Additional.

Compen11tion. Arrearage1.

r Mid. Clinton _Young Do ,.. Meade Do BudJ Do Perry Do T. J. Page Do T. A. Jenkins Do T. R. Gedney Do Mid. Morller Do ·, Sands Do _Whiting Do Almy Do Meade Do Ball Do _Holcomb no Meade Do Do Mercer Do .Todd Graham 1838, 1st quarter Do Handy ··no Berryman Do Holcomb -Lieut'. G. S. Blake Do Mid. Porter Do Do Handy Berryman Do Ball Do Do Meade Lieut. T. J. Page Do T. R. Gedney Do !<'. A. Jenkins Do .. T. A. M. Craven Do Mid. Sands Do -. Do Whiting Do Holcomb Do· Handy Do .Ball -. Do Berr}'man 1838, .2d quarter. Uobertson Do Todd Do Berryman Do Clinton Do Craney

1837, 4th qua.

. .

-

-

~

.
-

-

~

-

-

-

.. '

-

-

'

.
'

-

-

... -

-

I

$l<l4 00 51 00 so 00 46 00 45 00 :nt 50 312 50 156 75 184 00 100 00 92 00 46 00 31 00 61 00 61 00 31 00 51 00 92 00 121 00 31 00 31 00 31 00 210 00 92 00 28 00 28 00 59 00' 59 00 102 58 175 00 312 50 200 00 119 00 90 00 59 00 31 00
Sl 00 31 00 125 00

90 ·30 117 142

00 00 00 00

.~ep .. ~No .. ~f,.
LIST-:-Conth~ued.

-

Compensation. Year and q~atter. Name and ra11k. Additional.
Arrearqea.

1838, 2d quarter Do . Do Do Do Do ' Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do . Do 1838, Sd quarter Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do D<>' -

-

'

-. -

-

Do
Do Do

.

Mid. Handy . Meade Porter . . Riug · f<'Jagg Mor Iler Barton Berryman Handy .Almy . J. A. Dahlgren T. J. Page F. A. Je11ki11s Mid. Sands Lieut. T. R. Gedney G; S. Blake Mid. Patterson Todd .Berryman Ball Wainwright Holcomb ·Meade Mercer Lieut. Sterrett Mid. T. A. Budd Barton :' Whiting Perry Young Bndd Perry M. G. Delaney, surgeon Mid. Bacon -· Handy Stoddart Barton Meade Rowan Sterrett Bache M. G. Delaney Griffith M. G. Delaney

-

-

-

.
-

. . . .

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

00 61 00 89 00 30 00 46 oo' 90 00 44 00 31 00 31 00 100 00 1,967 30 125 00 312 50 100 00 156 75 259 .50 97 00 91 00 30 00 91 00 97 00 91 00 61 00 111 00 68 00 111 00 30 00 91 00 135 00 10700 17 00 17 00 97 00 34 00 61 00 34 00 31 00 31 00 127 00 31 00 127 00 31 00 120 00 , 31 00

~30

Rep~

No: 43'.

LIST-Continued.
ComponN.lion.
Year and quarter. Name nnd renk.

Additional.

Arroar1ge1.

----·- ·--·

···-

- -·----

-----·-------·---~----·----------

----

1838, 3d quarter -

Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do
Do Do

-

Do Do

Do Do
Do

Do
Do Do Do Do

1838, 4th quarter

Do Do Do
Do

Do

Do

Do Do

Mid. Sterrett Meade Wain wright Patterson Whiting Flagg Stoddart Lowry Brashear Barton Hall Ring Berryman Handy Hunter Sands T. J. Page T. R. Gedney T. A. Jenkins T. A. M. Craven M. L. Delaney, surgeon Mid. Meade Sterrett Todd Young 13all Handy Barton Hall Lowry Whiting M. L. Delaney Mid. Meade Holcomb Rowan Handy Patterson Whiting Barton Clinton Berryman Griffith Porter Sterrett

.,.

$31 31 62 62 62 136 31 39 38 31 39 123 62 31

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

oo·
$190 00

:.

100 125 156 312 200 30 30 30 92 92 61 30 30 30 30 30 31 31 123 02 31 61 31 31
184

61 92
184

31

00 00 75 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

Rep. No. ·43':
LIST-Continued.
,
Compenntion. Year and quarter. Name and rank.

-Additional.

''
Arrearagea.

1838, 4th quarter Do Do

Do
Do Do Do

Do
Do Do Do Do Do Do Do

-

-

-

Mid. Bache Sands Wainwright Ring
Ball

Do
Do Do Do

Do
Do Do

-

.' -

Holcomb Do Ring Do Porter Do Patterson Do Bache Do Wainwright Do Berryman Do Ball Do Morller Do Todd Do Whiting Do 1839, 1st quarter T. A. M. Craven Mid. Griffith Do Rowan Do Mercer Do Handy Do Whiting Do Ring Do Berryman Do Portor Do Whiting Do

Do

Harton Flagg Young Stoddart Mercer Hall Lowry llrnshear Meade Clinton Lieut. G. Bache Mid. Berryman Wyche T. J. Page T. R. Gedney T. A. Jenkins B. F. Sands Mi.d. Handy -

-

. -

-

s:

..-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

r

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

$92 33 61 61 31 12 73 43 73 123 43 .f3 73 13 13 261 30 125 166 31.2 66 61· 61 61 61 61 61 61 31 61 275 92 61 100 12 61
9~

-

00 33 '00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 25 00
$225 O()

I

31 31 31 31 31 28

00 15 50 66 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

Rep. No .. 4~
LlST-Continued ., .. .
,

Compenaation.

..

Yeu ·ad q0r-rtet.

Nt.me and re,nk. Ad4itional. Arrearageii.

1839, lat quarter Mid. Rowan Do Wainwright Do Berryman Do Handy Do Patterson Do Clinton Do Holcomb Do Ring Do Bache Do . T. J. Page 1Do 1'. A. Jenkins Do D. F. Sands Do G. S. Blake, lieut. com. Do Mid. Harnly Do Porter Do Patterson Do Ball Do Berryman Do Morlier Do Ring Do Holcomb Do Clinton 18S9, 2d quarter Whiting Do Handy Do Ring Do Chauncey Do Berryman Do Wainwright Do 'Holcomb Do Bache Do Clinton Do Ball Do Patterson Do T. A. M. Craven Do Meade . - Mid. Ring Do D0 Patterson , Do Berryman Do Ba\\ Do Wainwright Do Uodgers Do T. J. Page Lieut. 'f. R. Gedney --. Do , Do T. A. Jenkins

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

$59 59 28 28 59 79 59 !8 59 125 312 100 209 31 59 31 90 31 90 31 31 31
61

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

30 30 32 30 61 30 61 30 30 30 100
63

. -

31 31 31 31 31

125 00 156 75

-

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 t>O 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 -00 00 00 00 00

-

.·¢183 0 0

312 50

Iiei>. ·No. ·~s.
LIST.....:...c<lntinr.:ea.

------Compen·tion.

Yar and quarter.

N amo and rank. Additional.

Arrearqt1.

1839, 2d quarter Do Do Do Do Do . Do 1839, 3d quarter · Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do' Do Do Do Do . Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do . Do Do Do Do Do Do

-

-

-

-

.
-

Do

-

-

T. A. M. Cra\·en Mid. Ring Griffith Wainwright llerryman .· Young Lowry Sharpe . Ring Berryman Wainwright Whiting Rowan Meade Holcomb Ball Sands Pattersou Ball Whiting Mercer J. . ieut. Todd G. M. llache Mid. Porter . Bacho Clinton Lieut. Chauncey .\.lid. Ball Patterson Wainwright Holcomb Berryman S. Sharpe, surgeon · ll. F. Rands T .·T. Puge T. A. Jenkins Lieut. T. R. Gedney T. A. M. Craven Yonng Griffith Chauncey Bacho Mid. Patterson Whitiug

-

-

I..

-

-

.-

-

-

.

.

-

.

$187 50 30 00· 83 00 so 00 30 00 104 00 104 00 31 00 62 00 31 00 SI 00 62 00 92 00 92 00 33 00 31 00 187 50 so 00 so 00 60 00 150 00 212 00 78 00 12.! 00 92 00 · 92 00 92 00 31 00 31 00 31 00 92 00 31 00 124 00 187 50 125 00 312 50 156 75 187 50 02 00 02 on 61 0() 61 00 61 00' 30 00

...

Rep. No. 43.LIST.-Continued.
Compen1ation. Name and rank. Additional ·
..

year

and quarter.

Arrearage·.

Mid. Holcomb Porter 1839, 4th quarter Berryman Do McKinstry Do -. Morller Do Lieut. G. S. Blake Do Mid. S. C. Rowan · Do Lieut. Bache Do Mid. Bache Do Porter Do Lieut. Meade Do Mid. Wainwright Do Lieut. Griffith Do Mid. Ball Do Whiting Do MercN Do Lowry Do Holcomb Do Lieut. Chauncey Do Mid. Ring · Do Lieut. Meade Do - .Snrgeon Sharpe Do 'Mid. Clinton Do Porter Do Lieut. Bache Do Todd Do Lieut. 'I'. U. Gedney

183'9, 3d quarter

Do

$30 61 30 152 183
365

153 3l 92 61 61 31 61 31 123 31 31

00 00 00 00 00 75 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

:n oo

91
67
6

67 98 38

so

Do Do Do Do Do Do Do
.Do

T J. Page T. A. Jenkins
T. A. M. Cravc11 Mid. Sands Lieut. Young A. A. Holcomb Mid. Morller 8. C. Ho~an Wainwright Dae he Porter A. A. Holcomb Mid. Ball -_, Lieut. Bache Mid. Patterson Liei1t. G. S. Blake -

-

122

156 75

125 00
312 50 187 50 187 50

I

Do

Do Do Do
Do

, Do Do

,

-

1840, 1st quarter

-

92 30 92 61 61 61 61
31
(i l

31 92

00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

156 15

B.ep. No... .. 4.3· :
'

LIST ,-Continued. . ! ..
Compen11tion. Year.and quarter.
'
Name 11nd r11nk.

Addition11l.

Aneanpa.

1840, 1st quarter ... Do Do Do .Do Do Do Do Do .. l'>o Do Do Do . Do . Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1840, 2d quarter Do Do

-

Do
Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do

. . '

-

-

Mid. Sands Holcomb Patterson Berryman Todd Sands Rowan Ball Berryman Holcomb Mor Iler Mercer T. R. Gedney '!'. J. Page -. 1'. A. M. Craven Mid. Sands Youns . Porter Lieut. G. M. Bache A. L. Holcomb T. A . .Teukins . Mid. Patterson Wainwright .
Ball ·

-

-

-

-

-

. . . .
.

-

$62 31 31 123 62 62 60 60 29 29 81 144 184 125 187 62
91

-

Do
Do Do Do Do Do Do

-

.
.

Lieut. T. R. Gedney G. S. Blake .Mid. llel'rymau . Rowan Wninwright Whiting Young Lowry Flagg Patterson Berryman Holcomb Chandler Mitchell Boyle 'Moor Porter Lient. G. 1\I. Bacho S. Sharp, surgeon Lieut. 1'. R. Gedney

-

60 91 31 79 60 13 58 156 30 92 91 61 61 71 71 61 31 61 52 52 52 52 61 61

50 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 15 00 50 50 00 00 00 00 79 00 00

44 00

-

-

.

-

..

'

. -

25 75 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 5~ 00 104 50

-

1tt;p'..·No'. '4t.

(

,·:

'

.~

Lrst...:...conth;uea:
CompenH!ion.
~-·

Year and quarter.

-·

..
-

Name and rank · Additional. Arrearage· ·

1840, 2d quarter T. A. Jenkins Do - T. A. M. Craven Mid. Berryman Do Lieut. Stellwagen Do Do - Mid. Holcomb Dulaney Do Porter Do S. Sharpe, surgeon Do Do - Mid. Whiting ,Do - T. J. Page 1840, 3d quarter - D. F. Dulaney Do - Mid. Berryman Lieut. Stellwagen Do Mid. D. D. Porter Do Lient. Chandler Do Do - Mid. Patterson Lient. Mitchell Do G. M. Bache Do H. H. Holcomb Do Lieut. Moorci Do Young Do Mid. Whiting Do Lieut. Boyd Do Mid. Lowry Do Mid. Whiting Do Do - Surgeon Sharpe Lieut. Chauncey Do G. M. BacheDo 1\1 id. Berryman Do Do - T. R. Gedney T. J. Puge Do T. A. M. Craven Do T. A . .Jenkins' Do D. I>. Porter Do i A. A. Holcomb Do D. F. Dulaney Do Mid. Patterson Do Surgeon Sharpe Do Mid. Whiting Do 1840, 4th quarter Lieut. G. S. Blake Mid. R. Bache Do C. W. Morris Do Lieut. W. Chandler Do G. M.Bache. Do

-

-

-. -

-

-

-

-

.

-

-

$12tf 00 187 .50 30 00 82 00 30 00 82 00 30 00 30 00 30 00 125 00 31 00

:n oo
00 00 00. 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

-

31 31 61 61 61 61 31 61 31 61 92 31 62 144 31

61 00

-

-

. -

-

.

-

-

oo
00 00

00

:n oo

-

-·

156 125 187 125 61 61 61 61 '30 30 261 183 133 92

75 00 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 25 00 00 00

61 00

Bep. No. 43.
LIST-Continued.
C1>mpen11tion. ']{e·r and quarter. N amo and rank.
... ·-- ·-·· -··-

81

-

----

.

Additi1>nal.

Arrearagea·

1840, 4th quarter Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do "' Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1841, Jst quarter Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do
~

-

-

Vo
Do

Do· Do
J)o

Do

-6

Lieut. Patterson J. K. Mitchell Lieut. Todd Mid. Porter D. F. Dulaney A. A. Holcomb F. Lowry J.B. Dalo W. B. Whiting H. S. Stell wugon .T. J. Boyle H. C. Flagg S. Sharpe, surgeon 0. H. Berryman H. Moor C. W. Chaunce;r Mid. D. D. Porter Lieut. G. M. Bache Mid. R. Bache Lieut. Young 1'. J. Pugo Mid. C. W. Morris T. A. M. Cra.\·en Lieut. ·A. W. C. Chandler J. K. Mitchell G. S. Blake Mid. C. W. Morris Dalo A. A. Holcomb 'D. D. Porter J. K. Mitchell - · Lieut. T. R. Gedney Mid. R. Bache Licnt. W. S. Young Mid. C. W. Patterson D. D. Porter Lient. Todd Mid. W, H. Whiting A. A. Holcomb T. A. M. Craven 1'. J. Page T. A. Je11ldns C. W. Marris S.C.Howan

-

~

-

$31 92 274 31 31 31
65

-

-

-

-

·-

-

-

90 29 97 98 158 40 72 103 77 61 61 92 153 125 77 187 6l

00 . 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00

-

-

-

-

Gl 00

-

-

-

'

.

-

-

-

-

209 00 !H 00 89 00 92 00 31 00 31 00 282 53. 59 00 59 00 120 00. 28 00 120 00 27 00 28 00 187 50.
125 00

.

125 00 59 00 304 00

82

Rep. No.
7"

.\l'a.
Compons~1ion.

LIST-Continued.

Year and quarter.

Name and rank.

.
1841, Ist quarter Do " Do Do Do Do 1841, 2d quarter Do Do

. . . -

1

AJJitional.

Arrearoges .

Do

Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1841, 3d quarter Do Do Do Do Do Do

.-

. -

Vo

-

Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do no Do

-

Lient. G. S. Blake Mid. C. M. Patterson W. B. Whiting Lieut. W. Chandler Mid. I>. D. Porter Lieut. J. K. Mitchell H. Bache A. A. Holcomb Mid. Cr.a,wford Lieut. W. S. Young Mid. Patterson Lieut ..T. B. Dale Mid. K Jenkins T. A. M. Craven T. J. Page T. A. Jc11kins \V. B. Whiting Lieut. T. R. Gedney C. W. Morris G. M. Bache D. D. Porter J. K. Mitchell S. Sharpe, surgeon W. Chaudler E. G. Parrott II. S. Stellwagen J. K. Mitchell G. M. Bache ' Thos. H. Stevens 0. Todd D. n; Po'rter R. Bache W. A. Bartlett H. A. Holcomb H. H. Lewis A. A. Holcomb D. D. Porter D. H. CrawforJ C. P. Patterson A. A. Holcomb C'. W. Morris

-

$90 00
31 00

31 00
90 31 59 31 122 120 61 91 150 187 187 125 2.5 91
221

-

-

-

00 00 00

00
00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 00 00 16 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

-

-

-

-

-

91 30 30 30 75 91 75 75

61
(Jl 75 122 61 91 75 31 106 . 31 62 26 92 30 02 92 02 92

DO
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

-

Do Do Do

H. Bache

-

J.·n.

W. B. Whiting
Dale

-

-

-

-

.. -

-

. Jlcp .. No. .43.
LIST-Continued.

-·
Year and qullrter. Namo and rank.

Compenaation. Addiliono.1. \ Arreirlge1.

E. Jenkins J. Mooney Do Do - S. Johnson Do S. Sharpe, surgeon Do - W. S. Young 0. Todd 'I>o W. A. Bartlett Do W. Chandler Do Do - R. C. Cogdell Do - Thos. H. Stevens Do - 'l'. H.. Gedney Do G. S. lllake Do - T .·J. Pago Do - T. A. Jenkins T. A. M. Craven ~-~41, 4th quarter E. G. Parrott '" · Do H .·T. Stellwagen Do Do - G. M. Bache Do - J. K. Mitchell Do - W. Bartlett Do - A.A.Holcomb Do - C. P. Patterson S. Sharpe, surgeon Do R. C. Cogdell Do Do - S D. La vnlette Do - E. Jenkins Do - A. A. Holcomb Do ,. - S. Sharpe, surgeon C. P, Patterson Do W. Bartlett Do ,I (}. S. Blake Do :1 Do " - R. Bache Do - G. M. Bache Do - S. Johnson W. S. Stell wugen Do Do· I D. D. Porter D. D. Porter Do Do - C. P. Patterson A. A. Holcomb Do . H. H. Lewis Do . · H. H. Lewis Do Do ..·' . E. G. Parrott J. IL Mitchell Do· Do - C. W. Morris
1841, 3d quarter

-

-

-

-

on
00 00 00 00 00 00 00 75 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 75 00 00 00 OU 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00

-

$"l2

1 ~5 00 1.· '3 00

-

-

-. -

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-. -

92 153 92 92 92 37 92 15fi 418 125 125 92 92 92 92 31 31 31 31 39 76 3!l 30 30 30 30 15°6 92 92
92

143182

-

~

-

.

. .

.

~

92 92 30 31

:n oo
61 !12 92 !l'.! 92

-

.

-

-

'84

·nep: No. 43.
LIST-Continued.
Compensation.

Year and quarter.

Name and rank.

.
1841, 4th quarter

Additional ·

Arrei.r1g111.

Do Do Do Do Do

..

-

J.B. D.ale . S. Sharpe, surgeon O.Todd W. S. Young W. Chandler T. A.Jenkins

-

I

-

-

-

$92 31 92 92 92 125

00 00 00 00 ' 00 00.

T. J.... SMITH, Register.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

Register's fJjfice, June 9, 1842 .

.11 list of all persons, oflier than officers qfthe navy and army, employed in the coast aurvey,Jrom its commencement to the 31st Decembe,., 1841, tM order or orders under whicli they were employed, and the amount of compensation, regular and extra, paid to each.
--Compenntion paid.

Year 1 nd quarter.
-·-·

N Knies of the persons. Regular.

I

Extra.

Arreara1et1.

1811 to 1818 . 1832 1833 1833, 2d qr. -

D0

.

D0 D0 1833, 4th qr. . D0 . D0 183&, ll:1t qr. . D0 . D0 D0 D0 D0 D0

1839, :~d qr. -

-

-

F. R. Hassler F. R. Hassler F. R. Hassler R. J. Livingston J. Ferguson · .T. Ferguson · .T. IL Livingston E. Blunt . E. Blunt J. Fergnson R. J. Livingston Charles Reuard Hngo L. Dickins F. R. Hassler R. Blunt Chas. Renard J. Ferguson H. L. Dickins

$29,310 94 - 1,125 00

.
.

-

. . -

4,500 144 325 512 171 477 512 512 171 356 95 1,125

00 34 59 00 06 16 25 25 06. 65 58 00 509 45 351 81 506 02

$125 00
84

I

I

so
·,;

..

iss s;

·125 00 \l

.' ,,,

ReP· No.
·'

~3 ..

Bl,,
·'

LIST,,_CO)ltinu~d.

y ear and quarter,

·
Regular.

. Compen1ation paid. Extra. Arrearagu.

N 11m1J1 of the person·.

1836, 2d qr. Do Do Do Do 1836, 3d qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 183fi,4thqr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1837, 1st qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1837, .2d qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do· Do

-

-

-

-

-

H. L. Dickins C.M.Eakin F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson Edm. Blunt H. L. Dickins W. Wurdeman Tho. McDonnell Sam. Hein F. R. Hassler F. Gerdes C. M. Eakin E. Blunt C. Renard James Ferguson H. I... Dickins C. M. Eakin F. R. Hassler James J?erguson Eclm. Blunt C. M. Eakin Sam. Hein -. F. H. Gerdes C. Renard W. \Vurdeman Thos. McDonell H. L. Dickins F .. R. Hassler Jam es Ferguson C. M. Eakin C. Rcnnrd Wm. WUl'deman S. Hein Thos. McDonnell F. H. Gerdes John Fnrley Sam. Hein F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson C. M. Eakin C. Renard W, lloyce T. W. Werner F. H. Gerdes

-

-

-

-

-

$281 44 842 85 1,125 00 509 45 .509 45 286 98 239 62 .115 30 433 00 1,125 00 138 38 532 56 515 05 355 68 515 04 283 66 126 06 1,125 00 515 04 512 25 215 188 355 219 173 279 1,125

$84 .30' 124 31 90 °16

-125 68
I

-~

.

4J)

,

125 68 106 51 125 68 125 00 195 83

-

-

-

-

04 53 68 11 96 11 00

505 ilS

123 28

-

$6,494 5

-

-

-

522 43 348 19 251 42 247 42 201 42 150 00 .500 00 200 00 1,500 00 1,000 00 750 00 750 00 395 60 375 00 37.5 00

Rep. No. 43 ..
LlST-Continued:
'

·
Names of the penon£. Regular.

Compcneation paid. Extra. Arre11rage11.
-----~---·-

Year and quarter"

1837, .2d .qr.

Do Do Do Do Do Do
1_837, 3d

·-

Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do

qr. -

-

Do
Do Do Do Do

1837, 4th qr.

-

-

Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do l 837, Sd and 4th qrs. John Farley 1888, Jst qr. F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson Do E. Blunt Do

-

-

-1

.

-

-

H. L. Dickins Thos. McDonnell C. Preuss ,'I'. P. Dornenburg W. '\Vurdeman W. Jacobi H. Paulson Thos. McDonnell Sam'! Hein F. W.. Werner F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson Edm'd Blunt C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M. Boyce F. H. Gerdes H. L. Dickins C. Preuss J. P. Dornenburg W. Wurdeman W. Jacobi w. Hill w. Hill F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson E. Blunt C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M. Hoyce H. L. Dickins F. H. Gerdes T. W. Werner C. Preuss T. P. Dornenburg S. Hein Thomas McDonnell W. Wnrdtiman W. Jacobi -

-

-

-

-

$375 00 150 00 125 00 164 04 2.'i2 50 65 00 65 00 177 67 22.2 75 375 00 1,500 00 1,000 00
695 65

i-

-·

-

-

-

-

.

-

-

750 750 500 375 375 375 200 .252 197 100 10 1,500 1,000 1,000 750 750 500 375 375

00 00 00 60

o'o
00 00 57 50 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 50 00 36 62 00 00 00 00 00 00

315
378 .200 231 168 208 195 1,000 1,500 1,000 1,000

-

-

-

-

-

Rep.

N~.

43 ..

LIST-Continued. .
CompenBBllon paid. Yl!ar and
qQa~ter.

.

Arrearqu.

N amea of the persons. Regular. Extra.

1838, 1st qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 1838, 2d qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do 838, 3d qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do J)o Do Do Do

-

-

-

-

Do
Do

. -

C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M. Boyce T. W. Werner C. Preuss H. L. Dickins F. H"'Gerdes T. P. ·nornen bmg Sam'I Hein W. Wurdeman ' Wm. Jacobi Tho. McDonnell John Farley Thos. McDonnell W. 'Werner F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson E. Blunt C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M.Boyce H. L. Dickins C. Preuss F. H. Gerdes T. P. Dornenburg S. Hein W. Wurdeman Wm. Jacobi John Farley Chi'!. Prenss T. W. Werner F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson E. Blunt C. Eakin C. Renard W. M. Boyce J. ,J. S. Hassler F. H. Gerdes H. L. Dickins T. P. Dornenburg Sam'I Hein · W. Wurdeman W. Jacobi

-

-

-

-

-

-

..

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

$750 00 150 00 500 00 375 00 375 00 375 00 375 00
200 00

251 43 251 42 195 00 201 43 500 00 202 00 315 00 1,500 00
1,000 00

.

.

-

-

-

1,000 00 150 00 750 00 500 00 375 00 315 00 375 00 200 00 252 00 245 14 195 00 500 00 62 50 375 00 1,500 .00 l,000 00. 1,000 00 150 00 750 00 500 00 478 26 375 00 375 00 200 00 222 86 230 28 195 00

·

-

.,,.....,.,,_...

Rep.

No.

43>"
·-.

LIST--Cantinued.
Compenndon pai1l.

Year and quarler.

N 11ine1 of the per1ona. Regular. Extra. Arrearages.

1839, 1st qr.
Do Do Do Do Do Do Do

Do 1838, 4th qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do

1838, $d qr.

-

-

-

-

-.

-

-

Do
Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do D6 Do

-

-

-

1839, 2d qr.

Do

-

Tho. McDonnell .John Farley F. R. Hassler James Ferguson E.Blunt C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M.Hoyce J. J. S. Hassler H. L. Dickins T. W. Werner F. H. Gerdes S.Hein Thos. McDonnell W. Wurdemari T. P. Dornenbnrg W. Jacobi John Farley F. R. Hassler Jas. Ferguson E. Blunt C. M. Eakin W. M. Boyce J. J. S. Hassler C. Renard F. H. Gerdes H. L. Dickins T. P. Dornenburg S.Hein W. Wurdeman Tho. McDonnell W ..facobi T. W. Werner John Farley F. R. Hassler Jas. Fergusen E. jlunt C. . Eakin C. Renard W.M. Boyce J. J. S. Hassler F. H. Gerdes H. L. Dickins J. P. Dornenburg

-

-

-

~

-

-

-

-

-

.

-

~

-

-

$182 80 500 00 1,500·00 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 oo· 750 00 500 00 500 00 391 50 315 00 375 00 226 79 184 33 217 71 200 00 197 50 500 00 I,500 00 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 500 00 500 00 750 00 375 00 375 00 252 00 251 43 .... 251 43 .201 43 192 50 375 00 500 00 1,500 0(1 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 750 00 500 00 500 00 375 00 375 00 250 00

-

...........

I

-

Rep.,No.

r4S:~·

SIJ':

LIST-Contiiiuea;
Compen1ation paltl. Year and quattor. N11mea of the pcraona. Regular.
,_.
Ell:tra.

,,
1839, 2d qr. Do Do Do Do Do 1839, 3d qr. · Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do. Do I>o ' Do Do Do Do 1839, 4th qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do no Do Do Do Do Do Do , 1840, 1st qr. Do Do Do Do Do

Arre1111ge1.

----T. W. Werner $375 00 S. Hein 290 00 -=Tho. McDonnell 191 72 Wm. Jacobi 195 00 W. Wurdeman 24.4 00 John Farley 500 00 Tho. McDonnell 184 66 S. Hein 280 89 T. W. Werner 3i5 00 F. R. Hassler - ' 1,.500 00 J. Ferguson 1,000 00 E. Blunt ' 1,000 00 C. M. Eakin 750 00 C. Renard 750 00 W. M.Boyco 500 00 F. H. Gerdes 375 00 T. P. Dornenburg 250 00 W ..Jacobi 197 50 W. Wurdeman 217 14 J. J. s. Hassler 500 00 .T ohn Furlev 500 00 H. L. Dickins, 3d qr. 375 00 H. L. Dickins 125 00 H. L. Dickins 125 00 S.Hein .... 270 60 Tho. McDounoll 192 85 W. Wurdeman 252 57 W. Jacobi 197 50 F. R. Ha~sler 1,500 00 .las. Ferguson 1,000 00 E. Blunt 1,000 00 C. M. Ea.kin 750 00 C. Renard 750 00 W. M. Boyce 500 00 J ..T. S. Hassler 500 00 F. H. Gerdes 375 00 John ~'arley 500 00 · H. L. Dickins 125 00 H. L. Dickins 125 00 F. R. Hassler 1,500 00 James Ferguson 1,000 00 E. Blunt 1,000 00 W. M. Boyce 500 00 J. J. S. Hassler 500 00

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

·

Do

-

Rep. No .. ~a.
LIST-Continued.
Compensation· paid. Y earnd
quar~r.

Names of the per10111.

Regular.
··-··---·

Extra.

Anearagu.

1840, 1st qr.

Do Do Do Do

Do

Do
1840, 2d qr.

Do Do Do

Do Do

Do

Do
Do Do

Do Do Do Do Do Do
Do

1840, 3d qr.

Do

Do

Do Do

Do Do

Do Do Do Do

no

Do Do

1840, 4th qr.

Do Do Do
Do

Do

H. L. Dickins T.W.W erner Thomas McDonnell S. Hein W. Wurd eman William Jacobi John Farley Thomas McDonnell T.W.W erner F.R.Hassler J. Ferguson E. Blnnt C.M.Eakin W.M.B oyce F.H.Ge rd es H. L. Dick ins J. J. S. H assler S. Hein W. Wur de11ian W. Jacob i Johu Farley H. L. Dick ins Thomas l\IcDonnell T.W.Werner F.R.Hassler James Fe rgusou E. Blunt C. M.Ea kin C. Renard W.M.B oyce J. J. S. H assler F. H. Ge rd es John Far Jey Samuel H ein W. Wnrd eman W. Jacob i L. Mulle r F.Jf.Hassler James Fe rgUBQll C. Blunt C. M.Ea kin C. Renar d John Farley W. M. Boyce

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

$125 00 375 00 202 00 302 00 252 00 195 00 500 00 202 00 375 00 1,500 00 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 500 00 375 00 375 00 500 00 302 00 252 00 195'.00 500 00 375 00 J93 00 375 00 1,500 00 l,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 ·750 00 500 00 500 00 37,5 00 500 00 293 43 252 51 197 50 168 00 1,500 00 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 750 00 500 00 500 00

~

-

.r

lrep. No. ·4-!'t
LIST-Continued.
Compeneation paid. Y"Car and quartor. Nu.mes oftbe pouonP. Regulur.
··---

----- -----------·-l.8401 4th qr.

Extr.a.

Arrearagee.

Do Do

Do

J. J. S. Hn ssler 'I'. W. We rner F. H. Gerd es H. L. Dieldm
S. Hein

-

-

Do Do Do Do 1841, 1st qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do ... Do Do Do

W. Wurde man W. Jacobi L. Muller 'l'homas IVkDonnell -

S. Hein L. Muller

F. H. Gerd es

W. Jacobi W. Werde man ThomasM <'Donnell -

-

-

F. R. Hassler James Fe1·guson

.

-

Do Do Do Do Do
Do

1841, 2d qr.

Do Do Do
J)o

Do

Do Do
Do
1841, 3d qr.

Do Do

Do

Do

Do Do
Do

Do

F. R. Hass ler
L. Muller
J. Ferguson E. Blunt

E. Blt1nt C. M. Eak in W. M.Hoy ce J ..T. S. Ha ssler H: L. Dieldns C. Renard John Fnrle y L. Muller W. Jacobi W. Werde man Samuel He in F. R. Hass ler James Ferguson E. Blunt C. M. Eak in C. Uenurd W.M.Bo yce J. J. S. Ho.ss\er F. H. Gerd es T.W.Wern er, I &2qr. John Fnrle y H. L. Dick ins, 2d qr. J. J. S. Hassler

-

:I
-

-

-

-

-

-

. .

00 375 00 375 00 375 00 282 47 250 86 197 50 150 37 184 8::/ 288 86 248 40 192 50 251 43 201 43 375 00 1,500 00 1,000 00 1,000,00 750 00 .500 00 500 00 375 00 750 00 500 00 199 98 195 00 249 14 302 00 ,, 1,500 00 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 750 00 .500 00 500 00 375 00 150 00 500 00 375 00

~500

166 66 66 66
1,500 00 1,000 00 1,000 00

Do

Do

-

-

R.ep. No. 43. ·
LIST......Continued.
Compen.alion paid.

Year and .quarter.

N ome1 of the per111>01.

Regular.

E.xtra.

Arrearagea.

1841, 3d qr. DB Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do ;Do Do 1841, 4th qr. Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do Do M

-

-

-

-

C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M. Boyce John Farley H. L. Dickins F. H. Gerdes T. W. Werner S. Hein W. Wurdeman Thomas McDonnell J. J. S. Hassler L. Muller W. Jacobi L. Muller S. Siebert, engraver T. A. Rolle, do L. Muller. W. Wurdeman W. Jacobi F. R. Hassler J. Ferguson E. Blunt C. M. Eakin C. Renard W.M. Boyce T. W. Werner F. H. Gerdes S. Hein Thomas McDonnell I-I. J·. Dickins S. Siebert, engraver T. Rolle John FarleyJ. J. S. Hassler L. Muller

-

-

/

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

$750 00 750 00 500 00 500 00 375 00 375 00. 375 00 282 69 252 57 187 96 166 66 66 66 197 50 66 66 300 00 216 66 66 66 252 57 197 50 1,500 00 1,000 00 1,000 00 750 00 750 00 500 00 375 00 375 00 277 14'· 198 34 375 00 150 00 108 34 500 00 500 00 66 66

----

~--

......

--

TazAsUBY DEPARTMENT,

·

T. L. SMITH, RPgister.

· . Register's Office, June 9, 1842.

·Rep. No. 43 .
.fl list of all officers of 'he a1·my employed in the coas~ survey; their army , puy and emoluments, in dollars and cents, whilst so employed; and the additional pay of each for service in the coast survey,fi'om· 1816 to tlie 31st December, 1841. ·
Year. ,

.

·

Name and rank.

Army pay.

Addit.ional pay.

Total.

1816 1817 1818 1818 1818 1818 1832 1832 1833 1833 1833 1833 1834 1835 1836 1837 1838 1839 1840 1841

Major J. J. Abert Major J. J. Abert Major J. J. Abert Lieutenant W. G. McNeill Lieutenant J. A. Adams Lieutenant J. R. Vinton Lieutenant M. D. Mackay Captain W. H. Sw'ift · Lieutenant John Mackay Lieutenant J. V. Bomford Captain W. H. Swift Lieutenant A. D. Mackay Captain W. H. Swift Captain W. H. S'!Vift Captain W. H. Swift Captain W. H. Swift Captain W. H. Swift Captain W. H. Swift Captain W: H. Swift Captain W. H. Swift

.

. $1,545 20 . 1,616 40 . 1,592 40 - 689 20 - 689 20 - 689 20 - 963 60
. .

SS57 912 327 156 183 253 76

.
.

837 90 764 96 1,160 16 1,067 947 948 947 1,363 1,926 1,916 1,829

-

-

. .

80 00 292 so 00 00 111 4,648 13 93 111 2,sso 67 80 ·2,868 52 80 ·2,148 42 40 ·1,919 27

267 00 929 47 7 50

-

20 50 50 25 75 75 25

.. -

$1,909 '2,52.8 1,919 845 872 942 76 963 873 '\ l,OSl 2,089 7 1,067 947 1,240 5,595 4,194 4,795 4,065 3,748

40 90 90 45 95 95 25 60 90 96 63 50 80 00 80
l3 60 s2 22
67

--

------·----------------. --- --·----·· Include1.hi1 commil·ion on di1bur1ement1.

T. L. SMITH,
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

Register~

· Register's OJ!ice, Juue 9, 1842.

.Rep. No. 43.
TRJlAllURY. DEPARTMENT, June 20, 1842. Sia : I have. the honor to tr;nsmit the following commu'uication,· in ~n

swer to the inquiries made in your letter of the 31st ult.imo, in behalf of the sper;ial committee "on the coast survey." First. Respecting "the contract between the Government and F. R. Hassler, superintendent of coast survey," of which a copy is asked by the committee, I beg leave respectfully to refer to the accompanying papers, (marked A, B, C, and D,) as containing all the information iu possession of the Department, in reference to· the engagement of the services and the terms on which Mr. Hassler undertook to perform the work, in the year 1816, and on its revival in 1832. · · Second. In reference to the inquiry," under what authority was Mr. F. R. Hassler employed to make a set of measures for the United States?" I would respectfully refer the committee to the copy of a communication, herewith sent, from Mr. Secretary Ingham, under date of the 30th -of April, 1831, (marked C,) by which it appears he was employed by the Treasury Department, with the sanction of the President, to superintend the malJUfacture of weights and measures fur all the custom-houses of the United States. Third. In regard to the inquiry, ''when was the work commenced, and how much has been expended, yearly, from its commencement np to the pr.ese.nt time, specifying the sums, to whorn paid, and for whnt purpose?" it is- to be remarked, in answer to the first branch of this inquiry, that on the 29th of May, 1830, the Senate of the Unitud Stutes adop1ed a resolution directing the Secretary of the Treusmy "to cu use n comparison to be made of the standards of weight and measure now usod at the principal custom-houses in thf:' United States, and report to the Senate at the next session of Congress." To comply with the 1·equireme11ts of this resolution, it appears Mr. Secretary Ingham deemed it oxpc<lient to engage the services of Mr. Hassler to make the necessary comparisous, as shown by the accompanying copy of his l.ctrer to that 3e11tle11rnn, dated 12th June, 1830, (marked ll,) and invitiug him to come' on to Wa.,liington to perform , that duty. To institute the comparisons mentioned'; .it became uecessary to .reqnire the collectors of the principal ports to forward their standards to Washington, which occasioricd some unavoidaLle delay iu the commencement of the work. Tbc proper tests and compariso11s were accordingly made bv .Mr. Hassler, awl the determined resulls were i;uhmitted to the Senate, In reports from the Departnwnt, 1111der dates of the 3d of March, 1831, and 20th June, 1832, which will he found in Senate documents, 2d session of 21st Congress, ~d volume, document 74, uud Executive documents, 1st session 22d Congress, volume 6, <locumeut 2!J!I. As the results of these comparisons exhibiteil serious discrepancies be~ tween the standards used at the respective ports, the Departmeut gave directions to Mr. Hassler to s11peri11te11d, in this ciry, the manufacture of standard weights and measures for all the cnsto1n-houses. These directions were giveu in April, 1831, bnt, as mauy arrangements had to be made before the work of fabricating these slaw.lards could be properly entered upon, such as the collection of nial<!rial:,; aud the prepamtion of requisite machinery, some time clnpsed Leforn it wcrnt into complete operation. There is no data in the Department by which the precise time whc11 lhe work was commenced can be fixed. In reply to so much of the second branch of the inqui~¥ under consi<lern·

. Rep. No. 43.

·95

tion relates to the amo1,mt "expended yearly, from its commencement,'" I beg leave to refer to the statement prepared by the Register of the Trea,.ury, and transmitted to the committee on the 15th instant, In complhmce with the request of Mr. Aycrigg, a member of the c~mmittee. Fourth. As to the inquiry, "from what source or sources have the funds. thus used been derived?" 1 have to state that the fnnds have been derived from the accruing revenue, under the anthority believed to be given in the 21st section of the general collcctiou act of the 2d of March, 1799, requiring surveyors of the customs, from time to time, aud particularly ou the first Mondays in January and July, in each year, to examine nnd try the weights,.. measures, nnq other instruments, nsed in ascertaining·thc duties on imports, with standards, "to be provided by each collector, at the public expense,. for that' purpose." The construction given by the Department to this pl'.Ovision of law seems lo have boeu sa11ctioned by a special committee of the House of Representatives, of which the Bon. Horace Binney, of Penn· sylvania, was chairman, us shown by their report, No. 132, vol. 1, second session of the .23d Congress, which closes with the following resolution, which was adopted by the House : "Rewllled, That it is high I~ cxpcdiem that the Treasury Department should complete, with ns little delay as practicable, the fabrication of standards of weights and measures, for the supply of tho .different cusrom-houses of the united States, upon the principles set forth in the reports of the Ser.retnry of the Treasury to the Senate 011 the 3d of March, l8:H, and 20th June, 1832." Both Houses of Cougrcss subsequently sanctiou~d the source from which the expeuditures were made, by a joint l'esolutiou of tlw Hth .Tune, 1836,... directing the Secrctury of the Treusnry to finish u co1i1plete set of all the weights nud measures ndopteJ a1' f.ta11dards, fur the respective States; and by the 7th :>ection of the oct "for tltc support of the military academy," &c.,.. passed the 7th July, 1838, tile Secretary of the Treasury ii directed to cause to be made, under 1he snpcrintendouce of Mr. Hassler. one standnrd balance for each State, and, when completed, to be dclin·red to the respective Governors, for the use of ench of the Stntes. Fifth. In regnrd io tlie it1quiry, "how muuy·complete sets of weight,c; and measures' hn".C been deliven1d to the Treasury Depart111e11t, and how have they been dispol'ed of?" I heg leave, iu r111swer, to refer the committee to the statement hernwith seur, (marked D,) by which it will be found tha.t two Jrnudrnd a11d ~cve11 set!! of lurgc weights, forty-four sets ofouiwe weights, and forty-one yurd measures, ham been delivered by Mr. Hasslerto the Depar:ment; thnt, of the former, there htt\'O beendistributed to custom-houses and States, &c., oue hundred awl ninctet'll, of the .second twenty-three, a11d of the !utter thirty-four. ' Sixth. Jn respect to the i11quiry, "when is it probnblo the work will bcfinished?" I would remark, that the Department is not possessed of such· information us to enable it to iix any precise time whe11 the \V(~1·k will be finished; but, Ml it is iuformod that the capacity meatiurcs ·. amJ tho balnuceof the ounce weights nnd yurdi;, lmvLi boon fabricateJ, and are now undergoing their final co111pnriso11, it is 11ot i;npposed that much time will elapse before their final completio11. It is nuderstooJ that the balances designed for the States arc also in a stale of forwardnrss. It is Lkcmod proper to observe, in conClusion, that it is not cm~templatcd to furnish tho respective·

as

.96

. Rep. No. 43 .

custom-houses with balances or·o11nce weights, they being designed for the respective States alone. I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient i;ervant, , W. FORWARD,

Secretary of the Trea1ury.
Hon: F.
MALLORY,

Chairman of Select l'ommi/tee on Coast Survey.

WASHINGTO~, July 12, lSl6; Srn : Herewith I have the honor to delivP.r the more detailed articles of the agreement between the Treasury Department and myself, relativ:~ to the survey of the coast, as desired by the letter of the Secretary of the 'Treasury, under the 5th instant. You will judge if I have expressed myself clearly upon the subjects under <:ansideration, or not, and dispose, in consequence, as you fiud most proper. I have the honor to be, with respect anp esteem, sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

F. R. HASSLER;
- - - . JoNES, Esq.,

Treasury Depm·tment, 111ashington City.

.llrtirles of enga!{ement between the. Treasury Department of /lie Uni/eel Slates and F. R. Hassler, relative to the survey of the coast of the United States.
A. Mr. Hassler engages to bestow all his time; labor, and attention, to the work of the survey; as well to make, himself, the principal part of the general large triangulation, and the conseq11cut calculations, as to superintend and direct the establishment of the observatories, and the otlicers of engineers, or naval officers, who will be eugaged under his orders, in the detail parts of the work, and give them pro_pcr instructions to that' effect, according to the plan proposed by him, under the 1$th May, 1816. D. He will, to thii.t purpose, have the use of such instruments and books <>f the. collection he has procured, or which are ytlt to he procured, for the use in this work, as he may find necessary for his objects, anti give directions relative to those which are to be used by the officers un~er his direction. C. He will be provided from tho corps of engineers, on bis appl!cation ·to the general of said corps, with the following assistance to his own works, or such part of the same as he may deem necessary, according to ·circumstances, viz: 1. Two officers of engineers, topographical or others. 2. Some cadets of. said corps, in unmber according to tho circnmstancer. 3. Twelve men of said corps, for the most part artificers, with corporal or sergeant. . · 4. One large baggage wagon, with four horses, or two smaller ones, ns he may require, with the necessary drivers to them. 5. Two saddle horses.

Rep. No. 43.

97

6. ·Tents for the accommodation of himself, the above·mentioQed odicin,. tadets, and men, and the shelter of the instruments. · · 7. The nece11sary field utem1ils, as well for the personal accommotlation of the .compal1y as for tho works occllrring, not comprehending Mr; Ha.II· ler's privRte eqnipm~nt. . . : · D. Under Mr. Hnssler's orders, tho officer first in rank ~ccompa'nying him will have' the chief command of the above military assistance, and act a1 treasurer upon the fonds, which will be given to said officer to defray all the .expenses of.a public nature occurring t>r ordered by Mr. Hasaler; and aaiQ. officer will render account upon these funds to the 'rreasury Depart. 1ment. E. T~e following are to be con~idered expenses of a public nature, vi2: 1:. The keeping in order. and securing from injury of the in1trunlfmta· belon,giug to the Government, their stands and boxes, aud 'tho fitting theltl up for ttse. · · 2·.. Speh additions t.o the collection of instrnments and books aa may be found necessary by Mr. Hnsslc~r in the progress of the work;··rwell 10 complete the collection from 1ime to time as to furnish a sufficient uunibcr of them for the use of the detnil snrvcyol's. · 3. The construction of the signals uud signal lamps, and their attend· ance nu<l pr_otection · .· · .. 4.. Tbc preparations of the stations, for the convenience-of obscryaliona, and the securing of them for future utility. · · · 5. The transport of the instruments and the baggage of the company. . 6. All ~xpe11ses consequent or relnting to tho keeping in order and . .. maintenancu of the military assistance stated in article E. 7 .: All 'expenses for the establishment of the permane,nt or temporai:y observatories, to be ·erected according to Mr. Hassler's plans. : 8. The printing of blank formulaR of journals and <'alcnlations, (ur the detail surveyors, if such are found advantageous, as it ls probable. ·. ' . F. Mr..Hassler will receive .· as compensation for his personal work in hi· per~ the 111urvE'y; his superintendence and direction of the whole, 11nd aonal expenses consequent thereof, ihe sum of five thousand dollars an. m.ially, to be pnia quarterly, on his drafts upon the Treasury Deparunetit, .ot otherwise. · · · . . ... G. It understood that tha work shall not be curried ·on in tho· form of a l:iureart. or office; but that Mr. Hassler himself, as well H the otficera unller his direction, shall execute such work as devolves upon them, or are cmlered to. them in tho field, by defraying their own personal flxpen1os, ~nela~ home in their private quarters. Therefore, no n_ccouut& will be ad. mittea 'Upon room hire, fire wol'ld, stationery, or smaller drawiug imple· m~nts, not provided by the collection of the Governmeur. Tho· abov~. niel'ltitihei.l compensation is to be considered compensaling all his pem>hal expenses, in his absence from home, in the work of the stuvey, and tho items here mentioned, required for his personal use in this work, excln. live ·onty·of the ex'peuses stated as of a·Jmblic no.tme iu article E. H. The appoiritmeuts robe made in future, to officers nndertalring sep· arate. parts of the worll:, Will be fixed so as to comprehend the ~amo articl~s, and to ·1olll'iw the same· principles . .I. ,If, therefore, Mr. Hassler shall at. any time require officer· to work under bis direc~ion in his quarter11, it will be at his option, and entirely a '. 7 .

nil

is

98

R~p.

Nu. 43.

d,ersutod to:execute his house work,in his own qnarters.

matter of his private arrangement ; otherwise, every otficer. is lo l)c \10 ·

K. From these regulations ar.1 excepted : , I. All expenditures relating to the use of vessels or shipping, for soundings and the nautical part of the survey, for which proper arrangetn.epts will be made in ~ime by the Treasury Department, i1pon propos\tioris to rhis effect; · · · · 2. The' clear executed copies of the maps und charts, either general or spe~ial; which will be reqnired by tho proper authorities, or prepared for· . publi~hing ; for which proper draughtsmen will be appointed, ab~ paid· according _to separate arrangements, to be rriade with men who ·may have· applied to such works with particular success. · ·3. All expenses and consequences of engraving, printing, publishin$', or executing such number of copir.s of the maps or chnrts as may be required for Jhi11 purpose, or desired by the Government, or the officers to whom it may belong. · F. R. HASSLER~
WA1nt'1'GT01', July 12, HH6.

Tu:Asunv D1:PAR'r.MENT, .fiugust 1816. Sm: The correspondence and.documents relative to your being employed as superintendent of the survey of the coasr, under the act of Congress respecting that object, have beeu submitted to the President, ana your serYices are engaged, 011 the following terms: · L The ·whole of your time, labor, talents, and attention, shall, be given to the -work, as well in' relation to the superintendence of the duties to be performed by military or naval officers and assistants, .or by draughtsmen and engineers, as in relation to the parts of the work which JI.re to bo executed by yourself. 2. You .will be provided with competent assistance of officers and men, froin the corps of engineers and from the navy, with tents and field equipage, with baggage wagons and hor!iles; and you will have the (ree us~ o( the public instruments and books, for the purposes of the survey. . · s. The party of C!>fficers, men, and assistants, accompanying you, will be. ordered to conform to your instructions ; and all the incidental expenses o! the survey 1 which are of a public nature, will be defrayed by the Govern· ment; .but your own personal' expenses are to be defrayed by you, :whe,tb(tr you are employed at home or abroad. . , 4. Funds will be placed, from time to time, upon your requisition, ln the bands of the chief officer accompanying you, to be disbursed, upon y~u~ order, in the payment of the expenses of a public nature, and to b.e a(:~ cbtinted for by him at the Treasury ouce at least in every three months·. 5; You will receive, in full for all your services, a compensatioil at the rate of $3,000 per annum, and for your personal expenses an allowance ai the rate of $.2,0'0o per annum, to commence on the 18th day of Jnne, r~na 1 and to be paid quarterly at the Treasury, upon your drafts. · 6. You will make frequent reports of your progress to this Depar.tmeAt, and deposite 'here all the surveys, drafts, notes, charts. maps, journo.11.1, an~ documents, in any wise be!ongin~ to the ~urvey of'the coast ; and yoµ will return the public instruments arid books to such place as shall be dire,cte4, when they·are no longer required for the business of'the su~vey. ·

3:

Tiep~ .No. 4~ ..
7. If at any time it shoi1ld be uecm1sary to explain. the ~1atl!re and e~· tent of your employm.ent aud engag~ment, you.r commumcallons 'to ,tins .Department, and purtloularly the article~ subnnttcd by you on the lith July, 1816, will be resorted to. . It ouly remains to repeuL the Presiclout 's solicitude for a success(ul and speedy execution of the gi·cul national work wliich is thus confided to you, nud to assure yon of the esteem wi!.h which J am, sir, your most obedient. . servant, . · A. J. DALLAS · .Mr. F. R. lfAssl.Ell. . [.To the eare qf Ro~ert Pa'tlerson, Rsq. 1 Director of the Mint, Phi/a.]
Copy ccr1ified conformable 10 the oriAinal.

F. R. BASSLER.

Upon the articles of agreement between tlie T'reosur.'IJ Departnumt q/ Ike . United Slate.~ and F. R. Hassler, relative to tlie-su,.vey of the coa.tt qf t lie United States.
1. Mr. Hassler engages to undertake the <lirection of the survey of the coast of tho United States, acc(lrdiug to tho law to that effect of 1807, and the act to put the some in activity, passed in 1832, as well by performing such of the principal parts of the i;amo as will require his l\Wn personal work, as by directing .and snperintendiug tlie work of such officers of tho nrmy and 1 uavy, and also civil engiueors, a,'J will be appointed, upon his recommendation, in the other parts, nn<l thc detail survey~ tho ~etermina tion of soundings, nnd such like. 2. He will, for that purpose, huvo the use Rnd disposi1ion, for himself or his assistants, of the iusti'uments aud all other necessary implemenrs, Looks; &c., that. have been procured iu time for that purpose, and BUt~h others as will be procme<l snrccs!lively for tho same use. :~. lJ r~ will also be provided with tile proper means of safo conveyance of these instrn1neu1s and otlrnr objects, Pither by land or by water, according to tbc :ll'rangouwnts .which ho will make at propcir limes for that JHlr· pose. 'l. He will rect.·ivo the ussi1>1u11cri ol'such olficors, cadets, mitlt~hipmen, or other men of the 111ilitury or nu val service, ·as. will be uppointc<l upon1hia re::qu13st, and who will he provided with 1111 1heir 11ecess1\ry fieldequiplllllllts, &c. .. 5. All the (l::;~i~tu11ts nn<l n1l'11, milirary, 11avul 1 or civil, that wilt·be,ap. pointed fot· this servi~~e, will bH ordered to L:onform to his iustrnctions and <lil'ections, aud, iu cu$u of tlwfr refu~ul, hu will hnvo tlw liberty to order then11 to report. for other services, or dismi:os thom. ~ 6 · . He will lmve the 1mle a11d free disposition of rho carriagl\s or other means of conveynuec, <llld other ohj11crs or implements 11ppcrtai11ing to tlie eq nipmcuts for 1liis work. , 7. He will h1! pro\·irfod with tents f.n the i11stru111e111s nud for the ac~ommoduti\111 0Chimo.;clfn11d his ussista11ts, with the necessary tools for pre· pnring stutio11s, placi11;:1 si~mtls, and the 01hor necc>ssnry works for the enc:ampmont 011 1hu stn1io11s, aud mending imploint111ts, &c., that might be in

,100

Rep ... No. 43· .

need of fr, the necessary means for signals, and for the preservation of the · ·· .atations of th(l survey. . ".$. Oue of the assistauts will act as accountant for' al\ public expenses ma:de upon the orders of Mr. Hassler, and will receiv.e 'from the appropdatious made for the survey snch snms, at different times, aff shall he agreed upoo. Ho will account for them, at stated times, to·the Treasury Department, for which service he will receive a compensation. · !J ·. All drawing, plotring, execution of maps, or such like, will bi:> done by the a:;sistants, upon Mr. Hnssler's orders, either in their private quarter11 or in an otf.ce, as may Lie judged best adupted to the case; the office expenses will be paid hy_ the nccouuting officer, on public nccouut. 10. All the stationery needed in the work, as well for Mr. Hassler as for any of the assistants, will be provided by tho accounting officer, at public expense, in the field or at home. ll. Officers or engineers, detailed out hy Mr. Hassler for separate works, of detail parts or others, will conform to the instrnctions '" hich they will receive from him upon their work; they will he furnished with such instrllmenls, implements, and assistance, as he will direct ; anll their cxpen· ses of a public nature will be accounted with the accountant abnve stated. They will report to Mr. Hassler, as he will direct; for tlUCh works they will receive adequate compe11satio11. . ' 12. Mr. Hnssler will receive, for compellsation uf his i;ervicos, $3,000 pe.r annum, aud in lien of his private personal expenses $2,000 per annum, to be paid togethr.r quarterly, upon his .draft, bill, or otherwise, unless, in the progress of,the work, he ~hould be obliged to make voyages at greater distanC'es, when an allowance, by the way of mileuge, will be dett:irmined . .I:~. Mr. Hassler will be provided with an ostensible public paper, stating his employment, and the 11ature and object of the same, to support·him in his actions al1d transactions in any part of the co1tntry he may havo fo go for the pnrpose of his work, to serve equally for his assistants aud the peraons employed under him. !". R. HASSLER. ~ASlllNGTON C1TY, .!iuguat 6, 1832.

Instruments, implr.me.nla, and assi.vtancc '>"equired.
1st. These cannot be very essentially different from what·they were in lSl 7. In the present state of the instruments and their a.ccessorlei;it will be be11t to give them under detailed inventory, as stated in Hs place, to thG .. di11posiiio11 of the chief of the work, to take tho best advantage of them that tt>ey will afford, to havo them pnt in as good order as possible, and to allow him to r~place the missing accessories as best he can. 9d. The.carriage made purposely for the transportation of the principal in·truments was sold, but is yet on hand, and can be mado E:erviceable un. til a new oqe may be constrncted, which would most likely delay too long at present. For the other parts of the trausportation it will be easy to get a Jersey wagon, as has been used bnforc. sd. Horses and harness it w,ill be ueccssary to pnrchase-the first strong and aura; tho second simple, b11't strong. The modo of trnnsportation of the ~·trnments by a. proper carriage, mado of a sizo exactly to ser1e ns D. box
.
'

Rep. No. ·Al'~
(or -t~m. and npon springs and thorough.braces, has been found more se~ cure ·and economical for this country than the transportation by hand. 1t admits, therefo1·e,nlso, to redu'Ce. the 11umbe1· of laboring hands for the work of the triangulation. ·llh. The whole party in the work must be supplied with the necessary tents for their encamprnent in the field, and other necessary field equip· mP.nts, besides axes, picknxcs, spades, and othor tools, required for the placing of signals, prepa_ring stations, and keeping every thing in good order. (I have even always such tools with me as are proper for ~ce~ping' the instruments in good order, and repairing lighter accidental damages.) 5th. It must be observed, that the proper provision and arrangement of the ncces~orics, and even the ensl3 of an observer, nre essential ell·ments of nccnrate observation, as well as attentive and intelligent assistants; both favor the uuimpeded nnd propor progress of the work, anJ ure therofora essentially eco11omical. A defo<~tive state of these parts is very detrimental. j6th. It is expected that none of the chronometers will bu inn serviceablo state; tlrnt defect may be supplied by the loan or n second-pendulum clock nt \\Test Point, (of Trn11ghto11's arrange111ent,) made expressly for trnnsport~ .ation, which is not expected to be in mm there; even a. circular instrument of Troughton's, which is there, most likely in the same predicament, might be borrowed with advnutage for tho secondary triangles me11lioned in the proper placn. . . · . 7th. The selection nf tho assistants, in ollicers or other able men, must of courso belong to the chief of tho work; who will recommend them, and 1.hey will reclli ve their appointments from the Department, bnt, if necessary 1 renioved upon the proposition of tho chief of the work. For the pre~ont first beginning, to execute the part stateJ for the irn1b.cdialo work, ·1hreo such person's will only be teqnire<l, whom I wish to namo, besides what nccidental help I shall have to call my sou iu for, on accottnt of his acquaintance wjth the former work. 8th. Tho number of laboring ·men will vary al different times. When the base lines nro mc~smed, fifteen to twenty will be req11irod for the sim. 11!0 triangulations, particnl.a.rly that pl'Opo">ed at present in completion and extension of tho triangnlation mnde in 1817. Six or seven may be suffi. cieut, besiJes the drivers for the carriages nnd what may be needed for de-' tail tria11gulntion!;, if they aro nndcrtakon ~imnltanoonsly . . 9th. The best manne1· of getting this part of tho assistanC'o in laboring ·men is to tako .th~m from tho mili.tary, ~vliero tlrny n:iay be ~asily spared from some garrison or other. Theu· ha.Int and r1~g11la111111 of discipline, and their being plt1cou undor the order.of a11.otficer, introduces m11ch easier tho necess:i.ry regularity, and they stand for their coudncl unuc: proper regnln.tion. 10th. The pay and mnintonanco, in every respect, of tho officerli and men ta.Jeon from the army a1,1tl navy, is i11 all cases to be provided for and paid· hy the army corps to .which thny belt)ng, or the navy i11 geneml, according to tho regnlntions in which they otherwise stuml; so, also, thoy will receivu all, their oquipmouts. They mnst, in ga:Jer.:i.1, ho con~idorcd as coming to this. servico in tho sarne manner us to nny other iu their line to which they rnight b~ ordered. F. H. HASSLER . . W um~GTON Cn·1, .IJ.ugusl 6, 1832

Rep. No. -18.
TnEASURY DEPARTMENT, .Oii.g-ust 9, 1 ss2:

StR : Witli the President's approbation, ;rou hav.e heen appointed to make, under the superintendence of this Department, the survey of tha coast of the United States, directed by the acts of the I01h'Febiuary, 1817, and 10th July, 1832. · ' 'The act last mentioned having authorized the ernployme11t of other per· sons as well as those in the land au<l naval service, such assislants, of either , description, as may be necessary iu tile work, will he provided at yq11r request. Funds will be placed, from time to 1\me, upon yo1tr requisition, in. tho hands of one of yom a::;sistants, "to be di,sbursed for such expeuses of a pub· lie nature as may be properly chargeable to the appropriation for the sur· vey of the coast, and he will render his uccouuts, approved by you, quurterly, to the First Auditor. · Those expenses of the persous in the military and naval service t:m· ployed in the survey, which ure chargeable to military and naval appropti· ations, will he defrayed by the officers of tho respective Departments, and accounted for under the clire~tion of those Departments. You will receive, in full for all your services> a compensation at the rate of $3,000 pe1· annum, and, for all your personal expenses, an allowance at the rate of $1,500 per annum, payable quarterly, to commence 011 the 2d of August, 1832, yon having been employed since that time in the necessary arrangements of the instruments and other preparatory works. It is to be understood, however, that yon will still coutinuo yonr services in the construction of weights und measures for tlie custom-houses, as far as may be compatible with your duties in the coast survey, without a11y other compensation than what is allowed for the coast survey. In' other respects than those indicated by this Jetter, tho terms and nature of your employment will bq the same a::; were fixed by the leller addressed to you by this Depirrtment on the 3d of August, 1816. The plat\ of. operations and methods formerly adopted by yon in 1hc roast survey having been approved of, you will rccon11Henco and continua the work in conformity with them, including 1mch ir1ouificatious as are suggested in yonr report of the Gth i11stant. ' I 11m, respectfnlly, your obcdieut servant,

all

LOUIS McLAl\E, F; R. H.usi:.En, Esr1. '
SccreLm·lJ of the 1'rea~·ur!/·

wAl!IIINOTON CITY, .lltt/,(llSl 12, 1832.
Moir.T Ho~oaED Sin : I have the honor to uclmowledge .the r~ecipt o( your favor of the Oth instant, by which you arc plenseu, with the authorizo.tion of the l'resicleut, to give into my charge nnd dirertion the important national work of the survey of the coast of 1he United States, wilh a com· pensation of ~3,000 annually for my services, :md n11 armnul allowauco of $1,500 for my personal expenses, to begin from thn 2d iustant. I nm too well aware of the great impor1a11cc of tile work, its P-xigencit~s and natur~, and the rnaguitnclc of the task, uot to appreciate dnly the value .of the co11fideuce you place in me hy this 1rust. I shall r.ull up all my exerti11ns to prove these feelings, by ronuucting iltc work i11 a 111a11ner a~

Uep. No. 43.

103

honorable as permanently useful to the country ; for which it presents so valuable means, that I feel highly honored by the occasion thus given to mo to contribute my exertions toward 'such an aim. The diminution of the allowance for my personal expenses, from what they had been rated at in my first appoiutmeut it~ 1816, is not such that within the limits of such estimations, made beforehand, its effects could be distinctly foreseen; I could only say, that while I was in activity in this work in 1817~ my annual expensas in my absence from home amounted to about $2,000. What effect the now somewhat changed prices of things may have in th~s respect is of course impossible to foretell; therefore this is so much less au objection with me, as in any case I am certain it is not the intention of tho Government to put me to pecuniary loss, and that, therefore, in case it should be found appropriate, this part may easily be modi· fied to tho exigency of unforeseen circumstances. I shall also ahend to the standarding of weights and measures, in which I have hithorto been ougaged. I have taken such arrangements as will enable my assistant in it, Mr. Schmid, to prepn1·e the works to the lo.st stage of their adjustment, which I shall then make myself next winter, after my return from this year's field work in the survey. His ncquaintanc~ with the subject, and his practice in that part during his presence -in all my former operations, rnudcr him fully capable to the task; and his work will abridge mine so as to bring the necessity of my personal attendance within such limits of time as will be compatible with my work in the survey. With thanks for the honor of your confidence, I remain, with perfecL respect and estce1q, most honored sir, your most obedient servant,

F. R. HASSLER.
Hon. Lot·1s McLANE,

Secretary of tile Treos"r!J of llie United Slates.

Q8
INVESTIGATION
UPON THE

A~

SURVEY OF THE COAST
OF THE

.l/S /8tf 3

UNITED STATES,
AND TllE

CONSTRUCTION OF STANDARDS
OF

WEIGHT AND MEASURE,
llY A

SELECT COMMITTEE OF CONGRESS,
IN 1842.

PUBLISHED BY F. R. HASSLER.

18 4.· 3.

Unitc1l Stutcs Joh Pri11ti11g Office, J,cdgcr lluiltli11g, Pliili1.

WASlllNGTON, JUNE

20, 1841.

Hon. CAr.1m CuRmN<>, Member of Congress. Sm,-The 111nny rnistnkes which 1tre in your ·tntemcnts in Congress, reluting to tho Survey of tho Conxl of lhu UnilL'tl Slulc·, commitlcd lo my chnrgo, occllsion mo to tnke tho liherty to request of you, !hut you will pleu·u to visit thu ollicu, in the ht·I house, right hnnd sido of Now .for"ey Avenue upon Cnpitul Hill,"" it must bo <liongrccnblo to you to htbor under ·o mnny misupprehcnsions, or ·id" inl111cnccs, by which besides you might occn·ion irropnruble mischief boforo tho so <lcsirnblu investigntion Jm3 proved them ns unfoundod 118 thoy uro. For the investignlion which you provnl;c, I thnnk you VNY much. I cndo·e 11"rc, nlso, somu of the lnsl reports which mny hnvu c"cnpc<I your notice. The previous documents nre too vol11111inou" und unli>rtmmtcly much or n pulumic 1111111re, occn·ioned by similur unlOnndod ntlnck·, whil'h wnrn ovcn·.01110 in Ji,;:w. A previous circumstance in 18H::, ·imilllr lo yonr call, which wns snl'ccssl'nl, ile·troyc1\ tho work then, after only nbonl ono yeur'· existcncu, t'llllS.,d thu nntion nn rxpen"<' of nhont hnlr" 111ill1un, for which nut n mup or tho Hizo of n hnnd iH pro1l11cil.>lu in tho Nnvy Dcpnrlm<·nt, whcro tho neconnt· testify to my stntoment. At thnt time, ii wn· tho nnvnl chnplnin, Fcl·h, who orcn· sioncd the tlnmng-e, nn<l lhe bill p11··ed Congrc"" without nny inquiry, eommittec, or other diKc11··iuu, und it Wll3 nul m1til J1':J2, (not Jt:.31) tlmt the lnw for tho rcnewnl of tho work cuulJ ho pn·sc<l, even with nnf11vornble li111itut ion·, the work heginning ngnin 1833, not· withstanding tho noticu given by tho then Sccrl'lury of tho Nuvy, now :5c1mtor :5outlmrd, dntes nlrendy in 1828. l'lenso to con·idor nothing of nil this n· personal to me, it is tho good of tho pHhlic, nnd your own credit, nlone which I con·ult in n<ldrcssing yon;"" for mo, pcr·unnlly, I cnn only guin from !hut Hide Ly any invcstigulion. l l11~ve the honor to be, &:l'. (Signed) F. R. IIAS:5Llm.

On motion of Mr. MALLOHY, Orrlr.rul, Thul the Icuer from thu :'\ccretnry of the T1·cn·11ry, lnid before the House on the 3J J1unmry, trnn·111i1ting11 ruporl of F.1L l ln.,·l<'r, Supcrinlt·n<leut of tl1e Con·! Survey, xhowing tho prughJ8~ nuulc in that work, nnd tho report frnm tho Sccrutnry of tho 'l'n·11Rury, lnid bclioro the IIon·o on tho 31·t .lnntmry, J~.J~, in reh1tion to tho nxpend1t11rc· on ucconnt of the ~urrny of llw Con·I, lw rdilr1·.,,J ton""'""' commillt·u. Mr. 1\lnllory, Mr. \Viso, Mr. Cu·hing, M1" Ay ... rig;:, nnd Mr. lluhne· wern uppuinted ·llid con1111illco. Saturd~y, February lU, 1842.

Tltursday, Marcli 17, 1842.
Present, Mr. MALLORY, Mr. W1sE, Mr. HoLMEs, Mr. AvcRIGG. Mr. Hassler uppenred before the Committee, ngreeubly to the request of the Chairmnn, made by order of the Committee ut former meeting.
EXAMINATION OF F. R. HASSLER. 1. Question by Mr. Mullory. Hnvo you dovinled in nuy wny from tho original plan adopted in 18071 Answer. Not in tho ll'nst. 2. Quc~lion hy tho snmo. l· not tho work now conduclorl on n more exlondecl plnn than wns originally intended, nnd does it not embrnco objocls not originally contempluted by the Govornmcnl 1 Answer. Not in the lens!. 3. Qucsli1m hy snmc. Is it intended lllllt the prcsonl Const Survey shnll furni·h !ho nocossnry dnln for tho mcasurmnonl of un arc of !ho mcridiun, or u pumllcl of lutitudu 'I Answer. No. 4. Question by same. Is thern any necessury connection botwcen such meosnrcment, nn<I n hytll'Ogrnphic Survey of the Coost 1 Answer. No. 5. QueHtion hy snmo. Could nn nrc of tho rnoridinn or pnrn\lel of lnlitudo bo monsured with more fncility, expedition nnd ccouomy, if disco1111cctc<l from ull other objocls? Answor. Yes. O. Quuslion by Mr. Aycrigg. Yon refer in yonr R1·porl (Docnmonl No. 2.'l,) to 11 11111nbor of volumes in which tho work is conloined; is tho work in those volmnes retlnced 'I Answor. Tltlly ure rednet·11. 7. Question by Mr. Mullory. Whore nre those pupcrs kept 1 Answol'. Iu my office. 8. Q11e·lion hy sumo. Are they snfo from fire 1 Answer. Yes. \l. Question by same. Arn lhllro nny tlnp\icnlcs of the·c pupors 1 Answer. Somo; of tho grcnlcr purl. 10. Question by snmo. Of whut pupcr nro theso duplicnl!'· 1 An·wor. Of nll, oxcepl llw Inst yeor'· work. 11. Question hy Mr. Aycrigg. Is tho Govornmcnt in po··cssion of any of the tlatn, or are they in yonr possession 1 Answer. They nrc in the ofliee-n houAo rentl'd hy tho Troasury Depnrlmont, nnd under tho cnro of persons in tho employment of Government. 12. Question by Mr. Mnllory. \\'ho dll you moun, when you sny, "persons in !he employment of Government 1" Au·wer. Myst>lf nnd my assistants. 13. Quostion by sumo. Hupposo !ho houso should bo burnt nnd papers doslroyod, would
not Govcrmucnl Kustnin grenl lot-'H ~

Answer. Ye·; IJnt I conceive the hon·o completely ·ufo, propor mcnsurcs being tnkcn to gnurd egoinst fire. Tho hmi.t!s hnve been ·Inlet! with thiA view. 14. Q1wstion hy sume. Iln vo uny ..ihcr nmps or churls been published besides thoso of Now lluvcn, Ncwurk nnd Dridgeporl 1 Auswer. No other. Tho hour of 12 having urrivetl, tho Committee adjourned lo meet on this dny week.

Addit;;na to the first examination of P. R. Hassler.
'

To questions s, 4, and 5. Here is omitted what I said to Mr. Mallory upon the me,asurement of an arc of meridian, or such like, namely: I w~ do it, if you want. Upon which be retired smiling. · ;1 . Q11estions 6, 7, s, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13, show evidently the desire to take the results of _the field works immediately out df tny hands, .which would expose them to spoliation, as I know would be tire case. · I answered therefore simply, but could not otherwise but be displeased with the (fot me evident) tendency of the questions. Besides, it must be tibserved, that such :measures could lead to·nothing but gtisitive disappointment. Question 14. This answer must be corrected by the list of maps handed in afterwards.

.

.

COAST SURVEY OF THE UNI'l'ED STATES.

1. In the lost discussion upon the upproprintions, it bas plensed Mr. Aycrigg, nnd one more of the members of a committee of five representntives in Congress, to throw out the broad ·cnst accusation, that I was mentally nnd physically incompetent to that task which I have now performed for ten years, with full upprobation nnd even praise, on the port of the men of science of Europe, and of this country. 2. This stutement was made not only without producing any proof, but also in full contradiction to abundant fncts, and without producing the report which the committee is bound to make to Congress with the documents in support ; namely, the examination of myself and nssistnnts upon the Const Survey, nnd my report asked by the very member upon my works for the establishment of uniform sta.ndurds of weights and meosures for the United States. 3. As it is impossible that an assembly of the representatives of a whole nation should possibly be guided by more empty words without any proof, it appears not necessnry to go into an actual refutation of an assertion, the nullity of which can be well dismissed, and will be proved by Congress calling for the examinntions, &c., quoted under 2d. So much tho rather, as luckily my well known state of mental and physiciil capacity cannot possibly depend upon the decision of a committee of Congress, and are now in full good state, as they have been observed by the gentlemen who hnvc favored tho Const Survey Office with their visit. 4. I will, therefore, limit myself hero to two stutements made under the denomination of facts, but which are related in a mnnncr completely different from what they actually nre. 6. The wrong scale upon n. mnp of Newark Bay, by Lieut. Com. Gedney. This fact stands thus: 6. When Lieut. Gedney wns sounding Newnrk Bay, he communicated uncnutiously, without any communication with me, and ngninst the regular order of the work, o. chart of his soundings, to some persons pressing him for it. When informed of it, I hud to

r

2

J

call him to the regular order of the work, that nothing should be delivered unknown to me, and without orders previously obtained from the 'l'reasury Department; this to get caused some delay, while local contending interests in Newark were impatient. This Mr. Aycrigg reproached to me, in the committee, that he had so long to ask for it. When the whole summer's work was brought in the bureau, Lieut. Gedney had a map made as desired, and more · extensive, under his direction, wherein the fraction of the scale was mistaken, which map was never exhibited to me until at the time of the committee, when he complained to me that such a great crime was made to him out of an accidental miswriting of a fraction by one of his subaltern officers. I believe he then told me that the error was corrected ; I properly remonstrated with him that this accusa· tion WIIB the reward for his hurrying a work with unreasonable impatience, and without any communication with me. Mr. Aycrigg, who takes up this subject ns nn accusation against me, is completely aware of every particular, as Lieut. Gedney explained it all to himself, he can therefore not be otherwise but perfectly aware that he does me a wilful injustice. 7. Mr. Aycrigg accuses me of having made, in a pamphlet of 200 pages, 400 errors, which I myself corrected. I had no idea that I should have to reveal to the public the errors of some learned men, by being forced into self-defence by a misapplication of the fact against the actual statement made on the face of it. I do it reluctantly, but as the full proof cnn be administered, I must give it as follows. 8. When the Coast Survey broke up in 1818, and after my return from the Northern Boundary Survey, I gave in 1820, under the title, " Papers upon various subjects relating to the Survey of tlie Coast of the United States," to the Philosophical Society of Philadelphia, the descriptions of the instruments, the methocl of operating and observing, which I hacl partly used, partly proposed to use, in that work. Old Dr. Pntterson, then its president, the gentleman the most acquainted with the work and its various first plans, &c., proposed it as n great national work, and upon the report of n committee, it was the 30th March following, ordered to be printed. But the Philosophical Society being short of funds, the execution of the printing was delayed so long, that in 1822 the Philosophical So· ciety of New York, where I then was, desiring to see 1t work, which they considered so honorable for the country, published, usked the mnnuscript from Philadelphia, but was refused it-see the opinion

[ 3
of Professor Renwick of New York, in the Syllabus of his Lectures upon nntuml philosophy. 9. All nt once, without tho slightest notice given to me from Philndelphin, the volume of the Philosophical Society's Transactions, contttining these pnpcrs, appeared in 1825 ; but with the sense in science so terribly distorted thnt I complained of it, nnd naked for my original mnnuscript, which I hnd requested to be preserved ; and then found thnt Professor Pntterson, now Director of the Mint in Philndelphin, nnd Mr. Nnlty, n good theoretical mathematician, both members of the Philosophical Society, who hnd never been in, nor seen, or studied any pnrticulur pnrt of muthemntics bearing upon a work of thnt nature, hnd undertuken to correct (ns they called it,) the lnngnnge of my pnpers. Now, it is well known, that it is impossible for n mnn knowing nothing of n subject to write upon it with propriety of expression ; thence, the most nbsurd errors crept into the printing. I wns obliged, in self-defence, to print immedi11tely corrections which rendered the mistakes loss absurd, though they do not bring the expressions back to my original manuscript. All the men of science acquainted with the subject of these papers nclmowleclge my lungnnge in manuscript proper, but not the one introduced in lieu of it in the printing, nnd nll the subjects of the pnpers were highly approved, in Germnn, French, and English publicntions equally. 10. The complaint agninst my langungc is new nnd is affected, merely arising from wnnt of ncquaintnnce with the subject. Alrendy in 1806, people of good society in Philndelphin considered my lnngnago ns very appropriate in expression. Mr. .Tefterson called it very clear, one of the best public editors of this country declared it very precise nnd perspicuous. In Englnnd, nnd by Englishmen, it was always approved as expressing subjects very well, though it was not of the common street chnrncter. I wns in that compnred with an eminent lnwyer of London, nnd I got nt different times acknowledgments of a good nnd very clenr expressive style of Eng· lish. But I nm not alone in hnving observed thnt in this count1·y the English lnngunge nctunlly vnries from the English of England, nnd from one State to the other. As I wrote books in New York nnd in Virginia, I hnve hnd sufficient experience to see some of rny expressions npproved in the Southern States, nud condemned in the Northern. But ulwnys the mniu diiiiculty wns the unnc-

[ 4

J

quaintance with the subject upon which I wrote, and not the language in itself. · 11. lfthere should be any part of the accusation of errors of print tried to refer to my Logarithmic and Trigonometric tnbles, published stereotype in New York, I must state as follows-they were in the first appearance considered us containing for less errors than commonly occur in first editions of such works. They were instantly all corrected, and an edition of 1000 wns mnde for Admiral Kruswam, chief of the Russian Naval Academy, us most appropriate, (who not long ago offered me to be recommended to the Emperor for a decoration.) They were sufficiently approved in England, so that immediately an edition was published there, quoting its origin from me. 12. I have written a number of other books, which were well approved in Europe, and in this country, by the men acquainted with the science to which they relate; I rely upon that public, whic~ is the only one that can be acknowledged competent, for the ultimate decision of the case.

F. R. HASSLER.
Philadelphia, 23d Dec. 1842.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

Q. 1. Have any mnps been prepared and completed so ns to be ready for publication, other thnn the three published 1 And if so, what 1 ANs. 1. A complete map of New York Harbor is engrnving. 2. A partial mnp of the entrance of New York has been prepared nnd delivered to the Fifth Auditor for the Lighthouse Bureau. 3. One for the 1'hames River in Connecticut nearly ready for delivery, to an order of the Sccretmy. 4. One for the Topographical Bureau for the site of fortification of the entrance of New York harbor nt Sandy Hook. 5. One of the north shore of Long Island Sound at New Loudon, culled for by the Secretary of the Treasury. The four Inst named were prcpnrcd for the ollices. [Adel. By my contrnct with the Govcrmncnt I am obliged to <leliver nothing of the work, but to the Government or its order, with whom my contr:ict is made. It is therefore tlirongh that me<lium that all puhlicatio11s, and whatever may have rcforence to them, ure to be ordcrml, which arc to be executed hy me in this respect.] Q. 2. Is either of the eight maps above namc<l, so for correct and complete in itself as to be of nuy utility in nnd for the localities to which it applies'/ ANs. To be snre. Each is complete and of m;e in itself. [Add. But they must for that pnrposc, at tlw time of their application for publication or otherwise, he rcclnced to the scale which their npplication will require; like that is 1tlw1tys the case, no map being pnblislw<l so as it is snrvcyccl.] Q. 3. Arc these all on the same scale or otherwise? ANs. They ure not all on the same scale, hnt ~;ome larger nnd some smaller, according to the purpose for which they were respectively intended. [Adel. lt is evident in principle that the maps of harbors must Le, ns well surveyed, as published, upon a much larger scale, than those of a mere ru1111i11g coast.] Q. 4. ls there any objection to the publication of definite nnd successive parts of the work us they may be completed, such us the map of New York now in the engraver's hands 'J

2

6 ANs. No; not in the least, as soon as the engraving is finished. [Add. It is necessary on the part of the government to tnke proper measures to give with the publication guarantee to the public for the authenticity of all that is published. (Sec answer to question 5, in my report of December, 1841.)] Q. 5. Is it necessary to complete the survey of Delaware Ilay before it can be practicable to publish n chart of Long Island Sound? ANs. No. [Add. Ilut the publication of the Delaware is of much more pressing importance. J Q. 6. Is there any objection to the publication of the work connected with the maps, as they are published? ANs. No ; it is proper to publish the data on which the chart is constructed, in order to vcrify its correctness, and as a guide for the use of it. [Add. Ilut this cannot be done until a full system of main triangulation between two base-lines is completed.] Q. 7. Has the work of mensuration and trinngnlation connected with the maps of Bridgeport, New Haven and Newark, been published with them 1 ANs. No. [Add. Because this was not a requisite in the case, the points used were all only detail points; what may be proper to be qnoted of mathematical data belongs to the general account of the work.] Q. 8. Has nny part of the mensuration of the survey, and of other scientific elements of the work, hcen published 'I ANs. No. [Add. My papers upon various suhjccts relating to the survey of the const of the United States, in the Philosophical 'frnnsnctions of Philadelphia, second volume, new series, 1825, which are in duplicate in the Library of Congress, give full account of these parts ; what may become ncces1mry to add after the present work, has to await iis proper time.] Remar/c.-The word mensuration is in all these articles used entire! y against its sense in the science. Q. 9. Has any systematically full pmt of the work between two base-lines nnd two astronomical stations been completed as yet ANs. No; the locality of the coast hitherto surveyed hns not permitted it. · [Add. Nor is it proper to be done but nt an appropriated distance from the first base-line, and astronomical station, of some amount proportionate to the work which is to be grounded upon it.] Q. 10. Where is your furthest eastwardly astronomical station on the coast?

7

ANs. Mount Carmel near New Haven.
Q. 11. Where is your next astronomical station proceeding south-

westwnrdly? ANs. Tashun near Bridgeport. Q. 12. Where your next? ANs. West Hills on Long Island. [Adel. 'l'hcre also n Solar Eclipse was observed.] Q. 13. Whore the next? ANs. Buttermilk Hill, near Tarrytown, New York. [Add. to 10, 11, 12, 13. These stations were not exclusively astronomical stations; tho astronomical observations were iutended more for preliminary determinations at the heginuing to guide tho work, and to take ndvnntngc of tho presence of the nssistants, who were nil present, to introduce them, and to exorcise them in this kind of observations. The main aim of these stations was the uetermination of main triangular points.] Q. 14. Any others? ANs. Yes. Weazel Mountain near Patterson, N. J., and some southwest of that. [Add. Upon that station of Wenzel Mountain, all the means for astronomical determinations anu nzimnths were united, nud n regular system of those observations cxccntcd with its appropriated combinations, upon peculiar mcthotfa, which I made and prescribed, nnd which succeeded to satisfaction. 'l'he isolated observations of the preceding stations were of course reduced to this, by wny of comparison.] Q. 15. How many hose-lines have boon measured in the Survey 1 ANs. Two in 1817 nnd one in 1834. [Add. Those of 1817 were mcnsmcd only preliminarily with the chain, still tho vcrif1cntion proved very snlisfoctory, as the triangle results and the measurement differed less tlmn 8 illchcs in about 5 miles. Tho base-line of 1834 was measured with the microscopic nppnrutus, and exactly as described in tho papers of tho Philosophical 'I'runsn.ctious of 1825, quoted above.] Q. 16. JJetwecn what points is the hnse-line, measured in 1834? ANs. On the beach at Fire Island light-house, L. I., and the line measured is eight nnd three quarter miles in length, measuring cnstwnrdly from the light-house. [Add. From a point southeast of the light-house, townrds tho son, upon the sand along tho sen cnstwnrd. 'l'he points nro mnrkod by square hewn red sn11d-stone, of near 4 feet length, fixed solid in the ground. Sec my 3d Report of May 8, 1835.] Q. 17. Where are the base-lines of 1817?

8
ANs. One in English Neighborhood, N. J., and the other at Gravesend Bench, L. I. [Add. The end points of these are marked by hollow cones of stoneware.] Q. 18. Has any use been made of the two last named base-lines in the work of the Survey 1 ANs. Yes : for the beginning in 1833. [Add. It was, of course, proper to take advantage of this clement on hand, to start the work more rapidly in 1833, by using determinations grounded upon these bases, so much the rather as they had proved exact. The use made of them in 1817, appears in the schedula of the triangulation, which I handed into the 'rreasury Department in 181.8.J Q. 19. What objection is there to publishing the details and mathematical elements of the work us completed from Point Judith to New York Harbor 1 ANs. The main triangulation has not been completed so far as Point Jndith, but only the secondary. 'fhc main triangulation has been completed only between Prinr's Head, opposite New Haven, and Mount Carmel in Connecticut, enstwardly, and Mount Holly, N. J., and Yard's, (Newton township, near Philadelphia,) southwestwardly. The secondary triangulation has been completed from Point Judith to Cape Henlopen on the Coast, and from New York across to the head of the Chesapeake. [Add. The remark to 6, applies here most forcibly, and upon a larger scale. Such an account is to be given only when two bases are joined; I did it on a small scale in 1818, because I hnd, by way of precaution, measured two bases near each other, (see the reasons in my printed papers above quoted.) Now, in the renewed work, this must be done only when another large base-line is measured, by the same means and methods, as that on Fire Island Dench has been, and at a distance from that in proper proportion with the extent to which the Survey shall reach."] Q. 20. What reason is there for concealing from the public tho elements of the work between Friar's Head and Mount Holly 1 ANs. None. [Add. to 20, 21., 22. For concealing. Ilut it would be of no use whatsoever to any one, except copyists, who would, by abusing the public property in the work, degrade it, it would be, therefore, an oxpense not only useless but very detrimental ; it will, besides, all appear in the account referred to in the addition to 19 ; in fact it would

* There is a lapnu calami in the statement of my unswcr.

9
be highly improper to do it before the publication of the more extensive system, of which it shall form a part in proper time. (There is, however, no concealment about it.)] Q. 21. Hus it been published? ANs. No-it is not proper. Q. 22. Why is it not proper? ANs. Ilecnnse, it will introduce imitations of the work to the detriment of its validity.* Q. 23. Imitntions by whom? ANs. By common chart sellers or others. [Add. It is the dnty of the government to let no parceling out if possible, under penalty of seeing the government's own work ultimately discredited; snch n desire cannot be fairly entertained.] Q. 24. How is the Survey injured by individnuls publishing charts, copied from those of the Survey? ANs. Because the mnps won ld not be official. [Add. 'I'his quality of being otlicial is nbsolntely required to give confidence to the public, therefore security to the navigntion, (see question 5, in my Report of December Inst.)] Q. 25. ·wonld not the publication of the data with the mups, cnn.ble scientific men to judge of the accuracy of the work? ANs. Of course. [Add. When the account of the modes and of the mcnns to their execution will be joined to them; which cnn be done only after a certain full system between two main buses cun be presented to the public.] Q. 2G. Would not the withholding the do.to. until the completion of the Survey enable the operator to force results 'J ANs. No-in the manner_ in which the work is curried on it cannot be. [Add. Unless flngrnnt fnlsificntion, which men of science would discover immediately in tho ucconnt rendered of the work; bnt in the maps alone there lies no such veriilcn.tion ; therefore, also, they nre not ndmitted ns any proof of the work, notwithstanding that in common lrnbit, in the o,/jices here, this is not regn.rded, nor any account of the mode of operating is nskecl. Q. 27. Can scientific men judge of the nccnrncy of the work, unless the mathematical clements of it be published? ANs. No. [Add. Just, therefore, the hnsty publicntion of an unfinished work has no value.]
· There
800108

to lie nn error in copying.

10
Q. 28. Have tho mathematical elements of the charts of Bridgeport, New Haven nnd Newark, been published r ANs. No.-That will come into the geneml account. [Add. Like stated upon question 7, which is in fact the same.] Q. 20. When do yon propose to puhlish such a general account~ ANs. So soon as I shall have roached the vcrificc.ttion base on the Chesapeake. [Add. Where I expect to fincl a proper locality to measure one, probably upon what is called the Eastern-shore.] Q. 30. When do you expect to reach that point 1 ANs. In a few years. [Add. Unless circumstances should decide to accelcrntP still more, on the ground of finding better locality, therefore larger triangles, which would be more advantageous to join northerly from there the points now reached from the noith.] Q. 31. When do you expect to complete the Delaware 1 ANs. If I can get out in season, lJy the encl of the your. Q. 32. What prevents your getting out in season 1 ANs. Tho want of money-nearly all the appropriation having been expended. [Add. to 31, 32. The secondary, plunc-tnble, and naval parties are now (25th May,} all out ; how long I shall be detained by tlte circumstances, I cannot know, as it docs not depend on me.] Q. 33. Does the work on the Weights and Measures occupy uny of your time, which might be appropriated to the Survey 1 ANs. No.-It does not take nny of my time. [Add. That is, no more than is fully compensated by the advantages which it gives in the office part of tlw work, and the keeping in order of the instruments of the Coast Survey, which is of daily occurrence, in which my tnsk is wry much cased by it.] Q. 34. How much of your time is wanted personally to the const survcv? ANs. All the time, except the inspection and reporting on the Weights und Measures. [Add. Without the constant attendance to my works, at any hours that can be u:;;ed for them, my task would be positively incxecutable. This is evident by the state of the establishment and the works produced.J Q. 35. How much time docs it take to inspect and report upon the Weights and Measures? ANs. About half an hour in the morning and Jmlf an J1our in the afternoon of the duy-hut not of each day. This is only while I nm in the office. I nm generally in the field from the middle of Mny

11
to that of December. Sometimes I nm in the field to tho end of December. [Add. Thnt extra works nnd varieties occur in nll works is too well known, to expect that every <lay shall be equal to every other <lay. My easiest part is the field work.) Q, 36. At what time in the spring do the different corps start on their duties 1 ANR. Genernlly in April, remnining until tho middle or ond of November. [Adel. '!'ho field work is more ngrcenblc, in the fuvoruble senson, thun the office work; they uro always anxious to get out ns soon as they cnn.] Q. 37. Did yon lose pnrt of a year last year, and if so, why 1 ANs. I lost the aim of Inst year's work, in order to answer the resolution of the House of Repr<)sentatives on the Coast Survey, of January 24th, 1841, and by the fever 'vhieh seized mo in October. Q. 38. At what time did yon tnke the field Inst year, nnd how much of your time di<l the resolution occnpy 7 ANs. I did not take the field until the middle of September. The resolution occnpicd me three or fonr weeks. I was also tletained to mako u report ou Weights a11d l\'leasures. [Add. 37, 38. 'l'hcso arc sniliciently explained us for the fact, but it must be ndded here, that tho speaking disreputnbly and inimically against the Const Survey work in Congress, occasions ignorant men in tho country, who road those things, to lay impediments in tho way of tho work, nnd to ill treat us, which is a great loss to tho work and its economy.] Q. 39. Is the work in the ofl1ec now in such n state of forwardness us not to interfere with the corn111P11comont of the field work this your, so soon as tho season will permit tho work to go out 1 ANs. Not in tho least. [A<ld. Namely, intc1fcrc. It is well known that tho uccidcntal circumstance of the exhaustion of the old appropriation, and tho dolay of tho new one, have kept all bnck to the end of May, in l81J2, nnd that I remained oven nftor thnt. I ndvnnccd money to ussistunts to ennblc them to go nut, only :!jl:J!iO; but if the attacks hnd not been mndo upon me, ns WPll known, I wonld hnvc prevented nll stoppage, as I clicl three times in the beginning- of the work; but, under existing circnmstnncos, it was not proper for me to ndvnnce my credit, us I di<l in those cases, nnd also hcforo in London.] Q. 40. Why is not the mnin triangulation np with the secondary 1 ANs. On account of tho difliculties of finding snitnblo clovutions on both sides of tho Delaware.

12
Q. 41. Who conducts the main triangulation 1 ANs. I, myself, according to positive stipulations. Q. 42. Why is not the main triangulation carried as far eastward as the secondary 1 ANs. Because it was not needed. [Add. to 40, 41, 42. The main triangulation determining large distances with greater accuracy than the secondary triangulation, it serves as element and ground-work for the latter, which, in consequence of the accuracy of these clements, can proceed outside of the limits of the main triangulation for a certain distance, without losing sensibly in accuracy, but this has its determined limits; the main triangulation has always kept near enough to the other part of the work, not to expose it to any loss of accuracy, detrimental to the use made of the secondary triangulation.] Q. 43. When will it be needed J ANs. So soon as the junction is made with the base-line on the Chesapeake. [Add. This namely means, that in this place and time, both triangulations must come up together, and then the field of operation is open in all directions.] Q. 4.4. When that junction is made, do you propose to suspend the work south, and go back east, or to have two parties? ANs. When the junction is mndc, while the secondary triangulation goes on south, I shall continue the primary triangulation cast. Q. 45. Cannot the main triangulation be carried ou, except under your immediate personal supervisio11 '! ANs. Not in the prcsellt state of things. Q. 46. Why not '! ANs. Because there is nobody to do it, and the circumstances are contrary. Q. 47. Is there noLody else attached to the Survey who can do it? ANs. Not now. Q. 48. What arc the contrary circumstances spoken of'! ANs. Want of money; thnt is of a larger appropriation. Q. 49. Must the main triangulation be suspended eastward, until you can take it up personally'! ANs. In the present state of things, yes. [Acld. to 44 to 49, inclusive. I should desire very much, that by the time the work is in that state, more extensive 'means might present themselves appropriutecl to the exigency of the case that may then he; but to say any thing about it would be of no avail, and premature.]

13
Q. 50. In what portion of the field work hnvc you been personally employed the Jo.st ycnr? ANs. At Yard's, behind Philndclphin. Q. 51. Where the year before?ANs. Willowgrovc nnd Mount Holly. [ Acld. to 50, 51. lt mnst be remarked upon these nrticlcs, thnt the putting me in jail nt Mount Holly, by a. warrant of Judge Dayton, of Trenton, given upon the oath of a clergyman of the name of Drown, who swore his damage was over $200, because I bad refused to pay nt first presentation, instantly, a bill presented to me by n socullcd Judge Haywood, for $25 damages, because I found it overrated, nnd asked nn impartial estimate to legitimate me to direct the payment to be made, (the ucconuting o!Iiccr being absent,) that such n circumstuuee, I say, I considered as neither decent 11or agreeable ; such acts go to the direct overthrow of the work ; the court concern following it cost both sides useless, but I had to stand the disagreement, and the Treasury Department had to defond the suit, which awarded the reverend .Mr. llrown, with dif!lcnlty, as a liighcst extreme the $25 claimed, most of the jury voting first for 10, 15, 01· $20, instead of the hundreds which he had sworn to. It was necessary to staml this legal transaction in self-defence ; the documents upon it can be exhibited. At Yard's, the same impudence is now repeated; damages nskcd of more thnn double the value, awl irnpnumt letters written upon it, &c. Such things not only cost money, hut have a tendency to give apprehensions npon the snfoty of our station po~nts aud signals, to the great annoyance of the work.] Q. fi2. Where do you propose to employ yourself on the field work the present year 1 ANS. South of Yard's nnd or Mount Holly, on both sides of the Delaware. We have been obliged to make ti special ngrccmeut with the owner of the land of the station next nftcl' Yard's, to avoid ditlicultics, if possible, by 11 contract for the use of the land for three yours. Q. 53. What is the precii.;c <lnty or part of the work performed by you at Yard's, and at Mount Holly 'I ANs. Measuring the angles of the main trianguln.tion. Q. 54. How many assistants were there in the party in which you operated lust year ? ANS. Nonc.-I did tho work alone. That is, I did the mathematical work alone. [Add. to 531 54.. I have lmbitually only one of the persons cngng3

14
ed in the work at lower wages than an assistant, to write the angles, not to take an assistant ut higher wages away from a more important work. In this peculiar instance at Yard's, a friend was a great part of the time with me, who was capable to assist me, as I was sick, and in signalizing to ascertain visibility of distant stations, being ac!1uainted with the country.] Q. 55. Is there any person in the Coast Survey, competent to take charge of, and continne the work, if you should cease to do it 1] ANs. Not us yet. Q. 56. Do you mean to be understood, that without your personal superintendence the work must cease, and that no man can take it up, continue and complete it?ANs. Not honorably. Add. to 55, 56. It is very natural that in this, like in every other subject of science, or knowledge, the acquirements and improvements are gradual, they develop themselves as the occasion for them is given, and with a considerable and proportional consumption of time. So much so, that even in Europe this branch of science is not so much spread, as it is pretended to be already in this country, where it has never yet been employed at all ; for the detached small surveys, made so abundantly, do not come at all in comparison, nor under the principles of science, which is absolutely required for such an extensive work as the Coast Survey, especially in the form and in the locality of the earth in which it lies.] Q. 57. Is there any profound secret in the mensuration of triangles, and the making of astronomical observations known to you alone of all mankind 1 ANs. Science is a public thing, but it requires study to be perfect in it. [Add. These are not the exact words of my answer. I answered, with measured reflection, " Science is no secret, but it requires a great deal of study to acquire it."] Q. 58. Is them any person in the Survey who is pursuing such a line of observation and study, ns to be in the way of learning to measure triangles, and take observations hereafter in your stead 1 ANs. I give them all instruction which they will accept. [Add. The accusation of secret, started against me, is most unfounded, as my assistants will certainly aver.] Q. 59. Docs no one in the survey but you measure triangles or take observations 1 ANa. Every one of the principal assistants takes the secondary triangles. Q. 60. What difference is there in the mathematical clements of primary and of secondary triangles 1

15
ANs. The larger triangles require more attention to the figure of the earth, and to the mathematical elements arising from it. Q. GI. Do0s geodesy apply to the main triangulation and not to the secondary '! ANs. More especially, but not exclusively. [Add. to 59, GO, (j 1. To explain nearer these three answers would require a theoretical nnd practical treatise upon the subject, which would be too long, nnd not appropriate here.] Q. 62. How long will it tnke to finish the work along the whole coast of the United States, going on at the rate of time and appropriation heretofore used 'I ANs. That nobody can say, in either one wuy or another. [Aud. It would be presumptuous in any man to unme a certain determined time, none would undertake it unless he hud the accessory intention to mislead. (Sec my answer to question 13 of the resolution of the lust Congress session.) Steady ussiduity, ant.l well gnidcd exertions, will hri11g it forwurd, as fast us the nature of the work nnd the localities of the country will nclmit, nml more can neither be expected nor obtained, by no rnenns whatsoever ; mnthcmuticnl principles and n aturc cannot be bargained with.] Q. 63. What is the whole extent of the general coast from Passamaquoddy to the Sabine, not including rivers'! ANs. I cnnnot tell. [Add. It is evident tlmt the length is no determining element of the work, because the nuturo of the coast and its indentures, &c. form the determining elcnwnt, us stLtted repeatedly.] Q. 64. Whnt proportion of the eutiro coast of the United Stutes has thus for beeu surveyed 1 ANs. I cannot say. [Add. This would evidently have to be measured by the principles stated in the preceding answer, and therefore cru1 afford but a very vague scale of comparison; whnt I have said upon th1Lt in my report of Inst December, gives the dnta that can be given to a mun knowing both the science nnd the country.] Q. 65. You huvc said that the latitude and longi~ucle of Cupe Hatteras was err.oneons in the charts: How did you usccrtuin it 1 ANs. By having attempted to make a union of the northern and southern mnps, which join ut that place, in 1828. [Add. 'l'his is nn individual experience of mine ; no doubt the determinutio11s, charts, maps, &c. will vary amoug one nnotl1er.] Q. 06. How long hefore the survey will reach Cupe Hatteras 1 A NS. It is impossible to sny; it is too vague a guess. Q. 67. lfovc you any personal knowledge of the localities of the Son them Const ?

16
ANs. I have never been any further south than Norfolk. Q. 68. You hnve said that it wns difficult to find suitable elevntions on both sides of the Delaware; which cause prevented the main triangulation from keeping up with the secondaiy? (No. 40.) How do you propose to obviate similar difficulties on the fiat coasts of the South? ANs. By care nnd assiduity, and by the methods used on the Jersey sea-coast. Q. G9. Js that work on the Jersey sea-coast a primary or a secondary trfrmgulation 1 ANs. It is a secondary triangulation. Q. 70. What is the peculiarity of the methods used on the Jersey sea-coast where there is n deficiency of actual elevations 1 ANs. By adapting the triangulations to any locality which may be found favorable. Q. 71. You <lid not specify any of the means you propose to recur to at the South in the absence of actual elevations : Do you decline to state what they are 1 ANs. No. (Add. I decline no answer upon any questions. Q. 72. What arc they ? ANs. By mixed astronomical and gcodctical observations. Q. 73. Wliy were not sucli means used to overcome the impediments to the completion of the main triangi.1lution on the Dcluwnre 1 ANs. Bccamie they would not apply with propriety. There arc better means. Q. 74. What arc tliose better means? ANs. By meeting those localities !Jy triangulations from the south side of the locality. [Add. to 68, lifl, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74. 'l'hesc questions go evidently into details of thu practic1tl nppJication of the mathematical principles to certain localities, whicl1 can be discussed only with the map of these localities before the (~yn.] q. 75. You say that the pccnliar met11ods l>y which you propose to overcome the dillicultics on the southern coust are mixed astronomical and gcodetieal operations. Are not such the general means used cverywlwrc in tlte s11rvc!y'! ANs. The means of l1oth urn difforcnt in the two cases. N. B. Here is to he i11serte<l tl11~ separate paper, which 1 handed in for further explanation. Q. 76. What is the ohject of the seco11d hase-1 ine '! ANS. rrhe verification of the whole work, which is the system of

all such works.

17
[Add. The second base forms ns much nn indispensable part of n survey of large extent ns the first base ; this is u ininciple in the science, well known by nll nccounts of lnrgc surveys.] Q. 77. If the object is to verify the survey, and suppose it docs not agree, what is the consequence? ANs. That the error, if nny, is to Le investigated. (Add. I had nddecl nncl corrected. This could, however, not be the case for any grent umount in a well conducted work, and a well conditionccl series of large triangles. There arc other data and results to be obtained and considered in such a completed system of a work, which arc well known to be dodncccl from it by the science, but which to treat here would require nu elementary theoretical nnd pructicnl deduction entirely out of pince. (i. 78. It is stated in one of your reports that the survey extends over 11,000 square miles: Is that mapped 1 ANs. Yes, to be sure. 'Q. 79. What benefits result to navigation by linving all the details of the topography of tho country? ANs. There is no more topogrnphy in the maps than what is necessary for that object. Q. 80. Cannot a portion of the topography be dispensed with without detriment to the object of n knowledge of tho coast for navigation 1 ANs. Not to thnt extent to which it is cnrricd now. I could not dispense with nny of the topography ns it is now done. Q. 81. Do not the hydrographical parties have to wait for those engnged on the topography'! ANs. They cnnnot go six inches without it ; but they do not wait: the topogrnphicnl pnrt. hns always been ahead. ({. 82. What distance from the cons!. have you cnrricd the soundings 1 Ami. Until they were out of sight of lnnd ; I mcnn the points given to them ns gnide; those points nre made to be seen ns fur us possible. We elevated signals thirty fopt or more. [Add. to 78, 79, 80, 81, 62. These <Jllm~tions conld he discussed long without ku<ling to any actnnl practical efli'ct. 'I'hcy nrc treated under tho general dm1omi11ntio11 of the q1w~1io11 of "Limitation," nskecl to be introdncc<l in tho work, in tho pap<'r nln~ndy hnndcd in.] q. 82. 'The Committee wish yon to Rttlt.c the time each year since the rccommencorncnt of the work in l R:32, n1 which you hn.vc tnkcn the Jield, and also tl1c time each pnrty has cornmenccd its work. Also tlrn whole m11nbcr of months occupied by yonrRclf in wnrki11g the main triangulation.

18
ANs. [Add. As I keep a regular journal every day, since 1811, when I left Schenectady for London, for all the time that I am in public employment, I can give exact account of every event of any moment; here follows therefore the extract from the journals referring to this question. My work in the office has always been the most arduous and laborious task, ns well in the combination of the scientific methods, devising the means, the calculations, and all the manifold parts of the administration or direction of the work. Any man of science in this practical line will see that easily.] Q. 83. You have sounded from Point Judith to Egg Harbor, along the coast. Have those soundings been extended us for out as you intend 1 ANs. They are complete for the detailed maps, but they have not been carried out so for as I intend. Q. 84. How much farther do you intend to carry the soundings? ANs. To the Gu If Stream. Q. 85. What will be the probable time required to extend the soundings, with the 8ame force now employed, so far as you intend? ANs. As this kind of work is to he done by astronomical observations, it depends entirely on the weather. Q. 86. Where arc the astronomical observations to be made 1 ANs. Of course on board the ship, or sounding vessel, according to special instructions given to Lieut. Gedney lnst summer. Q. 87. (By Mr. Wisc.) For the present, is it necessary in order to carry the survey South, to extend the soundings to the Gulf Stream 1 And ultimately will the survey of the coast not be complete without extending the sou11dings to the Gulf Stream 1 ANs. No, to the first clause of the question. As to the second clause, I answer, that the survey is in that respect ad libitum. Q. 88. (By Mr. Wisc.) By your answer to the second clause, nm I to understand you as saying that the Government mny carry the Survey ns for out in the ocean rLS it chooses, but that the survey as far as it goes wherever it stops will be completed? ANs. Yes. Q. 69. (lly Mr. Mallory.) Do you propose this or the next year to carry on these Gulf Stream soundings, by employing any of your present force '! ANs. Whenever any fit vessel is disposable, without otherwise impeding the work. Q. 90. (By Mr. Mallory.) Is it probable that any such vessel will be disposable for that purpose during this or the next year? ANs. It is likely, but it depends on the weather. [Add. to 91.. There is some miswriting to some of my answers to these questions.

19
Here I insert, ns explanation, my instructions given to Captain Gedney, in 1841 and 1842. It is evident to every man ncquninted with the Const nnd its approaches, that the district described in these instructions, forms the offings of the two ports of New York and the Delaware Bay ; the brig W ushington is considered a vessel well adapted for this work: she is in good mder for it. Q. 9 l Of how mnny points in the United States hnve the latitudes nnd longitudes been ascertained and verified in the courioe of the Survey? Ami. The cnlcnlation of the triangles in my work, gives in ultimate result the lntitnclc nnd longitude of each point of the triangles, primary and scconclnry, according to my special form of the work.
N. B. The end of my nORwcr ·honhl ·tnnd tht18: "Accur<linp; to my specinl/ommlafor the work." There aro other migwritinp;s in tho question an<l nnswor.

Q. 92. Of the points of latitude and longitude thus determined, how many have been mnde public '1 Ami. None; because it is not yet the proper time. Q. 93. Have you determined the latituclc nnd longitude of any points on tho Const? and if any, how mcmy and what'] ANs. I have ascertained the latitude and longitude of points on the Const ns well us inland, according ns tho triangle points foll. [Add. 'l'hese answers I consider sufficient, ns any detail discussions coulcl not lend to any useful result. There .arc slight misunderstandings in the writing, which nre of no moment, ns for instance, in 93, ascertained is not my, nor a proper, expression. Q. 94. Why have not the important points on the Coast thus determined, been mnde public 1 ANs. The time of the publicntion is, when the general account of the trinngulation is given, before which it will be of no use. Q. 95. Did the French, in the triangulation of their country, use mixed geodetical and astronomical observations '! ANs. Not in the form in which 1 have stated in the first part of my written explunntion. Q. 96. Do you regard the Survey ns n grent scientific enterprize, embracing delicnte problems of geodetic research, beyond what is necessary to nn accurate but rapid Survey of the Const for nnuticnl purposes 1 ANs. There is not a single movement in nll I do, which is not necessary for tho honorable nnd faithful execution of the work. Q. 97. (By Mr. Mallory.) Is it intended ns the basis of a topographical, military, and statistico1 Survey of the whole United States 1 ANs. That is the government's business, nnd not mine.

20 Q. 98. Is the Survey conducted now with a view to any such ultimate purpose 1 ANs. That is not given in my charge by the government, therefore I do nothing with it. [Add. to 94 to 98. These answers I consider as self-evident, and entirely of the domain of the science in one respect, and of the decision of the government i11 another. I have said upon it what was to be said by me, in its proper place in my Hcport of last December. If the work is not carried on with all the means that science dictates for its execution, it is worse titan useless and discreditable. I considered myself always bound to such a course as I have hitherto pursued, and have found myself always approved in this view, by the men best able to judge, and by those in the proper stations to decide upon it.] Q. !:HJ. W us not the secondary triangulation along the Jersey shore, found to be sufficiently accurate 1 ANs. Yes. [Add. So far as is expected from small secondary triangles. But, according to good principles, it must still be joined in its middle, by triangles across the country from the main triangulation inland ; this is a11 indispensable mathematical requisite.] Q. 11'0. Was not the muin triangulation through New Jersey made with a view to the topographical Survey of that State ? ANs. No. [Adel. It is well known, by my very first plans of operation for the work, that this was the only true course for the main triangulation.] Q. IOI. Cannot the Survey of the hays and rivers be postponed, without injury to the general work, till the Survey of tho Const proper is completed 1 ANs. It is impossible, because no accuracy could I.Jo got for the Coast. [Add. It is self-evident to any practical mathematician, and answered in n former question.] Q. lO:d. How many plates arc now in the hands of the engravers'] ANs. Of actual copperplates, two. Q. 10:3, Do they contain the whole mnp you are now getting ready for publication 1 ANs. No : the Map of New York Harbor will cover eight such plates. Q. 104-. Why arc not more preparing for publication 'J ANs. They arc in work ; in a few days we can cut off n few more. [Add. to 102-104. Are sufficiently explained. I may ouly add

21
now, 25th May, that a third engraver has just arrived from Philadelphia.) Q. 105. How many engravers have you in employ 1 ANS. 'rwo ; I would have if I hn<l the money. [ Ad<l. There is evidently an omission of some words in the statement of my answer.] Q. lOG. How 1011g have those two Leen employed ; and at what salary? ANS. Since last January or December; one at $1800, and the other at $1300 per annum. [Adel. This time includes in part the time used in the preparatory arrangements.] Q. 107. Where did you procure the copper for the above engraving, and where the engravers '! ANs. 'l'he copperplates now used were procured from Keim, in Philadelphia. 'l'he engravers from Humburg, because they were the Lest, 1md best rccor11111m1<led. q. 108. Cannot American engravers put on copper all ump engraving which has been put on paper 1 ANS. No. [Add. It is well known that the finer style of topography is not in practice yet in this country; my duty required that this pnrt of the execution of the work should be of Lest quality, to nuswer honorably the aim of the work in its fiiml appearance in the public ; therefore, I procured, with authorization of tho Treasury lkpnrtment, two men known in Europe alwndy in this line, from the quarter in best re11ow11 for tho appropriated style of those works, which will guide the style of the work nlso with tho engravers to be engaged hereafter.] Q. lU!l. What is tho ordinary amount of error in transferring from paper to copper '! ANs. In the wny in which I do it, there shnll he none. [Add. 'I1ho habitun.l Wtty iu common use is very had. To preserve the nccurucy obtained Ly the work of the Survey, the main points, which guide tho positions, arc brought npon tho copper by the same assistaut who makes tl10 drawi11g of the ump, whicl1 scemcs the accuracy. For the same renso11, nlso, the cngmving and the printiug must be made in the ofllec itself; where it iH do1w mueh more economically, under proper inspection, and not dilapidated.] Q. 11 U. 1-lavo the grossest errors in the position of places, stated in one of your reports to have been uscert1tined by you during the Survey, been pointed out l>y you for public information'!
4

22
ANs. They have not yet been made public, but will be when the works relating to these places are published. [Add. Whenever an interest was manifested for any part of the work, for improvements or otherwise, the extracts of the works desired were given, under the authorization of the Treasury Department, under whose decision all communications or publications arc to be made according to my agreement.] Q. 111. Arc the measures in the Survey taken in French metres 1 If so, why? ANs. Yes; because it is the only absolute standard; but the results are given in yards and metres both. Q. 112. In what parts of yards?· ANs. In decimal parts only. [Add. 'I'he principles of my action, in this respect, arc fully exposed already in my printed papers upon the Coast Survey, quoted before. The reduction to any other measure consists only in the addition of a constant logarithm; as for instance, that for the yards, and even for the miles, is given in my printed logarithmic and trigonometric tables. As all tha scales of the maps arc expressed by their fractional value, the distances upon the maps can be ascertained in any measure whatsoever, and by that means are really given in any measure whatsoever, which is widely different from the bad metlwd, so many miles to the inch, which has no regulur comparuble proportion. Q. 113. What reason is there why all the data must remain in your office 1 ANs. Because they are in daily use there. Q. 114. Have you nny reason to believe that the Surveys made by Captains Gedney, Wilks and Glynn, arc not sufficiently accurate for the purpose of navigation 1 ANs. I know nothing in regard to them. [Add. to 113, 11~. 'I'hese answers nrc sufficient.] Q. 115. Did the British officers survey the North Sea after the so.me manner that you arc now surveying the Coast of the United States'! ANs. I nm entirely unacquainted with what they did: there is nothing of it published. [Add. As far us known to me, nt least, in respect to the scientific. account of the work ; as there is nothing of it in the publication of the English survey.] Q. llG. You stated in your printed Report, that yon hnd accomplished now in a shorter time, and at less expense, more than had

23
been done in nny other work of n similar kind. With what works do you make this comparison? ANs. The English general Survey of England, Ireland and Scotland ; the French survey of the inland nnd coast of France. Q. 117. How many hours per day do your subordinate parties work in the field in favorable weather? ANs. As many as possible. Q. 118. Are there any data to ascertain how many homs? ANs. They keep un account uncl will answer as to this. [Add. The hours of work nrc immaterial to mc11tio11, as they all work with really libeml exertions for the best advantage aud promotion of the work, even with regard to economy. A well organized work produces much res111t, without appearing laborimrn.] Q, 119. Docs this Survey employ tho whole extent of your mathematical knowledge? ANs. No. [Add. My work in establishing the uniformity of Stnndnnls of Weights and Measures in this country, with more accnrney (I can safely pretend,) than other countries have it, are public documents which speak upon that. My vnrions books printed upon the elementary parts of mathematics, upon astronomy, tables, &c., might be looked at in the Congress Libmry, and if desired, I will show the manuscripts of other works not yet p11hlished. However my situation in early life had caused me to apply to diplomacy and jurisprudence, nn<l I occupied offices of high trnst in these branches to full satisfaction, as my papers may prove, my first entering into public life dating now over Jij~y-si:1: years ag:o, I must be excused to enter here in extraneous details, because I recollect very well, Mr. Mallory's question was geueral, wltether I knew sometltiug rnore than only tlw Coast S11rvey, without the limitation to mathematical.] Q. 120. Do yon think, tlmt under the most favorable circumstances, und with continuance of ll yearly 11pproprintion or $100,000, the Survey of the Const can be completed in twenty years'! Am;. Perhaps. 'l'hc progress is slower at first; and the means increase as the work proceeds. [Add. But the co11sta11t persecution to which the work has been exposed, and especially now is, impedes its progress very much; there is n damage now incurred by tho propositions of the last Cougress session, iu1d the present investigntioni.::, which have been occasioned by it, of positively upwards of $50,llOO iu delay of the work and accessories ; besides, tho disconrngcmcnt occasioned by it in all those persons, who nro engaged in the work, by their seeing

24 their liberal exertions rewarded by throwing out suspicions against them; these occasion a still greater damage.] The discredit thrown out in the public, uncautiously, occasions impediments with the people in the country, with whom we come in contact; they consider themselves equally authorized to ill-treat m, which makes the work difficult, and increases the expcuses beyond reason to no good purpose, and subjects to uncertainty.

HorrsF.

OF

JlF.1·1msF.!llTA'flVF.s,
c,,MJ\fER(,'E,

Coi\1Mrrnm-nooM oF

MAJlCll 12, 18·12. Sm,-1 nm clircctc1l by the Select Committee on the Con·! Survey, to re<JlleHI you to hold your·clf in rcu<line8~ to ntlcnd a summons from thl! Committee for the purpose of expluining the cuntlition of that work. They will meet tliis morninr; in ti"' Committee-room of Commerce, nt 10, A. M., mul 1m1y hnve occasion fur your prcsenco, if "'" they will scn<l n me8Hngc. llc~pcctfully, your olic<lt. Hcrvt., (Signe<lJ F. MALLORY, Chnirmnn. To F. R. lIAHsJ.Jm, Supt. Const Survey, Cupito\ Hill.

Ho11sF. OF Il.r-:r1tF.SENTATIVF..", COMMl'l''l'EE-ROO'l 01' CoMJ\IEllCl·'., MARCI! 17, 1842.· Sm,-Thc Select Committee on tho Const Survey nrc now in session, un<l re11uest your attendance this morning. Il.eHpcettully, your obdt. ·ervt., F. MALLORY, Chnirmnn. (Signed) F. R HASSLER, E:"l· Wnshiugton City.

Wt..Slll!llGTON CtTY, MAll<:R 3l, 18·12.

To the IlonornLlc FllANcrn MALLORY, Chnirmnn of the Commillcc of Invcstigulion upon
the Survey of the CoaHt.

G1rnT1.i:;-.rnN-Allow me lo htko the li)n,rty lo req1w1<l, 1h11l you nllow me, in nny form you mny find prnper, to i;et a full nn1hcntie copy of nil the interrogntorieA, 11ucstions and answers, which have been the result of my exnrninutiun. If you will ~llow it, I might then yet llll<l Hepurntely cxplnnnlions, or further informntion 1 which in the haste of the proceHH of procecdiugs 1nny have remnincd unclear. I have lho honor to he, rc·pce1fi1lly, Genllcmcn, your ohetlie11t scrvnnt,

F. R. HASSLER.
(COPY.)

Sm,-Thc Commiucc 011 the ConHI S111·vey lmvo rcquc~led Mr. St. E. Stone, to cxnmino the mnnus<.:ript Map8 of the IIarLor of New York, now in yo11r office. (Signed) F. MALLORY, Chnirmnn. F. R. JTAssrnn, E."£/·i Supt. Coast Smvcy. IIouec of Representatives, Mny 30, 1842.

25
Honomhlc FnANCis MAr.r,onv, Chnirmnn of tho Committco on tho Const Survey. Sm,-The unprovoked i11s11/t ofil!rcd to me by seniling the cu;:rnvcr ~tone to me, to in· spec! the work oi' the Cou·t ::\urvey in the Mnp of New York, i· too much ns well fur the
powt·1·s of the Co111rnittc1!, us for thl' fccling-N of nn horw!-lt 11m11.

Yo11 lrnow, tllllt thL· mups of ti"' Cou·t :-o;nrvey 1·nnnot be cngrnve<l, hut in the oHiec under my own iuspcctiou. You kuow that the mnp in q1wsliou, is nlrcndy ent up in plulcs, two of whidl nro undor tlie e11g-r11VP1''s hand~, nc·nrly Jini~hctl, two others j11Nt lJl'g-inning, for two n11lJ'C the drnwiu;: is ne111·!y finisli<:tl, n111l two 111orc nrc half fi11i"l"'il clrnwi11gs. You Imo\\~, thnt tho c11g-ruvt·1·, Stone, i8 in no wny 1111nliiictl to du sueh \Vurk, nor thnt I could be mndc n'"pun·ihle for 1t11y of his doi1ws. TJwuco you ennnot otlwrwi:-10 hnt conehulo, thnt thl' mcn~urc yon l>l'gin upon is dcstruc .. tiVe to the Work i therefore, to the exertions nni\ CX)>CnHeS hitherto incllrl'ei\ 1 uirect]y Ojl· 11ositc to tho nim profosseu by tho Co1111uiltcc to fovor the Co11st Snrvoy work. No man cnn cxpcel thnt 1, who nm an·wcrublc lur the WOl'k, coulcl he eompcllcd to givo tho finnl execution in the 11111111· of 11 mun in wlwm I l1111·u nol tho ·lightest rc11·on to hnvo
n.ny confi<lcnco whntcvcr.

I consi1!1Jr the Rendin~ of Stone, tu i11sprct 1111/ 1/'0rl, as lw ,,airljir.,t, u· 1111nieri1ccl inRult, nncl u111 eertuin tlmt e1·ery me1nlJCr of the C:um111ittec, phll'ccl in 111y siluution, would con· siclcr it so. Wiih re·pect 11nil go1Hl wiRlws,
Your ohcc..lionl scrvnut,
(Sig·nml) WASlllNO'l'ON CITY, 30th Mny, 18·1:.!.

F. ll. HASSLER.

\VA~TIINGTON C1TY, 3d JuNE, 1842. Honornhlc IsAAO E. Hor.MES, Member of the Committee npon the Coo·t Snrve)'. Srn,-Mr. Mullnry lmving rolllmnnientcd lo nw tho q11eHtio11s ndilre·"'"I tu mo in tho Committe<~, with JllY hn:-;ty 1111swert1 nt tho time, rwcordi11µ; tu tho 11g-rcc111e11t, in ort.for thnt I might uclu to my nn·wers the cxpltumlion· 11n1l exlcnsit>ns whi<'h they rcquir<·, 1 hnvo mnuc the proper nilditiuns 1111cl remnrks, nncl nil11i·il to them ·omu pnpcrs (copiL··,) which I !mu given into thu Couunitteu ut sumo timo iuternJ!luinto, with ne11rer pnrticuhu·s in somo in·tmH·es. Mr. Mnllory, Chnirrnnn of the Committee, hl'ing- now uhsent for n fortnight, OH ho sniil, I toko ihc liberty herewith to ndilrc" to you the imper resulting from these ndditions, for tho use of the Committee, most likely hc·l to eirrulnt<1 nmong tho mcrnllllrs to 1·n11·0 ns littlo clcl11y nM I cnn in tho lnbors of the Co111111ittco ton linnl cl1i.c, which would be ilc·~irnblo to

c11uhlc me to go to the field \vork, tinw ono11gh fur my plnnH or projeelA of thi!-1 ~cnt-1on. I s11pp1>Hc Mr. i':l!mm will hnv1· mnde hi· l'C]llll't upun his l':rnmi11ation vi' tho mnnu·cript

rnnp of New York, for which he llllH hcen sent to mu, in the nn111e of the Co111mi11ee. Mr. Mnllory hnM nl"' informed me, thnt I ·lmuld not let1VLl here, hL·enn"' the C11111mi1tco would cllll nw up in cx11111innti<>11 upon the works of tho \Veighl· nm! Mc11,11rP·. I, lhL'l'Oforo, nm now wuiting, n11Ll, like nlwn)'", in ren1lincs· lo 11nswl'r 111"0 upon this p11rt oi' my works. l hnvc tlie honor tu be, with pe1frct rc·pcd nn1l e>tcc·111 1 Sir, Your obt. 8Cl'VL., F. ll. IJASSLEH. (Sigued)

H<lu."t oF

ll1·:1·nE·J>NTAT1vr.s,

.Tu1.Y 15, 1s.12.

Sm,-I nm dircclml hy tho Cornmillc<' 011 1ho Const Survey, lo inlimn you, thnt your nt· tendunco beforo thu Co111111i1tec will not ngniu Le required, ltc"pc1·tr11ll)', yo·1rs, (Signed) F. MALLORY, Chnil'man. To Mr. F. Il. Ifass1.1m, 81111'1. Cousl Surve>··

ADDITIONAL PAPERS HANDED IN TO THE COMMITTEE.

I.
MAPS DELIVERED. DllAWN TIV.

1 Harbor of Bridgeport, Ct. 2 Newark Bay, N. J. 3 Harbor of New Haven, Ct. 4 5 6 7 8

Lt. G. S. Illake, 1-a-hll" 1 Lt. T. R. Gedney, Tll"="O" 18 , engraved. 1 Lt. G. S. Blake & T"ll"lllflr 1838, engraved. W rn. M. Royce, I Country between the Thames F. H. Gerdes, Tlr~ 184.0, Treas. Dep. for Hon. T. and Niantik, from the Sound W.Willams. up to Mohigan, Ct. I C. Renard, Sandy Hook Bar, T"ll"O"TI 1841, Treas. Dep. for (Mr. Pleasanton.) Thames River, topography F. H. Gerdes, . 'Irt"l!"O" 184.2, Treas. Dep. for Senator and Hydrography, Huntingdon I H. L. Whiting, TllOOll" 184·2, Topogra p. Sandy Hook Bar, Bureau. l Fisher's Second Sound and F. H. Gerdes, 'Ill""l!TI 1842, Treas. Dep. for Hon. T. the Entry of New London W.Williams Harbor, Ct.

-- 1835, engraved.
SCALE.

IJATI'! OJ' DELIVTmY.

II.
Times of my going to tlte field work, and returning from it, eacli year.
In 1832. September 25th, having received the instmments, I left Washington the 26th September, nt 8 o'clock, A. M. to reconnoitre for the continuance of my works of 1817, towards the east of it. Returned to Washington the 31st January, 1833, in the evening. 1833. April 5th, at half past 7 o'clock, A. M., left Washington for the first beginning of actual primrtry trirtngulation; returned to Washington on the 3d January, 1834, in the evening. 1834. After having finished all the prcpnro.tions, and comparisons for the measurement of the base-line, I left the 29th May, at 9 o'clock, A. M., having ma<le also stations; returned 25th January, 1835, in the evening.

27 1835. There being much calculntion to be made, and many arrangements for the organization of the parties, tho Stnte of Maryland having offored nn arrangement to join the survey of that State with that of the Const Survey, I went out only at different intervnls to reconnoitre the country in Maryland cmd until Washington, and the outer bays, accompanied by Mr. J. H. Alexander, of Baltimore, until late in the foll and winter. Details could be given if needed. 1836. The present office wns estnblished. I left 17th August, nt half past 7 o'clock, A. M., and returned the 8th January, 1837. 1837. I left Washington 4th June, at 8! A. M., nnd returned at half past 4, P. M., 5th January, 1838. 1838. I left Washington July 19th, at 8 o'clock, A. M., nnd returned 24th December, 1838, just at sunset. 1839. I left W nshington the 9th June, nt 7 o'clock, A. M., nnd returned the 5th January, 184.0, beginning of durk. 1810. I loft W nshington the 14.th September, nt 8 o'clock, A. M., nnd arrived again ut W nshington the 20th January, 1841: at 6 o'clock, P.M. 1811. I left Washing-ton at 10 o'clock, A. M., 29th August, and returned 22d December, 1841, at night. This enumeration shows how tho o1fico work }ms increased since the beginning, when tho work was stmting, and the clements for it were first to be collected in tho field. In tho further progressing state of the work, the calculations us well of myself as of the assistants, the reduction into maps, making of projections to take to the field for the topographical and hydrograpltical works, their plotting and working out, required ns much, nnd in most cases even more work from the nssistunts in the ofllco th1u1 out of doors. So thnt indeed the going out for the field work, is cousidorcd ns real relief from the harder works of tho office, ns well for mo as for the assistants. For what relates to rny assistants' time of goiug to the field work, they must be nskcd themselves. Signed, F. R. HASSLER.
Washington City, 30th March, 1842.

28
III.
I must add a more detailed answer to that question which asked me, "How I would proceed in the Southern Coast, where marshes, woods, &c., presented peculiar impediments?" I answered to it, "By mixed astronomical and geodctical observations." This question was followed by that, " ls that not more or less the case with all the Const Survey ?" This question showed that the nature of the scientific principles to be applied, and indicated by my answer, were uuknown. I ruust, therefore, explain; what is called in mathematical practice MIXEIJ astronomical and geodeticul observations, is, when both these elements concur in tlte same individual determination; this is the case in the application of a problem of practical mathematics, which I have applied in Swiserland, and in this country on Buttermilk Hill (to the full knowledge of my assistants,) to obtain the junctions of my works of 1817, with those of JH:33, in the beginning, wl1en I had not yet a new base-line, nor sufficient angles ; it was equally successful in both cases. It consists in-one geodetic line being given in position and length, the latitude of either point being known, the latitude and the angle which the line subtends from a third point being observed, together with the azimuth of either end point, to determine the place of observation. Prom such a result, new connections are then opened further onwards. This was what I was beginning to express, when I was stopped, under the denomination of entering iuto nrgnme11ts, which Mr. Cushing refused to hear. That I shoul<l expose it from its clmncntary principles, is what I am sure the committee cannot intcn<l, because it. is u problem, which joining both branches of science, would mg1irc long deductions of principles, almost an elementary work for persous not ucquuinted with the science. In the triangulation the two kinds of observations, astronomical and geodetical, arc disconuected; en.ch operation is separate, and they arc only compared to draw conclusions upon one another, for a new, different resnlt, required to place the Survey in gcuerul to its proper place upon earth ; therefore, the astronomical parts are only made at a few, properly selected places, nnd with general views for the work, not for details like iu the other case, so as I have stated in my answer to ciuestion 5, article 3, of my Report of December 2d, 1841. 1'Vashington City, March 30th, 1842. (Signed) F. H.. HASSLER.

29
IV.
WASlllNGTON CITY, MA!tCll

31, 1842.

Hon. FnANCIS MALLO!tY, Member of tho Commillee of Invostigntion of tho Const Survoy1 Sm,-The pressing cf the qnoslion· pnt lo mo in the Conunilleo, mu·! of course nlwnys lenve some 1111ill11mi11utc<l ~pols nfter tho cxuminution is over; I must, thorcfore, loko the liberty to supply ulwnys nfterwnr<ls. 1. Mr. Aycrigg osked pnrlicnlurs nhout: why I mcn·nre<l with tho metro ns unity! I will not dclny you hy nny detailed cxplunntion, but must tuko tho liberty to rcfor you to my report upon tho Coast ::lurvey works of Mny 17th, ltiJ.1, P·l, where tho subject is folly treuted; it stun<ls in pngc 1'18, uf the Isl vol. of Documents upon the Survey of the Const, printed by me in ll:i31. 2. Mr. Cushing sni<l, thnt the <liscovorics of dnngers in tho novigution of tho Sonnd Juul been kept secret ten ywrs, this is un eulirely erruucuus slalcmeul, tho work itself being even not us ol<l ns !hut; the Sound wus, of cunrse, worked Inter; the sounding pnrt wns mndo by Lieut. Dlnkc, U.S. Nuvy, """istaut in the Coos! Survey; I request thnt he \JI) 11ske1l pnrtil'ulnrly Lu cleor up this erroneous ·lntcment. 3. Upon the publicrLtion, or not puhlie11tiu11, of 1111y thing resulting from the Const Survey, '10 rr11ron.ch wlwtsoover can bo a11pl.:Cd to me, bccnuse b)' my contrnl'l with the Govcrmncnl 1 I am prohibited to eommunicnlo uny results, without orllcr of tho Treasury Dcpnrtmcnl. \Vhcncvcr 81lch orders were given, they wcro instuntly executed, us well known, sometimes even th1·y wern J>rovokcd by me, n111l given tu public ulliccs. My public n1·1·ounts ~howed !'cgnhirly every ycnr tho strrtc of the work, upon which nny cull could Imvo been gl'U11111led. l 111ust, in this "'"peel l'equeat 11gnin, tlmt my unswcrs to que"lions [I nnd 7 of my lust rt·porl be cunsidercd us inserted hero; nn<l ulso tho ~12, of my cunu11unic1111011 of :J3d Mol'ch Inst. 4. '!'he puhlicotion is of course n c.onseqnenco of tho Survey nu<l its rc1hwtion, ns well l>y e1ilcul>ition, ns to the mupping is u work nbsolntcly inturmmlirLto botwcun tho two, thereforo, tho means given by tho nppropriutiun nro lo bo di·Lrilmtcd in duo proportion botwoen them, nccur<ling to tho stole of the work, nnu tho mcuns on hmul by the existing oppropriotion nl nny spceinl t imo. (j, I wrr· uskcu, how mony hours tho ossislirnts worked per cloy . I unswcrcd, " as umny us tho dny nllows ;" (tlte work ca1111ot be made i11 oj/icr !tours,) this uddition, I believe, lllls !Jeon omillcd to ho written down, in fnct, nil my n··isllrnts, liko me, work from interest for tho work, nnd not ll· h irclings by the hour. G. When I got the copy of tho exumiuution, I may sco moro that I c1111 oxpluin ton bolter un<lorstonding of my nnswcrs, which 11my nppcur lo \Jo rc11uired. (Signed) F. R. IIASSLER.

v.
Upon tlte Question of Limitation of tlte Works for tlte Survey of
tlte Coast. 1. The limitntion to nny determined distnnce from the Const, would require that the mountains, which nre indiRpensubly neces· sliry for the station-points of the Survey, be within thnt limited distance. 2. This is well known 11ot to be the fact, therefore nlso, the limitation not adapted to the nature of the country, thence, this limita.tion would become impossible to be observed, if even decreed. 3. If even sma.ller elevations were found within these limits, which it might be said fit to ~ubstitute, instead of the greater ones, it would be improper to use them, otherwise than so ns they are
5

30
used now, namely, for secondary triangles, and the plnne-tnble operations. 4. These smaller elevations, from their too great proximity to each other, would occasion triangles by for too small, to give the accuracy required for the connections of the work. 5. The multiplication of the triangles would evidently also require a much greater length of time, to execute them, because every one of them would require as much time, and trouble, as one of the large triangles, which might cover 6 or 12 of these small ones. 6. With this increasing of the operations, the necessity of cutting through woods, &c., increases actually in still greater proportion than the triangles themselves, and these cuttings are one of the great difficulties or the work. 7. Such smaller triangles are even much more tedious to make properly, than the large ones, therefore, they consume each more time, and of necessity retard the work, by limiting the grouter strides which the freedom of the work at present admits. The improper increase of the expenses is self-evident. 8. Upon the !imitation of the work only in the topographical part, the same reasoning applies, as to the more extensive operations; the inland hays, rivers, creeks, &c., which are navigable, are all so winding, and very often hid in hardly approachable marshes, that to follow them, which often would he fully impossible, would necessarily toke up much more time than to survey them, by the general survey of the whole topograghy of the neighborhood. 9. How far, therefore, this topography shall, can, or must go, it is as impossible as improper, to determine beforehand ; without the special reference to any given locality, nothing can be said about it in general terms. 10. This reference to any given locality, can only be decided by the operator upon the spot, and the special superintendent of the work, o.s has always been done hitherto. 11.. The topography hns hitherto never yet been carried farther than the proper aim, and the principles of the work, require; on the contrary, in several instances, an extension of the work has been specially desired. 12. Any idea of limitation and distinction, between the different parts of the works, would never be understood by the uninformed people, with whom the operators in the work must come in daily contact in the field works, 13. Thence would result that any owner of lnnd, upon which an operator in the Survey would have to go, could explain this li-

31
mitation to his fancy, or interest, nnd attack him, drag him to jnil, nnd otherwise expose him to insult, und ill-treatment, ut his own option, us has been too often the case already. 14. That even this accessory incident cuuses much loss of time, nnd forms un netunl retardation of the work, is self-evident, as well as its expensiveness. 15. The topographical part appears by experience, to be that least objected to, by the inhabitants, to judge from the manner in which the operators have been received, in comparison with the difficulties that huve been laid in the way of the other parts of the work. 16. In general, n. limitation to three miles from the Const, as hn.s been talked of, is IL virtnnl abolition of the work itself, as well from the side of the natural, as the moral, difficulties it would snscitntc, and the impossibility of giving to the work the required accuracy; nor would any other limitation lie less injurious. 17. The shore line of n coast is never seen from a ship nppronching it; the picture of the elevated land, is what presents itself to the sailor; in this he is g-n i1lc<l hy so much of the topography, us can be seen ut a reasonable distance at sen, nnd this lies back in the country at distances, which are not <loterminahlc hut Ly nctual survey, thence the only rnle is, that which I have followed, and long ngo state<l, namely, tile "topography must go to the ridge of mountains which determine the heads of the coasting rivers, or creeks, or their passage through such mountains, what is cnlled in France, technically, le vcr.wmt de la l'a.lli!e rMiere," or, "le versant de la Cote." Such it !ins always been m1derstood and npproved. 18. My rule of action and gui<lc in the work, must ho my contrnct to make tho work " honorably and perm.ancntl.1J usejul, to the nation." The wny to obtnin the nim must be left to me ; if I was to be guided hy n11y foreign direction, except nmthcrnaticnl principles, some of my assistants might even rise up 11gainst mo, refusing to do what they might think to exceed my powers, and I would either have to dismiss them for such refusal, or the work would become impossible. 19. Hitherto the work hns proceeded in hnrmony, nnd with nll good willing exertions on the part of every one; if such liu<l not been the liberal action of all in tho case, not half the work would he done, which actually is done. 20. The attempts to find causes 1or change in mr nrrnngcmcnt, by the resolution of the last CongTcss session, a11d tho prcscut Committf"'c, have o.lrc:irly c1111s0d a grPat d:imng-1'.

UPON CHRONOMETRIC OPERATIONS.

1. The name of Chronometic Survey is a complete misnomer, chronometers cannot survey. The determination of any point on earth by chronometric, or any other operation, requiring the knowledge of the time, requires three different determinations. 1st. The latitude. 2d. crlw time. 3d. Some phenomena by which tJ1e time becomes comparable with that of another place; ·or in absence of an actual phenomenon a given quantity, or proportion, by which the time of the place can he referred to that of another place. (N. B. When I was Professor at the Military Academy, West Point, 1807-1809, I made a full deduction of this subject by which I instructed some cadets in it.) 2. Chronometers determine only the time of n place, and to do that requires astronomical observations, generally made with inferior reflecting instruments. The longitucle, any how deduced, needs determination of latitude, to determine a point by their intersection. All the results, whatever, depend on the measurement of the altitude of celestial observations at sen, which are subject to unavoiclnble errors of several minutes. 3. The determination by chronometers must be very frequently repented, if any even approximate result shall be obtained, for one single point; therefore, these results remain, what may be cnllecl, swimming, for many years, or in fact, ruthcr aro never exactly determined, while on a Coast the most mi1;J.ute and fully certain determinations are indispensable. 4.. The distance that might be concluded from such determinations, woulcl have to be calculated from astronomical clements reduced to the earth's surface, which cnnnot be clone with any thing like an n.ccurucy that can be inclicated in any of the linear measures, so us to ground upon it an actual survey of the form of the Coast, road, or any thing like what tlic survey rer1uircs to determine, suppose a shoal, lock, or any other individual point o[ interest. 5. It is well known, that we speak of the time of Washington, Philadelphia, or such, without distinguishing which part of tl1ese places the time shall ripply to; the chronometers, perfoctionecl ns

33 they pretend to be, un<l referred to the necessary observations, which makes indication compuruble with the actual time nt the place, cannot s!tow any distinction between these difforent parts, by any possibility whatever. 6. How many vessels have there room to wreck within, suppose, the precincts of W nshington, Philadclphio, or any such city 1 thence, nn instrument which cannot distinguish such distances, is positively 110 surveying instrument, besides, it determines no linear distances, while the rocks, shoals, or other dangers that mny make n shipwreck, arc generally small, nnd, therefore, their determination must be very accurate. These determinations must be guided by accurate survey upon the shore, where alone o. survey is possible. Chronometers und sextant arc for that entirely unnvnilnble. 7. In my answers to question 15, of my last Report, I have in few words discarded all these ideas, they would not deserve more o.ttention than there, with o.ny man intimate with the scientific principles implied in the ca1'e. 8. 'l'o make u11y chronometric determination between points on land, it would be necessary to have a well determined and active astronomical observatory near the sen shore, (u condition which does not exist in this country,) where the time is ut any instant determined within the dccimo.l of o. second ; from this, chronometers, the rates of which nre determined there with the minutest accuracy, would hnvc to go off to any point that is to be determined, and return back to it in the shortest time possible, us for long times they cannot be trusted. Chronometers indicate only u time, or mthcr a pince in their revolution, which mnst, by observation of celestial bodies, be referred to what is called the time of the pince ; (for which generally reflecting instruments arc used by free hnud.) 9. The latitude of that point of observation must be exactly known, und observations of time made there, and calcnluted, all to the greatest minuteness, and during scvernl <lays, for each single rcsu It, of which a great number must be collected before it is ullownblc to cull them a determination. 10. The repeated voyages which this opcrution requires, consume of course u great length of time, and proportionate largo expenses, to produce ut last only lt very vague approximation, us this is well known in the science. 11. Every such <lctcrminution is dependent us to the cltronometcr, of three circumstances of its rate, besides all the chances of the uccurucy of the observations, which arc very bud, and well known ; the first rate, at the observatory, can be determined for the time it is there. lt is more di1iicult, but still to a certain degree, possible,

34

to determine the rate at the station to he determined. Bnt, the third rate which the chronometer may have had during the traveling, is positively undeterminable, o.nd a mere chance ; as it is well known that all chronometers alter their rntc between being quiet and traveling, by the number of repetitions only a mean between all these evil chances is obtainable, and never any certainty. 12. Between such a collection of uncertain, disconnected points, it is directly impossible to survey details, which however are evidently the most important part of the work, for less to determine the place of any soundings. 13. On board ship horizontal angles can never be measured wi1h the accnracy required to determine other points from them ; they can only serve to determine the momentaneous position nf a vessel, when taking an individual sounding, and no farther. A vessel ever so well at anchor, even with three anchors, pres0nts always the lens on an inverted pendulum, oscillating from the points where the anchors touch the ground; it cannot avoid considerable play. Vertical angles between the horizon and a celestial body, are the only observations admissible on board ships, referring to a point upon the earth; that these arc snbject to several minul!!s' uncertainty by the variation of the refraction, and other such causes, is too well known to allow any man of information to pnt them in any way in comparison with observations on the la11<l. Lunar clistanccs need not be quoted, they arc the same on board ships, and on land, only requiring more skill in the fir1;t case. Bnt nlso, no man whatsoever won Id think, nor has ever thought, of applying them to surveying in either case. 14. By the above it is evident, and experience has often proved it, that the absolute error between two near points, is subject to be as great as that upon any large distance; this again makes it the less applicable for any use in actual surveying, nor has it ever been pretended to determine srrmll distances on earth hy the measure of the time. 15. The geographical position of the Coaf1t of the Unitecl States, is eminently contrary to any chronometric determinations, and in general any determination from astronomical data, the chronometer is within certain limits but an uncertuin tool, the whole dependence must be upon the observatio11s, which are subject to miles of error, by no means admissible in an actual survey. The greatest part of the coast follows, with great varieties of indentations, or variations, so near the same meridian for considerable distances, 1hat the chances of the chronometer's failings are greater 1han the nctnal difference of the longitude of the points to be determined.

35

Ju. Thus (sec in tho map,) 1st. From oust end of Loug lslnnd, the many indentures of the New England Const, are nlmost all in the cnso. 2d. From New York nnd Sandy Hook, south through Jersey, &c., till to nbout Cape Huttorns, tho gradual and tolerable regular lino is again so nonrly in tho sumo meridian, that the observations with chronometers could not foil to give indentures which do not exist. 3d. From Charleston to the Florida Capes, the same thing is the cuso ns in No. 2. 4th. Long Island laying more east and wost, could get better distances to determine by chronometers between u few points, but nothing would be obtained by it for all its bays, and important points of shipping rmd navigation, (this part of the work is now done.) 5th. '!'he snme is, but far less fnvornbly, the cnso between Cape Hntterns and Charleston. Supposing such parts to be intended to be fillod up, with tho necessary details, between two chronometric points, this becomes entirely impossible, from tho wnnt of accuracy of thnt very base determined by sextant and chronometer, with their chances of inaccuracy .. 17. Chronometers and reflecting instruments render good services nt sen, where nil other meru1s fail, but within such limits only us arc there required, as the highest G to 10 miles, which is suflicient nt sea, where from the mast of n common vessel, a horizon of 10 to 12 miles diameter is discernible. This chance is entirely inadmissible in a Survey of a Coast, where the details of position of lnnd, shonls, dnngers, &c., arc tho most essential, nnd which can never be determined at all by chronometers and similar means. 18. It is, therefore, evident that the Survey must be performed upon the land, bccnuso there is no possibility to determine distances upon water, in n.ny wny admissible with tho aim of tho Const Survey. How for land inwards this Survey must go, cvon for tho most simple requisites of tho gross navigation outside, is determined by the mnlrn of the lund, it is not admissible to designate or limit their extent. '!'ho sen.man never sees the shore line when ho approaches land, he always sees only the farther distant olevntions, by which ho reconnoitres himself, thence tho views added always to the charts, which show him the vertical appenrnnccs. When he comes so fnr ns to see the nctuul shore line, he is lost. He will find himself thrown upon it, before he is nwnre of it. 19. There is no compounding with mathematical principles, when they shall be applied to a determined practical aim, nny deviation from them lends incvit11bly to a complete failure. So, if it is the question of detcrminiug distances nnd positions, lines and ru1glcs

36

only cnn determine ~them, nnd these must be employed from the simple chain and compass operations to the highest branches of astronomy. The Const Survey must ground all its operations upon them, nnd in such a manner as to obtain the highest possible degree of accuracy; if there is a deficiency of accuracy in one of the essential parts, it would increase to a complete distortion of the country in the sequel of the work, if suffered to continue to exist. Without these primary requisites of the methods used, the proper success of the Survey of the Const is positively impossible. 20. All plans grounding upon chronometers for surveying, are fallacious, and by any attempt towards them, an immense expense would be incurred before even any work could be done, and never any standing results are obtainable ; that is strictly mathematically proveable. At the renewal, 1832, under these very naval plans, the very author of them told me of such a number of steamboats to put into activity for it, ns the purchase nnd equipping with instruments and other effects, would have for exceeded the amount of money, that has been spent as yet in the Coast Survey, nnd its outfit with instruments and all, under my direction; for which results are exhibited permanently useful, and honorable to the country, ns my contract enjoins to me, nnd a stock of property is acquired of high value and utility for the future ; while by the plans, which it nppcnrs nn idea started up to revive, certainly not four points of the Coast could have been determined with due reliance for the nim of the work. Sufficient proofs have been administered by other works, which arc kept out of sight, to attempt to mislead always equally, and to mar the success of a work, which can succeed only by science, divested of all private interest. 21. The boasting up of chronometers by their makers, must not be taken as a true guide, a light reflect.ion reduces the flourish to its proper level. A chronometer maker for instance, brags of one of his chronometers having hnd the price, or preference among a number of others; this chronometer bears the No. 867, or such like, number, the government of England bought it, thence clearly it cannot be considered as a recommendation for any other person to buy any of tlte ot!ters, ns, 1st. 'rhe choice can now be only among those which were not able to compete. 2d. The high number of the successful one, indicates of itself a very unfavorable chance in the purchase. In England, it is oven considered, that one third of the chronometers made, are good for nothing at all, and the full success a mere chance. 22. The determination of the longitude of Madeira by means o1

37
chronometers, made by Dr. Tinrks, is often attempted to be held up for the accuracy of such like determinations ; the following true remarks will set this clctim to rest. 1st. 'l'he only communication between London and Madeirn was by water, aud the determination implied uo line of coast whatever; it reduced itself to knowing the difference of time nt two places, or cities, in the manner quoted above; the minuteness required between two near places on either coast was 110 cousiderntio11. 2d. Of twenty-eight chronometers which Dr. 'l'iurks hnd, only three proved so ueur ns to be udmissible in the result; the other gnve no admissible nppronch. 'l'he lnst, or rather ns Dr. 'fiarks wrote to me, only ono fully admissible, the Admiralty bought; the others, I suppose, will not be found recommendable for the aim of the Coast Survey, which requires so much miuuteuess. 23. Details and accounts to tho same effect and result might be multiplied up to the present time, but it would be altogether superfluous, the accounts of the very best chronometers, and the highest authorities upon the subject, may be taken from the Astro11omic1tl Journnl (Astronomishc Nachrichtou) of Mr. Slmmaeher of Altona, all which will fully support even the minutest pnrts of the above statements. 24. Upon the real principles thnt science dictates for such works as the Coast Survey, tlte introduction of tlte nnnouncement of the new map of France (here joined,) treats shortly from the most uuthentic sources. The difference between the two works, is no other, thun the greater dilliculty of the Con.st Survey, on account of the coasting Jund being accessilJJe only from one side. 25. When in 1818 my agency in the Coast Survey was destroyed, by influences over which the veil may remain, the Navy Department undertook it by partitioning off the Coast, nud establishing works of which for several yenrs appeared in the newspapers the notice, " The Coast Survey goes on gloriously," until pressed too hard, the trnth made itself vent, by its own elnsticity, and the expense of many hundred thousm1d dollars, woke up attention. The annual report of the Navy Department of 1828, giving account of this brunch of the service, stated in final conclusion : "Nor can such Surveys be mude without the aid of tho menus contemplated by the act of 10th February, 1807, to provide for surveying the Coust of the Uuited States," which was proposed to be renewed agciin. But it. lasted until 1832, before its passage could be obtained again in Congress. 'l'he particulars of the epoch from 1818 to 1828, remain us yet private to the Navy Department, without any public report, or maps. 6

38 26. The proposition of the Navy Department of 1828, was accompanied by a report, which is printed in the Congressional Documents of the time, made hy Commodore Rodgers, (then yet in good health,) grounded in principle upon my previous plans, adopted already in 1807, and approved by the men of science in Europe, in their reviews of my papers upon the Coast Survey, printed in the Philosophical Transactions of Philadelphia, of 1825. 27. When it was evident in 1832, that the law renewing that of 1807, would pass, it appears that the naval officers prepared these reports, which arc now asked for; hut the President had proposed to me, to take up the work again, and my plans and propositions were renewed long before I had any knowledge of them. It is remarkable in them, that the same Commodore Rodgers, who had written the reports of 1828, at that time recommended, as chief of the Navy Commissioners still, these snme plans, especially for their exclusive quality of being executable by the navy alone, without any reference to their scientific qualifications, and adaptedness to the work in view, and its aim; and in despite of the many strikingly evident impossibilities which they contain. F. R. HASSLER.
Survey Station, Piue Ifill, Glouccater Co1111ty, N .·T., November W, 18,12.

Honorable

F1tANOI8 MALLORY,

WASHINQTON 0ITY, MARCH 23, 1842. Ch~irme.n of tho Sele.et Committee of Investigation of the

Ooast Survey. Sm,-Among the qm:stions put to me in the Committee's meeting, theru wos one, at least, which appeared much insisted upon, ond by <;iroumstonces wos rather discussc~ than on· &wered. · 'lt 1J<Jemed to put in doubt the propriety of the journals, and other works of the Coast Survey, to rem11in in thu Coast ·survey oflicQ, and requesting t\1em to bo cleliverocl to the Treasury D·partment for safety. I here supply more distinct nnswors. 1. This office;· here, ls one of tho otnces 'of the Trensury Department, exnctly as much as any of.the rooms ln the Treasury Builcling itself. 2. Tbe exten!ion of the Treasury Department works has rendered necessary u number of other offioes out of the yot unfinished Tr·ensury Briilding proper; so is this otllce. 3. The foreign Standnrcls of W tJights nnd Mo~nsures have just now been transported from the Treasury Building to this office, for their mol'e proper and more appropriate safe keep· ing. 4. There ore three houses adjoining each other, rented by the Department, two nt the expense of the Coast 8nrvey, and one at tho ex·pense of the Weight and Muosure works i and the foundry'estobliehment, besides, is nc.ro·~ tho ~trect. 5. Tho total of tho buildings ndapted tl;cmsulvos so pcculinrly to tho use of both works, \hat no building in this city could, in nny woy, llquul the conveniences they afford by their present distribution. 6. Various urrangemcnts hove boen mode, at public cxponsc, as well os the expense of tho owner, to adapt lhcm tho better. Ono story WllS ulovullld '10 procure druwiug-rooms superior to any I know' of; for better security tlw roofs have ·been slated, and, in genernl, every arrangement mndo for convenience nncl security. 7. In every one of tho three L>uildings, which connect all through with one another, two persons ot lu11st slce11; these are assistants, clm·k, workmen, and .I myself, so that tho buildings nre well watched nil night. . 8. The maps and m11ny other vnluohlo ohjects nm plaood so that oven in the extreme case of fire, thoy would be saved with the gromtcsl cn·o. 0. The whole of the Const Snrvoy work must, in nil cnscs, ond nt oil times, L>e of tho ensiest occesg, nny, present, durinlf the whole time thnt the work is golng on, slill more so than in any other.office such muy be roqnirud. 10. In rol(uiri11g placu in the Trcusury Building only to deposit the foreign stnndnrda, wl1ich lutd boon exjmngcd from tho Stnlo Depnrtmomt to tho Potent Office, whero thoy were exposed to damngc, I could not got n well apprupri1\led plnco for want of room. 11. Tho luwer vnults uf tho Treasury Building, whqro I got n pince to deposit tho Weight ond Measure Stnndnrds, pocked up, nnd nut y1·1 sunt oil; ooulcl nut hut with diffi· oulty bti got, and such on one would not du, hce.nuso of thoir nut buing sulllciently clry and airtld for paper; the mops cspocinlly would ho utturly 1lestroyud. 12. To displace the works from the olfictJ wuultl be lnying groat impediment il1 the way of tho work, and expose the ]>Orts dopoRitcrl to dila71idritio1' a11d ah11se. 13. Every limo thut 11 corlRin syiitomntically full pnrt of the work, between two base lines, nnd two nstronomicnl stnlions, will be exucutod, a foll rt!porl will be mncle, oncl it is hoped publi·hed by Congress, which will rest !hut pi>rt foruvor, nnd then tho Documents of thnt part may be plncud in some ·p<minlly solectotl pince of deposit, as original record ; but until thot time they mu.·t r·mai'n'in tJrc ollioe in which they originate. 14. It would be the most etlcctive mode of clcnring op any subject whatsoever, that may be desired, and come in question, if the Commilloo would l>c ·o kind ns to come over to the office, which ls eo near the Capitol, end v lait all the parts of tho work, os they are in ac· tivity, and constantly in evidence for every viaiter. (Signed) F. R. HASSLER.

will

ELEMENT ARY REMARKS. 1. The second in time, which is the unit of the kind of quantity which the chronometers indicate, is 15 seconds in the arc, in the rotation of the earth, which measures the time. One second in the arc of a great circle on the earth's surface, is 98 or 100 feet English, therefore one second in time would, and at the equator docs, subtend about 1500 feet; this diminishes with the increase of the latitude, in the ratio of the cosine of the latitude; in the mean latitude of the coast of the United States this is about from 72 to 66 foot for each second in the arc, and the error arising from one second in time would be 15 times that: namely, from 1080 to 1300 foet. Such determinations are therefore rather less accurate tha11 the distances obtained by observing the difference of velocity between light and sound. 2. This exhibits the chance of error in distance to which one single second of the chronometer subjects in longitude. Ilut the time of a chronometer, in relation to the actual time at its place on earth, depends on observations of altitudes of the sun, if observed at sea with a reflecting instrument, for which generally only sextants arc used; this altitude is subject to an error of from 3 to 5 minutes, or miles, independently of the errors of the instrument and observation, from the mere uncertainty of the refraction, and similar causes, which therefore multiplies by so much the uncertainty of the observation by which the chronometric determination of time is affected, independently of the vacillating rate of the chronometer itself. 3. But the best chronometers even do not assure the accuracy of one second in time; the deviation of the chronome1er over this, forms therefore the factor by which all these errors are 'fnultipl,ied; that they are too great already without this multiplication, is evident enough. How any man in the least ucguainted with the exigency of the conscientious execution of the Coast Survey, and th~ elementary principles given by the science, could hesitate an instant between the choice of such means as chronometers, &c., and those which exact and well known principles of mathematics lay so directly before us, by trigonometry, is incomprehensiLJe. Who will ever trust the map of a coast grounded upon so vague determinations?

40 4. The above discussion of the accuracy possibly obtainable in the longitude of a point by chronometers, refers only to the one line of the determination required to locate any point of tile survey, by which a point of sounding or any other locality is determined. To complete its determination it is necessary to determine the distauce of the parallel from the equator, by its intersection with the circle perpendicular to it, namely, the circle of latitude, or the meridian of the place; which in itself is already, as stated, the clement indispensable to locate the point in the pnrullcl to wliieh these errors refer; this is determined as above stated, by ohservntion::i of nltitucles of celestial bodies, the uncertainty of which at sclt is by no means overrated when, as above set clown, at 3 or 5 miles, that is 3 or 5 times GO seconds, each in that case, of 98 or 100 feet in length, or from 1800 to 3000 feet. 5. Taking now the chances of error of the best cl1ronometers, which are rated by late experiences to at least 3 seconds in time, in the mean latitude of the united Stntes, to suppose 80 feet per second in the arc, the product of this 15 times or 1200 foet for each second, which gives 3o0U feet chance of error, we have a (llllldrilateral resulting of 3600 feet in one direction, and from 3 to 5 miles in the other, within which the point to be determined is uncertitin, under the most fuvoruble circumstances; any closer accuracy is a hazard not to be in any way calculated upou. G. These calculutions and considerations bring the determinations by reflecting i11strumcnts and chronometers, to what I have stated in my other paper, to Le yet within the visible horizon of u ship at sea, that is u diameter of between 20 and 30 miles ; thence comes the conclusion, that chronometers are good seaman's tools, where this accuracy is suflicient, us in a discovery voyage, where never more than a tolerable approximation is expected, and in other similar cuscs ; but they arc unable to give any determinations admissible in the determination and delineation of the coast, on account of their want of the accuracy required in that case. 7. 'rhe idea of dcterrni11ing the head lands and principal points of the coast, by observations requiring chronometers, as an instrument to determine a place upon earth, and principally for the Const Survey, and then introduce between them the details, by separate gcodcrical surveys, is positively impossible; for when the first determinations, upon which the others must by principles be grounded or relied upon, are so uncertain us the chronometric detenninutions evidently are, the details can impossibly be made to fit between, and making them separate works, to be tried to fit between these uncertain points, would require either to destroy the accuracy of the geodetic

41
works, or to be obliged to repent the whole of both operations, to ascertain where the errors lie, and attempt to correct the results, which it is impossible to do by the first operations, with decided accuracy; thence everlasting repetitions must follow and always yet leave uncertainty. I stated, in my other paper, the unvoidable uncertainty of the chronometers, derived between points on land by the un<lcterminable rntc of them during any moving of them. 8. Perhaps it may be yet attempted to quote from my own plan of operations of 1807, that I spoke myself about chronometric determinations. But it must be observed: that at that epoch the intention of the government upon what the Survey of the Const should be, was just to he ascertained, therefore it was proper for me to state what I did state, to ascertain these very intentions, by the choice which the President would make of the means proposed. The President, Jefferson, being a man of science, selecting the real scientific course, the mode of executing- tho work wns for once and all decided, by invariable mathematical principles; nll arrnngements were made, the proper expenses have been incurred, nn amount of property appropriated to these aims is on hand, amounting to upwards of $120,000, ns I stated in my report, in answer to the questions raisr.d in Congress Inst year. 9. The satisfaction of that late President, upon the principles and their application, which I explained and exhibited in the Transactions of the Philosophical Society of Philndolphia, printed in 1825, can be seen in tho letter of Ex-President Jefferson, of 3d December, 1825, to me, in the first volume of the Documents of the Const Survey, printed in l 834, page 49 and sequel. F. R. HASSLER.
Pine !Jill, Gth December, 18,12.

N. B. These two Inst papers nre un extension of the one given in to the committee, which appeared required for u better understanding of the subject.

'I1RANSLA TION.
New Topographical Map of Prance, adapted to all tlte public services, and combined with the operations of lite Cadaster.
The project of the operation to which the attention of the chambers, and the public, is herewith called, has been submitted to the examination of a committee of fourteen members, presented by the ministers of the interior, of war, of the navy, and of the finances; and the first dispositions agreecl upon by this committee, have already been honored with the approbation of His Majesty. An undertaking presented under such happy auspices, might be dispensed with, quoting other suffrages ; as, however, this undertaking belongs to the exact sciences, we shall here begin by presenting an abstract of the opinion of the Marquis of Laplace, upon the project of the law relating to the finances, for the service of the year 1817. The striking coincidence which will be observed between the general views of this illustrious mathematician, and the whole of the plan here proposed, no doubt, will make, that no man will view the expenses as useless, that are necessary to put it in execution, particularly when consitlering that rigorously made calculations show, that the pnblication of the work would produce several millions over and above the expenses.

Ex·tract of the Opinion of Marquis of Laplace.
(Chum her of Peers, Sc88ion lHlG, Friuny, 21st Murch, 1817.J

"To survey with accuracy the map of a kingdom, there is but one method, which unfortunately has not heen followed in the operations of the Cadaster. It consists in forming two great lines perpendicular to 0110 another, the one north and south, the other east and west. 'l'he wliolc space or country to be surveyed is covered by a net of great triangles, that arc attached to these lines. Subdividing afterwards these large tria11gles by secondary ones, the work is brought down into the details of the communities, townships, &c. Thus the partial surveys arc restricted in their deviutions by tho triangles, that circumscribe them, the faults of the surveyors arc discovered and corrected. By this is obtained o. system of opero.tions,

43
good in its detnils, nnd perfect in its union. Prnnce hns for the execution of such a system all the means that may be desired : tho men of science the most able to direct it, a very well informed corps of geographical engineers, who have ulrendy made what exists the best in this kind of work, and to which officers of artillery nnd engineers can be joined. The Caduster oficrs them the most favorable occasion to exercise themselves in these operntions, which they shall execute in time of war. "In this manner Prussia continues upon the other side of the Rhine the topogrnphical works of our engineers ; it cannot follow better models. "Already one of the fundamental lines of which I have spoken traverses France from Dunkerqne to Perpignnn. A perpendicular directed from Strnssbonrg to Brest is begun ; the first of these lines truced with the utmost nccurncy has been extended over the Pyrenees, till to the Island of Forrncntnrn in tho Mediterrnnenn sea. By the favors of the libeml cares of the minister of the interior for the progress of the sciences, this line will be extended to the north till to Yarmouth. Colonel Mudge, who surveys the mup of England and Scotland, upon the plnn that I have quoted, with cquul zeal nnd ability, will unite with the F'rcnchmcn of science in protracting jointly our meridian. The extent of this system comprehends an nrc of about one seventh of the distnncc between tho Equntor nnd tho Pole. The lntitudes of its extreme points hnve been observed, and those of several intermediate points, and the leugth of the second pendulum corresponding to these points, hus been measured, which gives a great deal of light upon the figure of the earth, and the inequalities of its degrees nnd of the gravity. " I wish the ministers may please to tnko into consideration the plan that I propose. It is possible to ndupt to it the pnrt of the Caduster already done, and to execute the same without delay in the operation, and without increase of expenses. Perhaps even the great number of geographical engineers, which our present state of pence allows to employ in this work, to which it is painful to see them strangers, would render its execution more prompt and less expensive. "But a commission, appointed by government, to give it light upon this subject, would tnko the proper necessary informations for its decisions. It would examine how for the reproaches of negligence and incapacity, made to various ageuts of tlw Ca<lastcr, arc grounded. It would indicate the means to accelerate nn<l perfect it. "After having, in the formation of the great map of Ji'rnncc, given to other nations un cxumple, which they follow carefully, let us not

44
be inferior to them ; let us not retrograde while they advance. Let us retain among us the glory of the sciences and of the fine arts ; this glory, sweet and peaceable, has the advantage to be susceptible of increase without diminishing foreign glory, nnd to interest all nations by procuring to them new enjoyments." The Marquis of Equevilly, Director of the General Depot of the War Department, has equally called the solicitude of the Chamber upon the undertaking of so high an importance, as an accurate topographical map of France is for all the public services, nt the epoch when he presented the plan, of which a sketch will be given hereafter, the same as the immortal author of the mechanic of heavens, and his station has rendrrcd him the most able to judge upon this subject, by the various public services to which he has been called.

!7th CoNG1l!:ss 1 3d Session.

Ho. or REPs.

---·----

-

·-

COAST SURVEY .

FEBRUARY

· 9, lS43.
Rtpre!cnt111ivt~ .

Printec1 liy order of the House of

·
Mr. AYcnran, as an individual member of the Committee on the Coast Survey and of Weights and Measures, with the consent of the committee, reports his views and conclusions drnwn from tho testimony taken 'before said committee, nnd from the reports of the snperiutendent'of the coast survey, as folio ws :
(1.) Thar the original object of the work hns been lost in tho extensive operations of the coast survey, which incl.ude much work unnecessary for the purposes of the nttvigator. (Page 7.) (2.) That triangulatiou is the most accurate mode of making the survey so much desired, wherever the features of the country present the proper elevations, aud that this trinngulntiou depends on the measured base. (Page 8.) · (3.) That the;, measured base" on Firn i.-lnnd is not the" actual base," .aud that its exact length bas ne\·er been ginm. T!Jat t.he "actnal base" is the co.lculnted side of a triangle, of which only one side (the measnred base) is measured, and that the "monumcut» is not placed at tho 011cl of the measured base, :rn we should, infer from Mr. Hassler's repol't of 1834-'35, bnt at tile end of the" actual· base;'' and that the length of the ''actual base" has not only nevel' been measured, but prnbably never can he;' and that, even supposing it possible to find the ea.stern termination of tho measnrecl huse by a lt'ia11gnlatio11 that admits of error, to find a point which was left by triaugnlatiou that also admitted of inaccuracy, still we cannot measure from tliis poi11l to tlic other extn1mity of the base, on account of the washing away of the beach: iwd, eonsell,Uently, that we call never verify even this pan, the foundation of the whole work, which is placed upon n mo\·ing sa11d bur called Fire island, exposed to t.hc oceau, between high and low water mark. (Page 9.) (4.) That the longitudes of the different pal'ts of the surrey have not been yet obtained. (Page 11.) · (5.) That the secondary triangulation has gone far hcrn11tl the limits of the primary triangnlatio11, am! that the pri:uary has Ill' vcr yet been veri-

fied. (Page 12.) (6.) That we have not even the compass beariugs, and, cp11soquently, two of the three important parts of a clrnrt (viz: lougitnd11 aud compass bearings) being wanting, uud tile surn~y 11ot tested, we can ns yet hRve nothing cel'taiu; bnt stilt that this approximation should be published.
(Pa~e

13.) (7.) 'fhnt Mr. Hassler has taken lint !!O primary statious for tho whole time since he began, while the European works show u very different. state of things. ( Puge 13.)

2

Rep. No. 170.

(S.) That Mr. Hassler remains in his office, and proposes to use the sec:.. ondary surveys to find primary station points, in place of looking for them himself, and pushing on the main triangulation at least as fast as the secondary. (Page 14.) (9.) That the secondary covers 11,000 square miles, while the primary covers but 3,577, although the primary is broad in proporrion to its length, while a part of the seyondary runs in a narrow strip along the .Jersey coast. (Page 14.) (10.) That ve.r trifling causes are taken by Mr. Hassler as good ground to excuse his ne~lect of the work. (Page 15.) · (11.) Consequently, that the whole work is yet in douht, arisi11g from the culpable neglect of the superintendent; but that there is no evidence of fault on the part of his assistants. (Page 15.) (12.) The proposition is lheroforc submitted, whether an expenditure of ·one year's time, and a tenth purt of the yearly expense of the coast survey, might not have beeu so applied as to have been of more benefit than all thal we have yet received from this work. (Page 16.) . (13.) Again it appears that the whole work of the coast survey is subject to great risk from fire and robbery. (Page 16.) (14) That the present mode of conducting the work will have a tendency to destroy the co1Jfideuce in its accuracy. (Page 1 7.) (15.) That the chart of Newark bay is a mere pictllre, without latitude, longi~ude, compass bearings, or north point, or any mea11s to enabie us to use it, except the scale (correctly copied from the original)" three inches to the mile," and the scale divided accordingly, rnakiug the length of Newark bay 11.8 miles; , That the copperplate copv, presented by one of Mr. Hassler's assist-ants, with a corrected s,cale,· makes the Je11gth' of the bay 5.82 miles, because the con·ected scale is j of an inch too short. That the length of the buy is really 5.U2 miles. , That it requires nothing lllore accurate than a carpenter's rnle to measure the maps herewith presented, and :in exnminati1>11 of the docnmcnts to prn\'C. that Mr. Hassler has lost his memory, and tliat the rbarge of wilful injustice against one of the committee cannot possibly liavc any foundation ;

That l\Ir. Hassler has supprPsscd the date of this map, un<l gi\l'en those of the other seven that he P.lJUmcraLcll; Aud that lie has for3otten to mention another map of Newark bay regularly ca.lied for hy the Honse, n11d now on file. (Page 17.) (16.) It al~o appears tlrnt Mr. Hassler calculates to chu11ge the system of measuring tl1e three auglcs of every triangle~ an<l to <lcpen<l ou u single . angle on tile pln11cs at the sonth. (Page 20.) . ( 17.) Tbcrefrm\ a few suggestions are made, as to the <li lficnlties, and the question rabcd, wl1c1!1l'r it would not he bettc~r to get fnrthcr information before we adva11rn in a manner that leads to resnlts of <lonbtful utility?
(Page 21.).

(18.) Fron1 the aho\'e, tlie objections to the prc~cut organization lt>ad to the examination of a clinngc to that which lias been udoptcd by other conntrics witll better stircess. (Page 22.) (lfJ.) Tltc pcruliaririeH of Mr. Hassler, takcu from liis own communicaiions to tlte committee nnd other docmucnrs, arc thrown in for the exam~

Rep . .No . . 17.0.

·3

ination of those who consider him identified with the ·survey, as being the only ma.Q capable of conducting it. (Page 24.) (20) Conclusions from the above. (Page 24.)

In order that the I-louse may be ahle. to decide what importance should be attached fo the e\·idence taken before the committee, from a knowledge of the means of. information, relatit1g ·to the subject u~der iiwestigatio~, possessed hy the witnesses, the following extracts are presented, it1 which t'ach individual speaks for himself. In order to prevent any injurious impression that might be produced, from a misunderstanding of the observations contained in this report, it is proper to remark, that no doubt is intended to be cast upon the testiauony of any of Mr. Hassler's assistants; bnt at the same time we may naturally suppose that delicacy of feeling would cause them to put the best construction on every t!1ing respecting their chief officer.
Extracts.from rt pampltlet ;ustributed among lite memlm·s of l/1e House of Representatives.
20. My oge dates from 6th October, l 7i0. It ls with life or age, like with all other things, it lasts the longer and remains the longer elfectif; the better it is used and husbanded. 21. It is n direct injnf;tice to repronch to the ollicors issuing from the military acmlemy of \Vest Point, ami from the uaval schools, their not being competent to take the lead in a work which they are not instructed the very first principles of, nor provided with any nieans for. The thing is impossible for !hem, [ must state my own experience. Immediately after President Jefferson had approved my plan of operation for the coast i;:urvey in 1807, from n.mong the thirteen plans handed in, and exa1nined .· by the committee held in Philadelphia, he also decided the postponement of the execution of the work, on account of the warlike appearance of affairs in England, At the same lime the first professorship of mathematics and natural philosophy oC West Point was vacant ; Mr. Garnet, a private gentleman of ~ew Brunswick, N .. r., well known emiuent mathematician, and Colonel Williams, chief of the engineers cul<~ of the militury o.co.demy, proposed me for that professorship, which I occupied 180i-'8-'9, to such satisfoction·as letters in my possession, and the opinion of stndents of those times may show. I attempted to give to some (then new) lieutenants just dismissed frotn rhe academy, some pracrical iuformnrion, in u direction lending to works of the nature in qnei;tiou, I oven wrote 11po11 it, but they found them· selves entirely nnprepure<l, I conld do only little, and they soon left. During the time I was there, and one of my friends (who afterwards dietl iu Arkafl:sns) thero was some teaching in this line of the science, which was ever since interrnptetl until, ns I have just been told, it waff agni.11 be~m last year-but it rcq u ires longer yen rs of instr:1ction and practice to aclj\\ire proper pl'Oficiency in that brunch of scir.nce. . ·In 1808, I made u plnu for the stndics und orgu11izatio11 of the militu1·y academy, which may still be fom1d in 1he War Dt<par1111P1i1. Wh~t they ·

Rep. No. ·t 70.
arc not taught in the academy, the students ~amwl he c:rpeCl~d to bring out of ii, their future practice alone can pl.lt them in the posi;iLility of acquiring it, according to the special duties, they may be placed into, which is entirely a chance of circumstances. · The naval schools are well known to be only for practical seamanship, without sufficiently entering into higher branches o( mathematics, as are required for works similar to the coast survey. I made also for a naval academy a plan in 1832, which may perhaps be found in thut Depart·· ·ment, it is \'Vet! known that no change has taken place in this rcsp~ct, therefore also the naval officers are entirely innocen/ of t lte accusation

lanced against them.

.

22. When in 1834, a bureau was proposed to direct the c1>ast survey, a

meetirig of one half hour provr.d the ina.dequacy of it completely .. 23. I was in 1..ondon for the instruments from fall 1811, to fall 1815, litlder the disagreeable situation of an alien enemy, by the theu war with
England. .
24. The State over whose tern1ory the coo st survey has the most ex·

tended, is New Jersey, therefore also in that State the most money of the coast survey expenditure has been disbursed. 25. I arrived in the United States in October, 1805, but liad been in public business in Switzerland before, since 1786, though there engaged in the 'archives and a;, a member of courts of justice; ulwuys, however, applying to mathematics aud natural philosopliy as subjects of predilec .. lion. In April, 1807, l entered my fin;t appointment iu this country at We!:tt l'oint, (as stated above.) 26. A suspension of tile work of the survey now, woulcl be attended with very great direct loss, as well in work as in objects on haud for its contin·· nance; and principally because it would most likely not be possible to bring it up again within uwrc tlwn a man's age, as tho interval Jost betWCt'fl 1818 and 1832, may easily lead to conclude unuer existing circumstances. 27. It must be evident to any reflecting mind, that a scientific work changing hands, loses the aJvautages of tlic experience, and practical skill acqnirecl by the operators, and loses the character of a systematic work. 28. Since the resolution of 24th June, 1841, so much of my time has been taken up by polemic discussions, pressed upon me first from Con·· gress, which has, of course, other disagreemunts in its eonsequem~c, that ·actually more tlian one year of my work ·was lost, which I would, with immensely more satisfactiou, have applieil to the forwarding of the interesting aud valuable works which I liavc engaged for with the Government. F. R. HASSLER. \V ASIIINGTO~ CITY, Janua~·y 10, 18·13 .

.fames Perguson examined.
L Question. How long ha vc yon ·been employed in the coast survey ? "Answer. Since 10th May, 1833. 2. QLiestion. In what cap::icity? Answer. As a principal ni.si!itant; one of the three principal assistants. 3. QnestiQn. What particular part of the duty do yon at present p<ir .. for1i1?

Rep. No. 170.
.i.

Answer. Making the secondary triangulation . Question. Who makes the primary ? Answer. Mr. Hassler. (P.. 14.) Examination of Edmuml Blunt.

4. Question. How far inland from the coast has any part of the work been carried? . Answer. I am nnable to say, except in regard to the secondary triangulation, which I ha vo in part conducted. I am one of the principal nssistnn~s.
(P. 22.)

Examination of Captain Swift. I. Qnestion. Arc you employed in the coast survey ; and if so, in what capacity, and since what time? Answer. As an assistant, since 1th April, 1833. I nm also the disbursing agent, since about 2d July, in the same year. (P. !~4.) Examination of Capt a iii Tlwmas R. Gcdnry. 1. Question. Are yon an ol1iccr of the navy? Answer. Yes. 2. Question. Are you now employed in tile coast survey; and if" so, since what time, aucl in what capacity? Answer. I have hr.en employed in it since October, 1834, in chargi:i of onr. of the hydrographical parties. (P. 37.) Rxamfoalion of Liwlenrml George Blake. I. Questiou. Are you nn oiliccr of the navy, employed in the·coast sur-· vey; and if so, in what capacity, and since wltnt time, o.nd on what part of the coast ? . Answer. I am n. lieutenant in the navy, and ha\'e huu charge of a hydrographical party from 1835 to tho. present tirne; I have been in Long Islaud souu<l nn<l Fishor's Islan<l sound, allll in Delaware river and bay. :l. Questiou. \Vhat vessel or veRsels, aml what number of oflicers nnd men, hnve yon nnder your command? Answer. My force has vnrietl very much; l ha<l lust yenr the schooners Gallatin anJ Naulilus, with nine officers aml forty-one men. 3. Question. JI ave you been engaged in the 011tcr or the inner wnte1·s? Answer. The inner, altogether.' (P. 40.)
1

TYilliam J. Stone in e:rami11atio11. 1. Question. \Vhat is your business nnd residcnct'? Answer. I reside in '\Vn.sliiugtou, and am un engraver. 2. Question. How Jo11g havr. you followed that business here? ·Answer. From twenty-three to twenty-four yeurs. :3. Qt1estion. Have yon been accnstornud to engrave maps and charts? Answer. Yes; that hns been my chief, uncl is at present my only business; I hllve ab:wuoncd other branches gf eugrnving, to Jevoto mysel(. to thar, (P. 12.)
It is acknowledged on all hands that the charts ol onr coast are Very.defective. ( l) W c hn ve hitherto had nothing ro dcpeml on but that ob thin-

6

Rep.

No.

-

,.

170.

ed by the British Government at the time that we were colonies, and, suhse'luently, with a fc w isolated exceptions, the correctious up plied by tlw energy and perseverance of individuals. , . For all practical purposes, the action of our Government has been almost a nullity, (2) anu, while other nations (19) have not only a thorough knowledge of their own coast, bnt have even sent out their vessels and taken surveys of the coasts of distant and almost uninhabited countries, the United States, possessing a marine both naval and mercantile at least equal in energy to a11y in the world, and ranking in commercial importance secon<l only to that of Great Uritain, does not even !mow the position of' her own thickly-settled coast in the immediate vieiuity of her most important harbor$, (40) cannot even now tell the exact position of any part from tlw point to which all onr navigators refer their calculations, (41) and has har-.' bore nntl channels that were proved during the lust war to be known to our enemies, and unsuspected by ourselves. 'l'be consequence of all this is, iu the first place, a discreditable position in the eyes of the civilized world. This amounts to somcthiJJg, although of minor importance, But a gralld difficulty is the want of a knowledge of our own coast for naval purposes during war, so that our own vessels cannot take advantage of the facilitie:; afforded by nature, or avoid the hidden dang~r. And, again, that we are, in fact, most exposed where we feel most secure, and, consequently, take no precautions to prevent a surprise. Witness the exposed conditio11 of the city of New York and of the navy yard at Brooklyn. Again : The innumerable vessels covering the ocean, and approachillg our coast, have no means of judging of their relative position, except from their 'charts. Om ua vi gators ascertain their longitudinal position 011 the globe only with reference to the observatory at Greenwich, near. London, the point from which the almanac used by them is calculated. If, then, a navigator wishes. to know what course he must steer to avoid danger or reach his port, he first ascertains by astronomical observation his latitude, and his position with reforence to the placo for which hi11 almanac is calculated; then, turning to his chart, marks upo11 the same hi8 position in latitude and 1011gitnde. If his chart is correct, he then knows whether he is in danger, or the- direction to his hnrbor; but, if his chart shows an open sero where there should be land, it is a treacherous guide, and worse than useless. He believes that he knows the distance to land. He moves on in confidence dnring tho night, in high anticipation of meeting his friends at home within a day, but, before midnight, where his cbart shows him yet remaining many miles of clear sea room, he is suddenly startled with the cry of" breakers ahead," au<l, before his vessel cau be put about, she ~trikes, becomes a wreck, and all on board subject to the risk or destruction. This is not a sketch from faucy. It is believed to be a correct description of au actual occnrrcnce; but, for prescut purposes, it may be taken as a supposed case, for it is evident that such must be the result arising from tho use of inaccurate charts. It is not necessary to go furtlicr into this part of the investigation, for it must be evident, to all who will reflect on the subject, that humanity a'.lo1rn would rank a survey of our coast amoug the most in1porta11t duties of the Government. . What, then, does thC' interest of navigation demand? Is it necessary

Rq1. No. 170:

7

to wait unt!I we ascertain the precise fignre of the earth, and the exact length of a degree, to know whether a given arc of the meridian is a fe\v inches, or even a fo w feet, longer or shorter, (41) when the navigator cares nothing about the figure of the earth, pwvided you will tell him what angle a certain star will niakc with the horizon in each position o_n the earth, and also what proportion of the circumferaqcc of the earth there is between that position urn] his fixed meridian from which he makes his calculations, and when he has no means of measuring dlstunces that can even be compared with the approximation obtaiued by the pedestrian pacing off distances on land? But the nnvigutor does not depend upon this distn11ce. The astonishing discoveries in astronomy have furnished him with certain guides in the, heavens, to point out his exact position on the earl It; and, according t!) the magnificent conception of a former President, (which hns been oft and again- riU.icnled by tl10se who had not sufficient knowledge of the subject to kuow tbat the expression \VUs pltilosop!iicall,1/ correct,) h:;i.s converted the stars into " light-houses in the skies," Liy whose unerring light the mariner <lirects his course across the trackless occall. Must he be doomed to trcwel ovpr hidden sand bars, among rocks · and islands, and eveu along the very coast of the main land itself, with u storm in his teeth, anrl a lying chart before him, in the darkness of .a stormy night, with the horrilile 11.nticipatiou of beiug wrecked, not because he does 11ot know his positioli, although co11stantly in motion, but because he has uo chart upon which he cau depend for the position of. the land, that is fixed a11d i111movablc-has al ways been there, and always ·will be there? Must we sec wrecks upou wwcks, aud thousands of lives sacrificed, for the waut of iaformation that has been obtained, aud quietly ·doze over the drowuing shrieks of the mariner and the traveller, while we enjoy the gol<leu dream that, i11 a" few years," the" result" will be rea.ched that ·will bo " crc<lituLlc to a man of scieucc," (·ll) and then the wlwle will be published? · · The idea is preposterous.- \.Ve have now had a Government survey, in .charge of the same individual, from August, 1816, to April, 1818, a11d from Augnst, IS32, to .Ja1mary, 18<13-a period of not less than thir\een yeors, a11d at an expense or $i20,000 to the Government, besides the pay of the army arid navy officers, between $200 1000 to $300,000, mukin~ a. total of abont ,$1 1000,000. And what has been the result, in practical utility to tbe uavigutor? We have, in all, eight maps (2) of srnall districts, a11<l of these the only .one that belongs to the ou tcr coast is tlic bar of New \' ork harbor, a distance along the coast of a very few miles. In view of this co1Hlitio11 of things, let us examine the original intention ·Of the snrvey.
1.

The net of Congress in 1807 shows that the object of the survey then .authorized was for ''such examinations ~ud observations," &c., as "may be especially subservient to the commercial interest of the .United States." (3) ' Mr. Hassler was engaged to take charge of the work, to "make frequent t"eports," "to deposite here" (i. c. with the Treasurer)" all surveys," &c. 1 to

8

Rep. No. 170.

''make himself the principal part of the general large triangulatio11," and to deliver charts when "required by the proper authorities, o,. prepared for p11blt'cation.'' (4) Of the views that governed the work in 1816, 1817; and 1832, we have no official it~formation; but as soon as we get an official report we find that the original object was much extended by the superintendent, and that the ''coast survey" must include the military infortilntion (5) which other nations reserve for the possession of tho Government alone. (6) In his next report lie appears to have altered his views to the other extreme, and considers the survey as having no reference to national ve~scls, but only the commercial. (7) · But, in his report for 1841, his views are agaiu expanded to the fullest extent. (8) When examined before the committee, Mr. Hassler evaded the question~ and would not state the general objects that governed his work, (0) but we can infer from his reports of 1834 (5) and 1841 (S) that his views embrace much more than was intended or is now desired. The committee endeavored to get precise answers as to the distance ii1cluded in the topography, but very little information was obtained in this way. (10) \Ve conclude, from this circumstance, that the detail surveying is carried many miles inland. We folve the assertion of Mr. Hassler, that it is necessary to carry on the topography to -the high ground in the rea.r of the coast, to include the stati.011 points, ( 11) that the survey of the coast cannot be accurately made without surveying the bays and rivers, (12) that there is no more topography 011 tlie maps than is absolntely required, (13) and that the hydrographical parties have not been detained for want of the topography of the coast proper. (I 4) Now, we find, from the examinatio11'of those who know more about the actual progress of the. work, that the sounding has been in advance of the plane table; '(15) that the detail considered necessary (11 and 12) by Mr. Hassler would add greatly to the expense, and delay the execution of the work; ( 16) that there is 110 use, for the purposes of 11avigation, iu having the topography far from the coast, nor is it customary. (17) Bpt it must be evident, to any man of common sense, that the minute topography of the lancl, that can only be seen at a diRtancc by birds high in the air, or by the land tra veHer on the spot, is a matter that the mariner does not·reqnire and cannot use. That a chart should contaiu much of the to pography of tl,e country, for the uso of the landsman, is certainly no objection,. nnless obtained at an unreasonable expense of time or money ; but that it should be necessary to follow up the triangulatiou, (LS) and fill up the space with minute topography, for the benefit of the "commercial interest," is a statemeut that will puzzle the sailor. · Amid the different opinions that have been expressed rci>pecting the mode in which the survey bas been conducted and the resultl> obtai~1ed, it is griltifyin~ to observe a desire, almost unanimous, to have the survey completed. This point being settled, we proceed to examine the testimony as to the 2.
"l'RJGONOJ\IETRICAL SURVEY.

By referring to the notes appended, (19) it will be seen that nearly the whole of Europe has been triangulated, that it is the only correct method

Rc11. No. 17Q.

9

of taking surveys of extended surfaces, n.nd that it can be done with surprising accuracy. , This is doubtless a fair statcm<>nt of the en.SP.; and hence it appears very remarknblethutMr. Hassler, ill l'i91, (19 and page 3) ut twent}·-one )·eal's of age, long boforu many of these works were commenced, was able to do the work that he thinks not one of his assistants is now able to do, (32) altho11gh they have had" his iustrnction" for mnuy years, and the command of works,. in Frnnch and English,gi ving detailed nccot,mtsofal l the European field work and calculations. So he thinks, but they do not agree with him. The pretension that he is t.he only man in the country capable of conducting the work is ridiculous; but we shall hereafter enter more fully into this part of tho investigation. The only point of present importance is, that triangnlntion is the most correct mode of surveyiug.
3.

In carrying on n trigonometrical surve)', the t'ou11tlation of the whole work is the ~tE;\SUREll JIA~E ( 20.)

The length between its extreme poiuts ls determined with the grentcst rare, and the bounds, or termini, marked in the most permanent manner. If then, when the triangulation is curried 011 to vcr1ficntion, n discrepan<'.Y is found, they are rmablcd t.o rcmeast'lrc the original base, and compare tho latter with the original r!etcrmination. Or, iu case of doubt at any fn. tnre time, the exuct length of the standard base can he determined, aud consequently the whole :;mvcy cbrrectctl, if necessary (!?O);-or n comparison of the measures nsccl in the detcrminntiou can be obtained, supposing even n doubt· llS to the length of tlie standard yar~ or foot iu use nt the time. Such is the nsunl mode of proceeding, nud from lhc care iu establishing the base 011 Hounslow Heath a remeasurement showed a difforenc1)' of 8 inches. (20) · It must also be observed tht1t 1l1is errol' increases in proportlon to the distanrc ; and, consequently, the further the: 'trian~ulation is carried the greater will be the e.rror, for the meosnrcmcnt of the angles alone gives us nothing but proportions. · The undersigned hus tlie following verbal i11formatio11 from Licnt. Blnl\c~ of the coat1t survey, respecting the ''measured base," the "actual base," and the "mountain base:" "The 'measnred base' has 110 motrnmeut to murk its eastern termination, which was on the bench, between high otH.1 low watc1· mark nt tho time of measmemcnt. The '.uctnul. base' was not mcmwred, but the length calculated from the monnment at the western tel'lninns of the measured base to the east monument on the snud knoll. Tho position of the east monume11t was obtai11ed, uot by mensuremeut, but by culculation, from threo triangles }1uvi11g- one sido common-two of lhem being founded on distauces taken backwards along the men.sured base, from its cast icrminus, nnd the third npon a short base, 111cnsnrc'1 at un ungle from the east terminus of the measured base. "The position of the cast eud of the meusmcd base- not having been marked, it can be obtained by me11.suring 180 degrees from the station -at Uuland's, since the east moumnent is in the line between Rulttutl's nmi the cast end of the mcasnred base.

10

ltep. No.

170~

" The mountain base represented on the sketch from the offi<·e is about 12 miles distant from tho nearest point of tile actnal'base, or from Ruland's to the east molrnment. From the west end of the actual base to the west end of the mountain base, at West Hills, is about 17 miles, and the length of the mountain.base between West Hills an<l Rulaud's is abont 20 miles." These are about the distauces, according to recollection, of the conversation, aud they correspond with the distances shown by the sketch from the office. 'rhe letter of Lieut.· Illake (20 bis) informs us that the <listauce between the east termiuns of the measured base alHl the monument at the enst terminus of the actual base is 162 metres, and tliat the sea has encroached llpon the measured base line, but the actual base is believed fo be out of danger. ' Being desirous of having certain information respecting these points, from Mr. Hassler himself, and in such form that there could be no mistake. the letter at note (20 bis) was sent to him on the 6th instant, but, as yet, 110 answer has bceu rccei vcd." We must therefore depend upon the information <lerivecl from Lienteuant Blake, since this is donbtless f!OOd authority, although he stated that he was uot present when tho base was measured The three sketches herewith presented, of which two are copied from -<lrnnghts received from the office of the coast survey, and one from tlie Treasury Department, show the changes that have taken place at the wes1 -encl of Fire islaud, which is a sand bar thrown up by the ocean, varying i11 breadth from 800 to 230, yards along the part ou which the base is situated. 'fhe following extracts will show the variable natnre of our coast, (21) eveu where we have reason to suppose it morc por111a11ent than a mere sa.ml bar thrown up by tlic sea1 and having sand hills blown upon it similar to the" dunes of Holland," subject even to be lilown away by the wind. (21) The ocean i;i<le of Cope May is knowu to be washing away rapidly, and the sea is eucroaching on the ground iu frout of the bath-houses.t We might also refer to ~he breach forming the Shrewsbury inlet; but, since it is not known that we can find authority, either written or 011 this floor, to add his lrnowle<lge to tlie statemc11t of the fact, we pass this merely as

a hint.
Now, supposi11g tlie remarks of Lieutenant Blake were correctly uuderstood--(and if there is au error it can be corrected by information from the office of the coast survey, within a quarter of a mile of this House)-tbc ~'base," upon which the whole triaugula.tion of the United Slates thu~ far depends, has nothing to murk its eastern termination, so that thi! liue 110 longer exi~ts, but in its place we have the "nct1,rnl base," with one end 011 the beach at the level of the ocean, or very· near it, aud the other elevated on a" sand· knol.I," whose height we do not know. Tbe "actual base," whose termini have been marked by mouumeuts, has never been measured ; and from that fact aud the inspection of the map, showing differeut intervening irregularities, we infer that it never can be measured. Should it be desired at any future time to verify the measurement, (20) we must use the "actual haso." which is the l!alc11latcd third side of a. triangle, of which ouly one side was measured, aud trian.,;nlate back again, to lind the east end of the "measured base," usiug for that purpose the station at Ruland's, 12 miles distant, and, as far as we know, without any
· Received on 10th instant, aml in1crteJ. (Nole 20 blti.)

t See

nole (94.)

Rep.

No.

170~

11

permanent monument to fix tl1c spot. Thus the monument was fixed by triangulntion that might have been inaccurnte, (for we cannot uow prove i;11hctt1cr it was accurate or not,) and we must work back by another triangulation, that again admits of error, (c,·en supposing tho point at Ruland's to be fixed ;) and thus, after passing through two triangulations, of which the latter will bo the 1nost clifficnlt, we may quess that we have the position of the eastern terminus of tho measured base. But, after we hn ve obtaiued this point, we can make no use of it, for the sea has encroached on the measured base. Therefore, .it is already impossible to ·i·erijy the foundation of the whole work. for the base is p1:actically gone; and in view of i\11 the changes that constantly occur on our coast, we may well question whether, in the situation of this uarrow strip of sand, exposed LO the foll swell ·of the occau, the sea that has raised it, and made tho changes that we see exhibited by the maps, may uot, in n few years, sweep the whole of it away to some other pince, and leave no vestige of the base. Tliis base cannot he rcmcasmed, even iu the present situation of tlw bench, bnt we are i11formed that " the clements of will be preserved by the mountain base iulaud from the original base." (21) This mountain base is 12 miles from the ncm·esl point of the measured I.Jase; it is 20 miles long, and its termini on two mountains! · ' We have never yct-recci ved any account giving the exact length of either of the three bases. The east monument on the "sa1;d knoll" is no!, at the und of the line, "'laid out accurately straight." (20)

4.

Tho base being permanently established, the primuqr triangnlation (24 and 41) commences from the extremes of the base. Angles are measured between each terminus and some distant conspicuous poiut. The distances to these points arc then calcnlutod. These points iu turn serve for 11ew triangles in the same manner us the original points nt the extremities of the hase-tlic only difference being that the distance between the· extremes of the base was mcasnro<l, while the disltt11Cfls botweeu all the 0thcr points are ca\cnlatod from the uugles. (1 !J) · The latitude nnd longitude of every point in the whole s'mvey ure given· hy the <listance of that point from certain otlwr poi11ts whose latitude aud longitude have fleeu ascertained. (2:3) The primary triangles arc chosen with cspoci4l reference to accuracy in the general re::ult, withoqt regarding the minute topography. Dnt, before we can ascertain the certainty of .the result, it is necessary to know the figure (41) and density (:W) of the eurth in that part ov-cr which the surv~y is carried. This can only he ascertained by astronomical observation at difl'e1·e11t poiuts, am! by the measurement of different bases. (39 bis.) Therefore, since the whole of n sun1 ey by triangles is n connected work, ( 37) if the foundation is not correct, the whole is false. The soundings depen<l upou the topography, (36) the topography on the secondary triaugulation, (84 and 35) and the secondary on the primary triangnlation. ('28, 32, and 33) Thus it is evident that every thing is uncertain u11til the primary tdangulation is certain, and this cannot be certain until it has been carried on to verification. (2i)

:ll'2

Rep. No. 110.

Therefore, until the primary triangulation has be1m verified, we shaL have no certain results from the secondary triangulation, even where tho secondary is kept within its proper limits, in the immediate vicinity of tho primary triangulation. Much less can we depend on tbe secondary triangulation wheu carried beyond the primary, ( 38) being in its nature less accurate, and adding error to error, for want of new station points, furnished with greater certainty by the more perfect instrument used, and more favorable size and shape of the main triangles. (24 and 39) Hence the primary triangulation should be carried on to verification (.27 and 39 bis) with all possible industry, in order that, if any error should be discovered, it might be corrected immediately, so that each point in thf' main tria,ngles being certainly established, in distance, in latitude; and in longitude, the whole of the remainder of the work would depend on a foundation proved to be correct. (39 bis.) Consequently, the secondary triangles, the topography ,aud the soundings. depending on points whose positions woul<l be certainly known, the whole 'work, in all its details, would be reduced to a certainty, and perfect maps could be made of cacl;i part, in succession, as fost as the notes were taken, (40) showing not only a detached picture of the p1·op01·tions, but giving the latitude, longitude, and compass bearings of each part, and admitting exact measurement in miles or feet; or, in other words, the navigator would have perfect charts, as fast as they could be made, and not be compelled to wait, as is now the case, (41) for an indefinite period, until the t'rimary triangulation converted the uncertain modulus, used in the detail works, to a certain measure. (33.) Now, we find, from the testimony of one of Mr. Hassler's assista11ts, ( 41) that we do not know the exact difforencc of longitude between any poi11t in the survey and the meridian of Greenwich, near London, from which all our navigators calculate their longitude, since they use the Nautical Almanac calculated at that observatory. But, from Mr. Hassler's testimony it appears that he has one pNfoct astronomical station on Weasel mountain, in the int~rior of the country. (23) That the calculations of the triangles will .~ive in ultimate results the longitude and latitude of every point in the survey, cannot be denied. But brfore we arrive at this ''ultimate result," we must have more astronomical observations,_ and his main triangulatio11 carried over his secondary triaugulation, and verified.
5.

To say that his main triangulation should be canic<l over hi:? secondary may sound strange, but such is the present condition of his work. (38) 111 the early stages of the' work, Mr. Hassler confined his secondary to the immediate vicinity of his main triangulation; {29, 30, 31) but, in 1839~ (32, 50) he refers to a change in the mode Gf operation from the ordinary and regular arrangement to one that resembles the operation of 11 survey0r who measures his angles and paces the distances, trusting to his chainmen to give him the actual measure a "few years hence,'' to enable him lo correct his approximations. The main triangulation extends from Mount Carm,el, in Connecticut, to Yards near Philadelphia, a distance of about 150 miles iri a direct line, while his secondary, after filling up this.space, has extended to Point Judith, (41, 51) about 7 5 miles east of his main tricm-

Rep. No. 170.

13

gnlation, -and to Annapolis about 100 miles south of his main. triangttla· tioll, besides ·a fi·inge of small triangles, running. along the Jersey coast, from Sandy Hook to Cape May, about 1\5 miles. (38, 41) The whole wit/tout verification, (25, 27) for the coincidence mentioned (in note 38) is no verification, without a measw·ement of Ille actual distance, to ascertain whether both triaugulntions are not iu error. Thus we have the whole of this work extending heyoml the maira trian·· gulation suspended in doubt, for the want of the main triangulation cstab· lisbing the points with greater accuracy; and the mniu triangulation itself, even us far ai; carried, yet requiring a few years before. it cull he verified.
(41, 42)

a.
But it seems tliat Mr. llnssler had no time even to take the com· pass bearings, frol'n station to station, although remainiug on the spot for
!JJOllths. ( 4 3)

Thus it appnrs that we must yet wait a "fow years" before we can have perfect maps, such as we have tl right to demand in return for the million of dollars that have been expen<led, while, in the mean time, all t~t we can get will be approximate picture representations of rho proportions, without latitude, longitude, or compass bearings. (Page 20.) Although the survey has not all !he certainty that it should htwe, still the figme of the earth is so nearly ascertained, by the triangulations in other countries, tb!lt we shall probably find but trilli11g errors to correct when tho rnaiu triangulation has been verified. The present information arising from the survey, both iu the general position of the coast over which tho work has been carried, und in the detail operations of soundings, &c., must therefore b~ vastly :mpcrior to any thing which we have at present. We should therefore have an immediate publication of the outliucs of the draughts that have been roduccd, showing the approximation thus for obtained, executed in the simplest manner, and with regard solely to accnrncy, without respect to appearances. (44) To withhold this iufonnalion until the work is complete in all its parts, and the engravings exee11tcd in a style superior to any thiug known in this country (44)-and that proceeds so slowly that Mr. Hassler's engraver eonld not feel certain that the maps o( New Yorlc hnrbo1· aloue would be fiulshecl in two years, although they have now been rently for cugra\>ingand to wait Until tho work shall do Cl'edit to tho superi11teudent "O.S a <lf science," while \necks upon wrecks nre occmriug anunnlly on our coast, for want of the information that mnst of necessity have beeu obtained by the survey of the coast, appears to be o. wanton trifling with tho distresses of our follow·beiugs, uud not more reasonable than to refuse the miserable shipwrecked mariner a morsel of food, to save him from immediate starvo. .. tio11, while, with all due deliberation, wo prepare a magnifice11t eute~tain ment, of which he mny partake, if ho happen to live long enough ·

man

.

7.
That we may form some opm1011 as to the relative position of thia work and similar u11dcrtnki11gs in Europe, we will refer to the countrit!· with which Mr. Hassler invites a comparison (·ti, 51 1 58) that we may be

14

Uep.

~o.

170.

able to judge whether there is any reason to blame him for the present un.... certain condition of the whole work, arising from the want of certainty in the main triangulation, whi~h Mr. Hassler claims as exrlusively belonging · to himself. (24) In 1792, 1793, and 1794, Delambrc and .Mechain measured 9 degrees of latitude, requiring llp triangles. (45) .'\!low each tr}~ugle to require bnt one station point, and we have an average of 19 per anuum for each ob· server. General Mudge, in his trigonometrical survey of England, &c., took 22& primary stations in 19 years: or about 12 per a1rnum. (.JG) In conducting the French triangnlation of the kingdom, the Commissiou of the Depot of War give, among their geueml orders, the following: "Each triangle of the first order being valued (on an average) at five myriametrcs of surface, the Committee of the Depot of \Var fias fixed the number o( stations which should be finisbetl in one campaign at fifteen for the first order, aud twenty·five for the 8ccou<l, not i11c!nJing those of the first order where they may be forced to return. "The number of points of the second order, to determiue in a triangle of the first order, is fixed at fivr.. All these points should be s1atio11 points." (Memorial du Depot de la Gtte.n·e, vol. 6, page 3 l.) Now, what are the facts respecting the work of our survey? · By examinit1g the appended extracts from l\Ir. lfassler's reports, a1;J tlie evidence derived from his assistants before the committee, it will be seen tlw t ho has taken the angles frorn -rw£N'r\" stations (4S) iii ten years," of which the two first, 1816 and 18li, were rendf,rcd useless hy the overthrow o{ the work in 1818." (49) Why useless? The hills were srill in tlic sa!lle plact;s ! How can his work be useful to ot!Lers, in eanying on any flltnrc operation, if lie ltimse(f ca11not use it ? But grant him all the time he asks 10 be <led ucted from the time of his employment, and theu corn pare his work wirh thut done iu 01herco11ntries, wlrnre the surveys were reg11lated hy thoso who were either willing to work themselves, or who knew what i;honld be <lone by others~

8.
In tlie early stages of the work, (2~, 30, 31) rvir. Ila!-slcr consider· ed it necessary to carry the primary trio.11gulation in a<l vunce; hnt subsequently, (32, 50) he considers it nrnch better to remaiu in his. nfficc in Washington than to rnn about the country. No doubt, it was much Jess . fatiguing, and, besides, he cleared a large proportion of the· $3 1000 givcu to him for the difference bet ween living at home anJ in the field. {50, 72.)
9.

It must be observed that, when Mr. Hassler says {51). that "the works of the survey of the coast cover now upwards of 11,000 s'quare miles with primary aqd seco11dary triangulation, topogm pliy, unJ so11nding:;," he does not mean to inclnclc the primary triungulatio11 for the whole, sinr we find, (52) from Mr. Ferguson's evidence, \\mt the primary covers 011\y 3,571 .square miles. ) ·The.remark of Mr.' Ferguson, as to tlie importance of tlie primary tri:rn:~les, p~ts a wrong construction on this matter. (53) No objection is made

Rep. No. 170.

15

to Mr. Ferguson on this score, for it is not only natmo.J, b~1t even commendable, that he should put the most favorable views forward respecting his principal. The real question is the amonnt of time aud labor required to do the work, and not its importance. \Ve may here, in passing, advert to the remark, made elsewhere, as to the great importance attached to this work, and the anxiety of the scientific world on accouni of it. (54) This importance does no more attach to the superintendent of the work than the worth of a diamond to the lapidary. The astronomer who should make an exact survev of a coast in a remot!l and unfrequented part of the world would deserve as mnch credit as one who did the same amount of work, and in the same style, in the most commercial district.
10.

It appears, again, that very small causes nre sufficient to pre,·ent Mi·~ Ha'.lsler (55)from taking the field. The report referred to by Mr. Hassler is Document 28, made Dec. 2, 1841. It contains: 1. A general view of the progress of the work. 2. A reference to documents that answer the question. 3. The number of stations occnpiec.1 for the triangulation. 4. A statemcut that it is not necessary to answer rhe questions put fe> liim, as they ure contuiucd in 180 volumes in his oflice. 5. A general view of tlrn "!ls'tronomical observations." 6. An inventory of the books and charts, containing the work of himself and assistants. 7. The na111es of the three charts published, and gencrnl remarks as te> the rest. 8. A statcmc11t of the expense for instruments, and the gr.ass expense for each year. 9. General views of instrmncnts and books purclmseu. 1 O. Hefers to Tronsury Department for answer. 11. Gelll;!ral account of appointments. 12. Ge11eral views as to expenses. 13 and 14. "General remarks, that he cannot estimate the time nor ex· pcnse ol finishing the work. 15 and 16. A statement of triangulations in other couhtries, and general views of the plan of surveying. . 17. A list of instruments belonging to the United States coast survey.· This report of eighteen pages, containing no details except the inventories, and no calculations-that contained nothing pertinent to the questio11s which auy one else acquainted with the coast smvey could not. have writte11 as fast as he wot1ld write a business letter-that wns not answered fo1 more than five months, and that from the field-couseu l\lr. Bussler to lose "most of last your's work," by occupying him "three or four Wfleks.',..
11.
~J!.

Therefore, viewing tho present nncertuin condition of tho whole snrvev, and trncing the whole cansc to the superintendent, we hold it proved that we must nttl'ibnte the present condition to the culpable neglect of the superintendent. (58)

16

Rep. No. 170.

The assistantR of Mr. Hassler are in no wise to blame, as far as. wn havt' any evidence. That their work is uucertain arises from the circm;n·· stance that Mr. Hassler claims the main. triangulation as exclusively his work, and has neglected to drive it ahead.
12.

In view of all the resuhs that have been obtained from the heavy machiner·y of the coast survey, the question is seriously submitted to practical men, whether a small appropriation to fit out the vessels now employed in the coast
survey, (58 bis) furnished with charts, chronometers, and other instrument.~, from the depot, an<l directed to determine the latitude and longitude of the light-houses, (now amounting to about 2.50 in number,) with the principal headlands, islands, bar~, and 01 her important points, together, with a few observations on the most important soundings, (while in certain detached portions of the coast, where tbe intermediate distance is ln.iJ down on the charts with dangerous inaccuracy, a smveyor with compass and chaiu might take a rapid survoy of the lino of coast between the points of observation,) would not in one year have done more real service to ihe commercial interest of the country lhan a\\ the information yet given to the public, derived from all the work of the coast su'rvey. (2) Grant that in this way we could nor obtain minute accuracy, still it would reduce the present nucertainty to within very narrow limits, and the navigator would direct his course with comparative sccnrity. Let it not be supposed that these remarks are iuten<led to show that this mode of improvi'ng onr charts should be substituted for a correct survey. This is by no n:ieans what is intended. (Page !J.) \Vo want a survey as accurate us it can be mnde, and there cuu be no questiou but that the most correct mode is by triangulation, where this is practicn.ble. Onr Eastern and part of the Middle Stales nndoubtcdly admit of this mode of sur~ veying, but it must be left to scientific mc11 to devise the ways ll.nd means of getti1:g the best survey of our Southern flat coast. But we want an immediate survey, for immediate use, to. correct the gross errors in our charts; and the method above snggcstod would effect this object al trifling expense, and produce an approximation that might again be corrected wheu wo get more certain data, by a more tedious, ·but, at the same time, tnorn accurate process. Since the above views were committed to paper, the recommendation of a former Secretary of the Treasury ( 58 bis) has been met with. It will be seen thilt the views contained in each are identical as to the general plan, and the only difference is in the above going somewhat into the details. We have therefore the support of one whose position at the time gave him the best opportunity of jndgiJJg.
1 !1.

<1f the coast survey, arc concentrated in an ordinary building, exposed to the

The whole of the observations, charts, &c., connected with the works-·

risk of fire. (59) For the same reason, they are exposed to robbery; and a more valuable offering conkl hardly be made to a foreign nation, meditating a.n attack upon that part of the coast. Consequently, th!} fire of a single uight might destroy the whole ; or, &till wtnse, the whole might be off in one night, moving, with all the force of stcan..i, to some foreign Power.

17
14.

R"'"

The fullest assurance of ·the accuracy of the maps should be pn;>di1c~d,· and means giveu whereby to judge of, and correct errors, if any should'be found to exist. ' This confidence, or certaimty of the accuracy of the charts, 'cannot.. be produced without publishi11g the data, or i11 some.other way placing them' out of the. hands of those whose characters, as scie11tific or practical meu, arn concerned in .their accm·acy. · If these data or observalions be wi1hheld until the work be verified, the operator w'ill be enabled tu ''force results." (60) " l\lr. Hassler says that the operator \Vottld not be nble to force msnlts. (61) Trno, he cannot if ho keep to his data; bnt every common colintry surveyor kuows how to ''force results," and make his suryey look well on paper, so that it shall· nccnrutely meet and describe rt piece 'of ground, although he may not be able to make u correct survey. and de1$cribe tl1e piece it is intended to represent. Tho fact is, as :-;tate<l by ·l\fr. Hassler iu his reports of 1842-'43,, we have nothing to depend on but the "moral strnngth of confidence," if all 1hc observtttions ure. kepr secret until he measures his "verification foase on tho Chesapeake," which he oxpects to " rcnch" "in n few ye'ars." · The discrepancy in the results obrainod in France by MeGhain having cansed him· to conceal his manuscripts, ~nd even hastenod his death hy <lisrress, it is evident that there would bH a strong te111ptutio11 to conceal 1111 error. (62) . To preclude ull <loubt on the score of nu1hcnticity in the observations, tlrn French require copies of nil tht:i notes to be sent r1!gt1larly from the ground to the department at Paris, n11d in some cases lhe original manuscript, signed on c11ch leaf by the observc1· aud his assistant. (63) . Mr. Hussler objects to allowing any of the documents (64) to go out of his sight until rlic work shull have been V!irififid, althongh in 1he original agreement (4) it appears ns if 1ho Sc~retary iuteuded.Jo pnrsne the plan as il1~scribed . iu France, (63) untl althongh 111ost of tho ·11otes nre in dupli- · cnto. (59) We shall therefore have 110 certainty until the work is completed, and even thcu have uothiqg lrnt the " moral strougth of coufideuce" to depend 011 for its accuracy. ( 65) 'l'h~ numerous inslances uf deception daily occurring should wurn every inclivi<lual holding n respo11::sible post 10 make s11ch arra11~11monts as to pre-: c)ude the possibility of his being even suspected of dccep1io11, and therefore that every possible checlC:shonld he adopted lo prBser~e 11n<loubt.id confi· donce in the authenticity of the coast survey. This cauuot bo effected without a public~tio11 of the obse~vatious as thP,y progress, or !'lso placing· the .noteis or copies. duly au1he1111ca1ed, heyo11d rtw re:1ch of those who _;'.fo~f,Fihave an interest in concealing an error. (6:3)

15.
' 'rh~\ I 'Mr. 'Hassler is not ~~M~'.is proved h}' oue nf his ox~racts from the co~st ~t~rvcY,; cont~\1'.i~~~f~·dcfoctivci reprose11t111io11 of Newark 1

Lay.

.

.

.

·

, "c

.... , ·

,

· Although tl'liS milp is fnl''-ftorri befhg "complotc, n11d of 111111 in itsnlf," as stated by Mr. Hassler, (2 and 66) still it might have received but a passing 2

18

Rep. No. 170.

notice, except that it has assumed a collateral importance, by showing the character of the superintendent, and giving rise to some pointed remarks on the floor of this House. We shall therefore examine the subject at length. The three maps of Newark bay, herewith presented, were in evidence before the committee. They are 1uarlrnd, respccti vely, "A,"" B," and" C." The first, marked A, is the original' manuscript, having the scale marked "3 inches to tho mile." (70) The second, marked ll, is the copperplate copy· of the same, with the original scule cut out and another substituted with the pen, (67, 70) marked n·~· presented to the committee by Mr. Ferguson. The third, marked C, is an impression from the same plate as H, (70, 67) but i).aving tile scale unaltered, and, like the original manuscript," 3 inches to the mile." (70) It i~ ono of the Honse documents, of which copies are bound up with the other documems of 1838-'39. · Mr. Ferguso11 Is iu error respecting this map having be~n "printed at the request of the colleclor of Newark," (68) as the documents of the HousP. prove, siuce this map was furnished to the House of Representatives on motion (}f Mr. Aycrigg, (69) and Mr. Hassler states .that there were but three maps published, ( 66) viz: New Haven, Newark, and Bridg!!port; cpnsequeutly, we must conclude that. he depe11de<l on erroneous information, even without the additional evideuce (68) from the collector, that Mr. Hassler refused Lo let him have this. map. that he requested. From the manner iu which Mr. Ferguson's testimony is written clown, the appearauce to the tye, on seeing th"' fractional representations of the scale, might lead to the erroneous impressiou that these figures are found on the map. (67) We therefore give 1be exact description of the three scales. On the original manuscript (·'A") (70) we find in the middle of the map, immediately below its title, the following : "Scale of throe inches to the mile;" and i111mediately below it a line marked off into thirds and quar. ters, tlie quarten1 having the figures!,~' il. The thirds aro not numbered. , This scale, represeutiug one mile, is ercactly three incites long. The distance from ~huter's island to 1he head of Newark bay measures, o:n this map, 2 feet I it inches, or in inches and decimals 35.375. Couse-. quenlly, siuce there is uutlti111{ on the map but the above scale by means of· which we can ascertain the distance, we find tlie length of the bay 11.80 or nearly 12 miles loug. Ou the unaltered copperplate copy (" C") we find the scale marked as iu ~be original mauuscript (o7, 70) ·· 'I'HRI~J<: INCHES To THE MILE" in small cap~Lals. , . The t>cale itself is about one per cent. shorter than the original, being 2.065 inches long, and divided and marked as in the original. '1,'he map is likewise about three-tenths of an inch shorter than the original, (iO bis) givi11g the leugth of tlie bay about the same as the original 10a11uscript. This is the House document, of which copies are found in· the bou111.i volume:;;, while the rest of the impression has been distributed,. all showiug the length of the bay 11.80 miles. ' ' The mup, (" B,") with au altered scale, was presented to the eommillee by Mr. Fel'guson, one of Mr. Ha~~js assistants. (67 and 70) · ·Tliis map has the u.riginal. scale cut ouq~ a small'pie?e of paper 1~asted u1u.lcrnea1h, to :fill the opening. In1mediat-e1y nbove tins openmg is the wor~ .''.scale," ou the small piece below "T~!ni" aud below this, 011 'thtt

'Rep . .No.· 110.

19

original paper, n. gradimted scale with the quarter miles murked !, ~, i; and below the scule are the words " 1 English mile." This scale meamres ou the paper 6.1 7 inches. Let it be kopt in mind that this is not .the original scale of " 3 inches to the mile," but tho correctc;d scale. This map, with the exception of the scale, is identical with the former ; and Mr. Ferguson informs us (67) that, according to this, the length of the bay " is 5.82 statute mileH, but that this map has uu erroneous scale attached to it,". aucl that "the actual <li:otuuce b.etween the two points specified is 5.623 miles, obtained by me [Mr. Fl'rgusou] by measuring 011 the origi11al topographical map." . . Whence comes this last "miswritiug of a fraction?" (71) Turn to the length of the corrected s~u.le for one lllile., nnd we see that its length on the paper is 6.170 inclws, while the note above, on the same map, says, "scale Tlfhtr·" Now, 10,000 times fU 7 i11clics will i1ot make 5,280 feet, or one mile, but it requires 10,000 times G.33(; inches; cousequently, tl1e cr1n·1·ectlid scale requires rorrecl i011,a11d to be ma<lc O. l 6G or one-sixth of uu inch longc1 before it will be aclurrllv con;ect."' Sinco these three maps arc presented wirli Ibis report, ally member of the Honse can satisfy himself in a fow llli11utcs that tile above sratemcnt is correct, without depending 11pon any thing bnt bis own f~yes and a common carpenter's rnlc. . . A similar examinati.rn will show that one of tl1c members, at least, wur deceived by incorrect slaterneurs, which le<l him to remark~ on rhis floor, thut, "while the ol'igirnll, and thl\ copy, too, us fal' as it is a copy, were perfect in every part, tlic scnlc of 3 inche~ 011 the margin, placml there by the copyist, ctTs in giving 3 inches instead of G inches ·lo the milo-:m error which Mr. Hassll'I' lwstcncrl to corrccr;" siuco we find 1!1ut the ouly correction in uny of these maps is the single nmp "B," (70) iu which 0110 incorrect scale, with nn error of Sin pluco of G.33-0 inches, as it ought to hnvc been, (that was exactly copied from thll original,) was cut our, nud another incorrect scale, with G.17 in place of G.!336, substituted w;t11 a pen on Jiu! single copperplale cop,1;. So tlia 1, after two al/empts from tlw coast; 1mrvey~ we can ascertai11 nothing from any of these maps bnt tho picture proportions, si11ce 1wnc of the scales on the maps ure correcl, as we ascerrain from the i11ve~tigatin11 hl'fore tho corn111ittce. (Gi) FortmmtP.ly for the el 1gra V·'r, lie had preserved the origin:tl manuscript, which was 11ot known hy the rommittce to be in cxistl'lice until six wcdcs after the altered copy had bcei1 prouuced. , It is n serious q u6stion for tlie House to determine whcrhcr n person is tit to conduct tho coa:>t snrvey whose mind is iu such co11ditio11 t.hut he denies 'his own map, inn circular over his own name, (71) (distribntod among the ·members,) aud charges ouc of the coinmittoe \vith doing· him a wilful inJustlcc, (which, taken in connexion with the coutext, means tlint' ho has ·made a false nu<l malicious statement, to i11juro Mr. Hassler,) although Mr. · Hu.f$!'Eir had a. full knowledge of all the circum:,;tuuces connected with tlte ·history of this ma pr not only from recollection and from the uotcs jn his otv!l otj]ce, but f¢_rn tho priutcd documcuts 1111oted in the uotes, (69) and when the wholtl,circumstuuccs of the case, us described by !Jim, are prove'd

'
If, in formihg the COrrcctcd BClllC, ii'WRli ill(eni)od lo nllow for tho Phrinking Clf·lbe }iape11 ant} Mn&equently'to reduco the lcnglh ·or <he ·cn)o <hnt woukl hue lu'cn placed on the manuacript,
e

\hen \ho lcugth

?.f thie ac11\e ahou\u h11ve been 6.27 i11ch11s,

or 1-lOth of an incb longer.

R~~p.

No. 170.

by these maps, now presented to, the House, to have. been impossible. ~.t .is a Lio very re1uad1:able that· Mr. Hassler has suppressed the date of tins , niap in the staternerit (2) which he gave to the committee, and which is ascertained, by re-exami11ation, to be correctly copied from the original ." ISS-." A.tid, again: in his late circnlar. printed at Philadelphi:t; the .same date is givc11 still more iudc.fiuitcly, "18 ,"at page 26. This map, :whose <late he has forgotten, alll.l apparcutly eaunot discover, is one of the only three maps that have beeu published, and one of the eigl1t which are ...all that Mr. Hassler shows have been produced by the coast survey. Tho :remaining five have mwer been puhlished. (2) , . But, in his enurncratiou, (2) he has forgotten to mention a ninth map, being a chart of the upper eud of Newark bay, on a scale of about l!:l '·inches, or one Frcnclt foot, to the mile. The map is on file among the docnanents of the House, having been otficially sent ther~ hy the Scl'retary oi the Treasury, who received it from Mr. Hassler; but, like tlic other five :tnaps, it has never been published. (69 bis.) These omissions of Mr. Hass· ter a.re noted without fnrtl'.cr comment: Copil!S of the printed map were distributed, in 18 rn,among those w !Jo 11avi.gate that bay, but, fortunately, it was so extremely inaccurate that 110 orw was -<l.eceived by it, nnd it has folle11 stillborn from the press, haviug neither .1aiilude, 1011git11de, compass bearings, nor'divisions, along the margiu; aud :the-top of tbe map is 11ot north, but 11orthwcstward, so that we !Jave 11othbut a picture with a scale showing the length l I .80 miles~ in place of !i.623, which Mr. Hassler calls " an uccideuta! miswriting of a fraction ur ,.ilnC of his [!.\Ir. Gedney's] subalterns," (71) unless he refers to tho second 'error .i11 tho altered scale, making thi;.: b<iy 5.52 miles long. Is Mr. ,Hassler to l>c excused for presenting, officially, a false u1ap, be~use the error was made by an assista11t'.1· assista11t .'l If so, whut be.comes of our confidence in the coast :-;urvcy ? It was .$lated 011 this floor that this was ''but a solitary fact in a sur·vey which has been going 011 for the last ten ye<qs." Things nnsee11 are judged by those that arc seen. We have,.Lesi<les the ,map l\Ot noticed by Mr. Hassler, but eight" facts" from the whole work; 'b.Od.this one fact, after having been corrected, still rcqnires the correction to 1ie carrected, besides being i11 other respects useless, on account of omissions! 'l'be other charts have not been examined by the committee.

iug

16.
The system of triangulation contains within itself an inherent defect, .that is avoided in a measured survey. In the latter case, each course (or azimuth) and dist~nce is c11tirely independent of that which preceded; so that, if we cor.nl.llit ah error in one liue, it docs not affect those tint suc-ceed; but in a syst11m of triangles we get nothing but proportions, after wo leave the measured base. Consequently, if an error be made in any part -0{ the work, that enor vitiates all that follows, unless the place of thu -error be discovered; and, without u <lonhle series of triar1gles, we cannot discover that there is auy thing wrong,until we get to the 'verification base. :Still, a trigo~wmetrical smvey is far superior ton me~sure~{_survey, whe~c "t~e country 1s ndapted to tile former, because the three angle.fl 'Of every mam 'tr111,ngle being mea!>urell, (19 uncl 45) and the dimensions of the carr,l;r being ·wery nearly. known, the sum Qf the three observed angles, wh~n ¢pmpared
.'

'

Rep.

:No.

1o;o.

2f

with what they shonld be, according to calcnlation, will show if there is any material <1rror. But when we reach a flat couutry, without any natu.. ral elevations, (78) we may reasonably doubt whether much confldeuce can be placed upon n survey wil1101tl line(tr measurement, when that surve,Y: is to be made by measuring two augles, or even only one angle of. a trian,gle, .and calculating the others from data fnruished by 'astronomical observh.tiotis-thus reducing a triangulation into what we.might term a biangu.lalion, or an 11ne-u11gulation. Hence we may infer tho causfl of the ditiicul\y that Mr. Hassler found in making the committee cllmprel1cnti what he meant by " mixed astronomical and geodeticul observations.,'' aml that caused him to send in the communication contaiuing the une-angulalion problem. (78 his.)
17.

Mr. Hassler commenced by takiug the primary triangles with sides 30 or 40 miles Jong. (22, 52) It bus been said on this floor that stages ca.n be erected and the trees cleared a.way. If the trees arc to be cleared, it will be a Horcttlenu lnbor, for the length of the liues of the primary tri~ a.ngulation alone will be about three times the leugth of the coMt surveyed, if tho i::urvey is to be accurate; and to see tho station points, for the secondary triangulation, will require the woods to bo cleared away to a still greater extent. Neither will the erection of stages be so small a matter as might bt:: supposed at first sight. If we wisll to take a sight of 401miles, it will require a stage ut etteh end about 400 times eight inches high, or !l,6S feet; if 30-mile sights, then the stages mnst bo 225 times eight iuchefiPtJ 1'50 foet; if 20 mile sights, tile stages must bo l 00 times eight inches, or '&f' feet lligh, eveu supposiug no irregularity of the grou11d between tho points ri.siug to u higher lovel tbuu the station poiuts . . l.htt this ii! uot tho only difficulty. After we erect a stage of 150 feet liigli for the theodolite, am! auotlier 150 high .fot· the heliotrope, for 11' sight of ~O miles, we are Just able to see along the surface at half the distauce l>otweeu the poiuts, even supposing the ground to be as level as the ocean. aml clear of brush. If auy obstruction exist, each stage mus! be raised that much higher, and ~Vt: nre theu just able to see over the top of the iutcrvcuiug object. But. sowe1hi11g more than tliis is required. \Ve must sec accurately. The ex~ tructs from Mr. llussler's pupers 011 the coust s11rvuy, publislicd after tlw sus. peusion of the work iu 181 S, sho IV the Ji llicultie:i th<~l ho met in taking obimrvatious on ~)bjects but a few llli!es tlistaut. (52 bis aud 50) Wo tuuy heuceiufer tho quality of the observations that would bo obtained by long sights, swcepiug along close to the surface of tlie oartl1 half way between the extremes, aud leaving the surface hut eight inches for tho first mile, thirty.twct inches for the second, aud so on as the :;quan: of t.ho distance, each wny from the centre, amid the irn·gular refraction pro<lucocl by the boiling,eddy. ing currents of u1r of unecpml <leusity, thut are altuost uuivurs~dly met with 11ear tho surface either of cunh or ocean. Now, it is through difficulties such as thesu that Mr. llasslel' proposes to carry on bis survey' outirnly liy angles, without any liuoar measurnmeut.
(7~)

: The undersigucd will not n11<ler1uk·} to s:.1y that this is uot all right ir· priuciple. illlt We hold it to be Olli' uuty, :IS lllCll of COOllUOll tlellSO, to CUlL

22

Rep. No. 170.

a halt, oud, by applicalion to the scienrific and the. prac.ticnl .me11. of the country, to ascertain.whether our Southern coast admits of triangulation; or whether we shall not waste a large sum of money ann\ial\y (41 bis) in carrying on a survey that will be mucq inferior to one which might be made in Jess time, and at a vastly reduced cost, even supposing the present superi11tende11t to work more rapidly in the midst of difficulties than he has thus for' done, where the country was suitable to a survey by triangnlatiop. (78) · ·The total r~port of 1842 is giveu in the notes, (90) as far as it contains any infonnation .respecting the coast survey, that part being comprised in .sixty-nine liues of Document 23, exclusive of a few lines.respecting the appropriation of "$100,000," (for the next year's work,)" which several of the latter years have proved to be exactly adequate," &c. (41 bis.) · Of thi~ same report, sixty-seven lines are occnpied by a description of a. dividing instrument (88) for his rnacltine sltop, about which he made some great mechanical improvement! . 'l'he Ho.use will judge whether tliis repoFt of g1meralitics, in return for SlOO,OOO e]i:peudcd, ia· in accord.anc(i with the directions of the Secretary of *El Treasury, (4) and ·whether Congress would be justified in passing an appropriation bill for $100,000, without any estimate being submitted, solely because Mr. Hassler says tha.t it is" exactly adequate." (41 bis.)
lS.

The next question that prcseuts itself is the organization necessary to

·1·· rry on an extensive survey ; and, to settle this point, we must trace its
: : ," ress of triangulation from the beginning to the end. The object of the . "' ary E:urvey is to connect the extremes by a series of triangles, (24) ·having the sides of the most approved length, and so that the angles . may be as nearly equal as possible. This give11 us the greatest ncctll'acy, ·:both in the extreme and intermediate poiuts. The secondary triangles, founded on the primary, must depend for their shape upon the country to be suncyed. The angles of the seco11dary triangles are necessarily irregular iu mauy cases, uncl consequently, independently of their being more , uunierous, they are not as accurate as the main triangles, which are chosen with especial reference to their beiug as nearly equilateral as the country .idmits. Bnt this e.rror in the sccomJary triangulation is not continued through the survey further than lo the uext poi11ts of the main tri1111gnla. tion, where a new start is to be made from the main triangle points. The plaue table conies iu and fills up the <letails on laud, aud the naval parties -take the soundings at sea. Now, the field worlt. iu all these operations, requires very little &cience. For the primary triangles, any man of common sense can choose points 'that will fulfil all the conditions required; and, whe11 the points are fixed, · it requires nothing but good eye-sigltl, aud a know ledge of the m1!chanical use of tile theodolitn, (Which ca11 be acquired in a very short time by any one acquainted with graduated instruments,) and cure and attention in making the observation. It would' certainly be no objection that the observer should be able to reduce his observations, but this is not necessary. · He may furnish the best of observations for the use of the mathematician, although he may undcrstaud notlii11g of the scientific principles that govp ern the result. The same is true of the secondary triangulation, n.nd of the soundings, whether in sight of land or in deep water. 'fhe plane-table

·nep. ·~o. ·"i7o.

2S

,operations (3.5) are so simple thn't a!)y common snrveyor could do the work, which is ·in fact much· less difficult that mnny questions that occur :in a fo.r(ll survey. There is therefore no positive. necessity of hnviug any person of high scientific attainments engaged in t.Re field work, tll collect the datti for ~al culation. (24) The observations require mainly the· attention of ca.refill men, who possess both mental and physical activity sntficient to keep themselves aud assistants in motion, that the data may ba collected with ·the greatest accuracv, in the least time, and in the most economical manner. These observers."can be kept in constant motion. During the 1mmmer they ·can operate at the North, aud during the winter at the So nth. Their observations not being reduced by themselveR, they cannotfin·ce result.~, (60 to 64) for they will not know what will bathe result; and thei'r work being reduced bf otbers, who would have no interest in concealing nn error, they would fee the. full importance of being accurate, since any error would .certainly be exposed. . The observations thus made might ho regularly transmitted lo this city, (4, 63, and .59) and placed in the hnnds of a mathematician, who, with his office assistants, should be constantly nngaged in reduci11g the work, and . preparing draughts for the engraver. (40) · As 10 the engraving, there can be but little doubt but.that it would be best executed by one who has made this trade the study of his life, and that there are many engravers iu this. country who can put accurately on copper all that the draughtsman can pni: \1pon paper; · We shonld then have the survey conducted on a system of practical utility, and moving rigid end foremost; (33) we should not be compelled to wait, as in the case of Mr. Hassler, yet a " few years 1 ' ( 41, 54) before WEI' can get any full account of. the.-:wwk ;· while, in place of attending to ·the main triangulation, which he' clai;ms as his exclusive property, he is conC(>ntrating about himself his work.men in his fonndry, his machinists for the man11facturt> of weights and inoasmes, (88) his machinists for making instruments, (88) his engravers, (88) his copperplate printern, {88) besides all the persons engaged in the coast survey, (28) mixing up the several branches Qf mechanics that are ordinarily looked upon as separate trades, each of which requires the separate ntte11tio11 of any ordinary man. Perfection iu uny thing require:. the undivided attention of the iudividual; and the "division of labor" is carried even into the Enropenn observatories, where one man takes the observations, for others in the same room t-0 redur,o by calculation. The observer and the rnnthPmntician ure different persons. This is the mode in which the operations '.ire co11d11cted iu a single stalicmary observatory in Europe. Compare this with the mode of co11d11cti11g tho .!Jmcrican coast survey. There is no inclina.tion to dclract any thing from the reputation of Mr. Hassler as a man of sdeucc. (HJ.) We arc willing to nssu111e nil that his friend!; cluim for him ou that score. We might even grnnt more than thoy ask; but this will not niter the position of the question at issue. Without undertaking to jndge of his mathematical lmowlcdgo, our duty is.to take a. common sense, practical view of the subject; it is not necessary to decide whether he is capable of co11d11cting the work properly, but whether he has actually do11e so. That this is not the cuse has been already shown, from his own testimony and that of his assistants.

Rep. N"o. _170.
19.

The o:bjection ;t<!'a .. scale of "so many miles to the inch'' ;is 'not 'Very evident. (91) If" we formed onr scales with reference lo th13· actual mile, it might be com:ctJ ·but, since we nse the small measures for a sri:all srn!e; a111l .since .the scale is theoretically of no importance as long as it is in proportion to the map, it becomes a mere question of conveniei1ce, whether w*' shall adopt.rhe scale of nh"D"· which rec1uires 6.336 inches to the mile, and -consf'querlt·ly is not only a difficult scaie to form accurately, but, not being in general use, mnii;t be formed expressly for these maps. . It is also a littie peculiar that our survey is calculated in French metres. (92) It is a measure not usual in the country, and, with the exception of ·a few metres that have strayed into this coi1ntry, must in general be de.due~(! from our foot or yard measure. The English used rheir own meas·ure; but, after all the expense of constructing standards for this country, .it seems that the very individual who had charge of this work rejects his o~n measure. These two points are of 110 great importance ; but it is an ,important. fact that our standard measure, as constructed by Mr. Hassler, .contains nothing but ynrds and decimals, and has neither a/oo/ nor an incli marked on it. · ,· If, then, we desire to ascertain the length of the foot, we must divide the ·standard yard into three parts, which is not a very easy matter, if we desire accuracy, while it might have been done in the first instance with as .much ease as to make the 1iecimal divisions by means of the expensive apparatus used for the constrnction of !he standards. It· also appears that, in addition to the innovation of mdr.g a difficnlt scale for the coniltruction of the maps, of m:i11g the French measure as the basis of our calc11lations, and of forming a standard without containing tho most common measures in use, we must also calculate \n triangular miles, (93) since the research of tho committee "exceeds itself 1tgain, when it comes to determine the square' miles covered hy triangles which have bnt three corners.~' (For other peculiarities, sec note 71 bis.)
20.

In conclnsio11, the following suggestions are suhrnittcd: That the Prcside11t be requested lo take such mcus1m~s as may preserve 'the measured b:ise, aud also the actual base, if, in his opiuio11, the su11w lie practicable; and lo inforlll tliis IIomw, at it5 next .~wssioll, of the existiug conditiou and the prospects of the future presnrvatioll of the same, together with such suggestions as he may deem advisable. That the President be requested to procure infomiatio11 from tho best sources, both sci1!1Jt1fic u11d prac1ical, as to tbc br~t rnocle of surveying the different districts of the United States coast, an<l the proper orguuiza1ion of the corps of surveyors und mathernaticiaus, in order that tile work may be done in tho shortest time and at the lcu;.,t cxpcusc co1Jsistcnt with the greatest accnracy and certainty in 1l1c results; aml rliat he cause the same to be transmitled to tfus Hon~e al the next session, in order t\i:il the f1chl work be resumed a11d proscc11tc<l wilh the greatest vigor, i11 accord.,.uce · with snch provisions as the wisdom of tlrn next Cougrcss may estal>lish, after bciug in possession of the scientific a1id practical informatio11 which the late investigation proves to be requisite to enable Co11grt'ss to ucl judiciously on the i;ubjcct. Also~ that all who take a11 iulcrcst iu the propor

.R~p . .N.o ·. 170.

25

organiz,at\on of tl'~e work be invited to transmit to the Clerk .of th\i; House s.~1ch l1ints as 'they may consider useful, to be. e.ndor~ed '' cqast survey.,'~. in order that 'he. Honse may be in possession of all the, information that c1;111 iri any wily be obtained. ' . ' . ' . Th.at the Qffice of the coast survey be no longer devoted t.o the mechanical ~pe~ations of manufactnrii1g· sun·eriug iustn1meL1ts 1 of cug,ravjig, a.11.d of printing, bnt, leqv.iug these to be perfornied by t h0se who .devote thloliqi~ entirely to. the::;i:: trades, the office be usl'ti tixclusi vely for tl,1~ scieutific .pur, ~6.ses of reduciug tho observations aud i1rotractiug the charts fur, tho en.gr.aver. . , · . . .· "rt.iat all the duplicates now iu t11c office of the coast survey be signed 'by those who made'the observutious or rndncetl the ~ame. · . That duplicate copies of all the works iu the coast survey office be im·medlately transmit~qd to the· Secretary of the Treasury, signeJ by thos~ who ai·e respQuslble for 'their accuracy. ·; . That all tli.e .ob~ervations ~hat have thus far been made be reduce4 to their firial results, and mu11nscript charts protracted from the same, giv:iug the latitude, longitnde, a11d compass bearings, as 11car us thoy can· bll ascerlriineu from the data as known at present; and thut .the extreme errol' tha.t may poss~bly exist be marked on the' face of said char~s; and that the saiil charts, when finished, aud co11taiui11g all ~he,.. informatio.u that.. h11~ hee11 collected; he tr!J,nsniitted to the ~ecre~a·~y qf the Trl;)asury, who sh.i!-1~ cai1se th~ san:ie lo bo engra yed, iu part, and Hublishecl for immediate use; and. that the Secretary <;if the Ti·ensury retain the plates and mauus~dpts, in ordQ,~ that ~he. e11gravi11g may be fi11ishcd us soo11 as it is nscc,rtainc.d that tht~y are correct, or what corrections require \to be made; (89) ~nd that tho publication of said charts be ilo1le by coulract, accon.liug to speciment ~nd w.ith the condition that the copy shall uot vury from the original bey~1id a mi'nuto fixed limit, :;o a~ to be prncl£c,ally identical with the otigiual ; u11d that the plates now in lhll liauds of the c11gn1vers, in the office of the coast survey, be considered us co111iug 1111<ler the same condition as the preceding. In the mean time, that the vesseb now engaged in the coast snrvey (after dovotiug aboqt two months in ord..::r to finish the soundings iu tllosc places where the signals are now stumling) be furnished with charts, chronomet~rs, and other 1wcessnry instmrnc11ts, from· the <lcpot, to be allowed to refit from the public stores, an<l 10 be employed iu determining the latitndc, longitudo, and compass bcuriugs of all the light-houses, capes, headlands, island~i, sa11d bars, and other iiuporurnt poi11ts along the coast-to be employed at the South i11 wiuter a11<l at the North in summer ; to tmnsmit monthly returns of all 1lieir observations auti results, signed by the officer who takes aud calculalcs tho same, witl1 a 11ote as to tlw euntidonce that he places iu his own observations; and that the p11blic ho inforrned through the uewspap1HS of all the inaccuracies in our chnrts us soon ns th!:'y are nscertaine<l, givi11g the 11ame of the i11Llivi<l11al ll[lllll whose ohservatio11s the tle1ormi11atiou rcsls. Also, tllat these lll\1llicttl observers hn direclell to take such snulllling~ as may be of inrnwdiate i111porta11ec, ill order to correct the Cl'l'!ll"li in our clmrts, and that the samn bo pnblbhctl in likQ ma111wr, tu warn the 1mvigator of ti. · hidcfrn <11111gcr. Also, that ob:Sorvulious he mude, so us to co11ncct tho points, whose position

110US

in latitude and Jongitbde have been ~scertained, with some fixed. COllSpicobjects in the· neighborhood, in order that the identfoal spot may be found by any other observer at any fmure time, when the surv~y of the coast shall be carried over that district. That the Topographical bureau be directed to take all the detail surveys on land, it:acluding the military iuforwa1io11 necessary for .the defence of the countzy, from points furnished by the geuera I snrvey of the coast, and that the draughts prepared from the same be preserved in the War Department, for the exclusive use of the Government, while the navigator's chart shall exhibit 110 more of the inland districts than such as shall be. necessary for the navigator, according to the system pursued in preparing the. sea charti:; by the Governments of France and England. · That, in future, detailed estimates of tht3 expenses be n1aqe to this House, nnd that no appropriation be made hereafter, in. the form Of one graud contingency of ~100~000; and that the Secretary of th.e Treasury be required to transmit an annual statement, in detail. of the expenilirnr(l 'ol the· appropriation. That there be a revision of the salaries and emoluments of the persons engaged in the coast survey. And, finally, that the superintendent be appointed by the Presideut: with the sanction of the Senate; that all o1ficers receiving more than $1,000 per annum (exclusive of the officers detailed by the Topographfoal bureau, as above stated) be appointed by the superintendeut, with the consent of the President; and that the nnmber, ddti<~s, and compensation of all the subordinates be snbm.itted by the superintendcut to the President; and ·sanctioi1ed by him, before they be employed by the superintendent. Respectfully submitted. JOHN D. A YCRIGG.

NOTES.
[The referencea to Document No. 43, .Tunuary 12, 1843, hei11g the joumol of tho proceeding· of the select committee 011 the coast eurv~y, are simply marked with the nnmo of tho individual under examination, nn<l th11 page of tho <locumrnt on which it will be found. The references lo Hneeids Coast Hurvcy Mhow the pages from which the extracts are taken, from "r.spers on variou· euhjccte connected with the survey of the coast of the TTuiled State· by R. H11·sler, extructed from tho Americun Philosophicol Tr11nH11ctione, vol. 2, new Pori~~ · .Philiideiphia, 1824." ·Thi' refore11c1·H to lhe documents arc principally to th1· reports of Mr. Hueeler.]

·r.

No·rE (1.)
, 16. Qnestion. Arc we not greatly deficient in knowledge of soundings in Buzzard's bay, Nantucket shoals, Cape Cou, a11d Massacbusotts bay? Answer. Yes. 17. Qnestion. Is not a knowledge of those sonndings of the greatost importance to ua v igation ? Answer. Yes; it is more wanted there than any where else. Mo.re tonnage passes. Most vessels from guropc, for New Yorlc and Philadelphia, come between the Gnlf stream and Nantucket shoals, in addition to the .navigation north of Cape Cod. Most of the coasting trade comes through the Vineyard. [Blunt, p. 23.

NoTE (2.)

Lisi of the indfoidual mops e:reculed and delivei·ed.-[Hass/et', p. 62.

N_"· i-------M-aps. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ,___ l · Harbor of Bridgeport, Ct. Newark bay, N. J. 3 Harbor of New Haver., Ct.

B_y_w_b_o_m_m_·_"_e·~-1 Sa~
1-10,000 1-10,000 1-10,000

J_n_at_e_.

-l-------Re_m_ar_ks_._-.,...-~-Treasury Department, for the honorable J. W. Williams. Treasury Department, light-house, Mr. Pleasonton. Treasury Depa,rtment, for Senator Huntington. . Topographical bureau. Treasury Department, for the honorable .T. W. Williams.

2

4

s
6
8

Lt. G. S. Blake Lt. Th. R. Gednev - I Lt. G. 8. Blake, ~nd '-V m. M. Boyce, Countrv between the Thames and j F. H. Gerdes Niantic, from the sound up to Mohigan creek. 1 Sandy Hook bar - / C. Renard

1835 Engraved. 183- : Engraved.· 1838 Engraved.
1840

I

1-10,000 1-20,000 1-10,000 1-20,000

1841

,.
1842 1842 1842

71
1

Thames river, topography and hy-1· F. H. GerJes drography. , . Sandv Hook bar - H. L. Whiting Fisher's Island sound, and the en- F. H. Gerdes trance of New London harbor,Ct.
· l'i. B. Mr. Hassler has forgotten the date, 1839.

...
N Q

,...

(See page and note 20 and 69.)

Bep. N6. .1:TO.
NoTE ~3.)
AN ACT to provide for eurvrying tho coasts of tho United Btalee.

SEc. I. Be it enacted hy the Senate and House of RPpre.venlatfoe., of the United Siu lea of .!lmerica in Congre.vs assembled, T~at the ,Prcsideut of the United States shall he, and he is hereby, authorized and requested to cause a survey to be take·n of the coasts of the United States, in which shall be designated tht: islands and shoals, with the roads or places of anchorage, within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United States; and also the respective courses and distances between the principal capes or head lands, together with such other· matters as he may. deem proper for c~mpleting an accurate chart of every part of the coasts wi!hin the extent aloresaid. SEC. 2 . .!lnd be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for the President of the United States to co.use such examinations _and observations to be made, with respect to St. George's bauk, and any other bauk or shoal, and the soundings and currents beyond the distance aforesaid to the Gulf stream, as in his opinion may be especially subservient to the commercial interests of the United States. · SEC. 3 · .!lnd be itfurther enacted, That the President of the United States shall be, and }ie is hereby, authorized and requested, for any of the purposes aforesaid, to cause proper and intelligent pe1"sons to he employed, and also such of the public vessels in actual service as he may judge expedient, and to give such instructions for regulating their conduct as to him may appear proper, according to the tenor of this act. SEc. 4 · .flnrl be it furllm· euacled, That, for carrying 1his act into effect, there shall be, and hereby is, appropriated a sum not exceeding fifty thousand dollars; to be paid out of any moneys in tho Treasury not otherwise appropriated. [.llpproved, Fr.hruary IO, 1807.]
AN ACT to Corry into eJTect All act to provide for a ·urvey of the eout of lhtl United State~ .·

SEc. 1. Be it enacted by ll;e Senrtle·and flfJuse of Representatives of the United States of .!lmerica in C'ongr·i:ss assembler/, That for carrying i11to effect the act entitled "An act to provide for surveying the coasts of the United States," approved on the tenth day of Fdm1ary, one thousand eight hundred and seven, there shall be, and hcrdiy is, appropriated a sum not exceeding twe11ty tlw11sa11d dollars, to be paid 0111 of a11y money in the Trrasnry not otherwise appropriated; and the so.id act is hereby rf'vived, and shall be deemed to pro,vicle for the survey of lbe coasts of Florich, iu the same manner as if the same had been named therein. Sm;. 2. And he it furtlter en(lc/e.d, That the President of the United States be, and he is hereby, ;111thorized, in ancl about the execntion of the mid act, to use all maps, charts, books,· instrumeuts, a.till apparattrn, which 11ow or hereafter muy belo11g to the United States, and employ all persons in the land and naval ~crvic1: of the United States, and snch astro11omers and other persons as he shall deem proper:_ Provided, Tl wt 11othi11g in this act, or tile act hereby revived, shall he consttm·d to authorize the construction or n1ai11tenance of a permanent astrorffi:lpical observatory. l(lJJ:pr._[JJ!crl July 1 o, 1832.]
· ISt·e volume 4., pago 19.

'

·'

;R~p.

No. l

70~

NoTxi(4;)

· The ·secreta~y _p(the. Treasury, August 3.· 1816, says: '"You will .mako freqnem reports ot yonr progress to tltis Department, and deposito here all
the surveys, draughts, uotes, charts, m~ps; journals, and documelll~, in anywise belonging lo the survey of 'the coust; and you will return the pllhlic inst.rumen ts and .bi;>p~s, to such pla~c us shall he directed, when they are no lo11ger req1Jir'erJ ,fo,i;,the,bnsiness of the survey." · ; .· : · ·" lf ii.t i\ny tiu1e ii ,should be .necessary· to explain the nature of your c11~o:g.q1i1en,t," &c.; '.' tlie. urticles submitted by yon Oil· the 11.Hh of Jul.}", 181,6,;'\vill be. resprtod to," particulnrly. / · , .hily 12 1 ~816, Mr .. Hassler proposes "to make, himself, .the prinoipnl part of the geni·ral large triangulations aud the consequent calculations.'' Tliat he .shall. receive $5,000 per. 11m11ml for all his expenscs,.except·those of a ptibl,ic lllltnrc,.nud (if understood cnncctly) that the followi11g shall be7 ~xcuptcd from tile orb.er expeuses of the work,. viz: "The clear executed copies of maps and charts, either geucral or particular, which will be I'e· q nire<l ,by the proper authorities, or prepn reil for pub Iishiug." Observe the co11ch~ding sentence-" 01· pre1mred for publislli11K" : · On tllu reappointment of Mr. Hassler, August 9, 1832, the Secretary of the Trnnsury says: "Yon will receiv1~, in full for all your services, n compc11snti1m ut the rate of $3,000 per n11nurn, and for all your personal expenses an nllown11ce at the rate of $1,500 pPr annum," &c. "In all other respects thur.1 those indicated by this letter, the- terms and nature of your c1npl11yn1e11( wil.1 be tho same as w1m1 fixed by the lotter addressed to you by this Department on the 3d of August, 1811i.'~
No-rE (5.)
"Survey of tl1e coast"" must present tho localitios of all the pnssuges and gorges that leuU to tltesn vallt!ys, &c., becm1so it rnnst contain all thut is 1iccued for tho proper d.efouce of the coast·i11 tho cnse, of any attack whatsoever, just as much us the outlines of the coast und the soundings, be_c;luse, like th_c~e, furuish the guide to th11 11uvi3atio11," &c. (Sec this extract-military pmposcs, statistics, und article 47, for use of State survc>ys; 1834-':3,'j, Doc. 2, page 372.) [ llaasler.

Non: (6.)

"In the yea.rs 1793 und l 7!M, Mr. Gardiner and the gentlemen of his <lepartme,nt accompa,1'ir.<l us iu tho survey of 1he coasl of Hamp$hire n11d tho Isle of Wight, und have since finished the military description of both, dmwn on a scale of three inches to the mile; but those pla11s, together with one of tho country round Tunbridge, nnd ano1her of thut nronnd Dagshot a1id Farnham, are lodged in tho Tower, for tho 11s1i of the Government, a11d' not submitted, from obvious motives of polir.y' to public inspection." (Preface to Mudge's Trigo.nometricul Survey, vol. 1, page 12.)
NoTE (7.)

"Both works" (i.e., the co.¥.~·illllrvey and weights and measures) "are equ11lly h1 the intere~t of cornm.1trce, a._0~1l~av~ no reference to the uu.vy.

30

Rep.

No.. 110.

The accurate survey of the coast is made with the view to protect the property afloat on vessels from shipwreck, and the regulation of the weights and measures is to," &c. (1835-'36, Doc. 2, page 385 1 vol 1.) NoTE (8;) The ttim of the coastf:urvey is, and has always been considered to be, by all the successive administrations i;ince its existence, to furnish, with the fullest accuracy possible, all the ge0graphica1; topographical, and hydrographical data that may in any way be needed for the navigation and the defence of the coast, in their generality, and to the extent of the country in the rear of the coast, to which the valleys extend, that empty their waters into the Atlantic, and are thus separated from it by some chain of mountains, or what may be called tho nearest chains of elevations separating the interior from the coasting countries ; and that this work should also furnish the elements to any future map of the country desired, as it is by its nature so extensive, and i:o 4tnated, as to furnish· the elements of maps of all the States.· In fact, some States have already united in the work, to extend these elements to the advahtage of an accurate map of these States. (Doc. 28, page 3, 1811-'42.) [Hassler.
I

NoTE (9.)
96. Question. Do you regard the survey as a great scientific enterprise, embracing delicate problems of geodetic research, beyond what is ueccssary · to an accurate but rapid survey of the coast for nautical purposes? Answer. There is not a single movement in all I do which is not necessary for the lion9rable au<l faithful execution of the work. 97 .. Question. Is it intended as the basis of a topographical, military, and atatistical survey of.the whole Uni.te<l States 1 Answer. That is the Gover1m1f'nt's business, and not mine. 98. Question. Is the survey conducted now with a view to any such ultimate purposes? Answer. That is not given in 11ny charges by the Government; therefore I do nothing with it. (Hassler, p. 11.

NoTE (10.)
31. Question. Of what use are toe plane tables, so far as regards navigation? Answer. I d<' not consider it of any use to extend the survey any further back than the slope of the hills at the head of navigation. 32. Question. Are the plane tables further back? Answer. I do not know how far back. I presume they are. [Blunt, p. 24.

NoTE (11.)

"The limitation to any determined distance from the coast would require that the mountains, which are indispensably necessary for tho station points of the survey, be within that distance." [Hassler, p. 46. ' : 16. In general, a limitation to three miles from the const, ns has been

Rep. No. 170.

31

talked of, is a virtual abolition of the work itself, as well from the side of the natural as the moral difficulties it would suscitate, and the impossibility of givi(lg to the work the required accuracy; nor would any other limitation be less·injurious. , [Hassler,pp. 54, 55. 17. 'rhe shore line of a coast is never seen from a ship approaching it ; the picture of the elevated land is what presents itself to the sailor; in th~s he is guided by so much of the topography as can be seen at .a reasonable disiarice at sea, and this lies back in the country at distances which are not determinable but by actual survey; thence the only rule is that which I have followed, and long ago slated, namely : the "topography must go to the ridge of mountains which dete~rninc the heads of the coasting rivers or creeks, or their passage through such mountains, what is called in France, technically,' le versant de la Vallie cOtiere,' or 'le voisaut de la cote.''' Si1ch it has always been understood and proved. . 18. My rule of action, and ~uide in the work, must be my coutract to make the work "honomble and perma11entl.1J useful, to tlie nation:" the way to obtain the aim must be left to me.; if I was to be guided by any foreigu direction, except mathematical principles, some of my assistants might even rise up against me, refusing to do whnt they might think to exceed my powers, and I wonld either have lo dismiss them for such refusal,. or the work would become impossible. Ulassle1·, P· 55, No·n: (12.) ·
l Ol. Question. Cannot tho survey of the bays and ri \'ers be post poued, without injury to the general work, till tho survey of the coast prnper is' completed? · AQswer. ~t is impossible, because no accuracy could be got for' ;tho coast. [Hassler; p. 11.

Non: ( 1 3.)
79. Qnostion. What benefit results to navigation by having all the detllils of the topography of the country? Answer. There is no more topography in the maps than what is necessary for that object. 80. Question. Cannot a portion of the topography be dispensed with without detriment to the object of a kuowledge of the coast for navigntion? Answer. Not to that extent to which it is carried now. I could not dispense with any of the topography as it is now done. [Husslc1·, p. 9.
NOTE (14.)
81. Question. Do not, the hydrogrnphical parties have to WRit for those engaged on the topography? Answer. They cannot. go six inches without it, but they d~. not wait ; [Hass/er,p. 9. the topogra.phical part has always been ahead.

No·rE (15.)
30. Question: Are yon able to keep up with tho triangulatio1i? Answer. Yes; and I have been in advance of the plane-tab!~ parties. 31. Question. Are the plane-table parties necessary to the soundings? Answer. Yes. ['Gedney, p; 40,
·· · ,, , · ·· · l

Re{/.

No. -no.:

NoTf: (ta.)

.'rn. 'Qnes'rion~ Cutl' il 'topogr:i.pl!ical map. so COllStrttcted ns .to g_~ve _in de-' tail a full' a·nd se/fLexplaining picture of rho country, 'that; with' the rn~p before the eye 1 the military operatious may be properly judged and 'gui'd'elJ, in the· ~abi11et; be obtained, in 1:arrying 011 the coast smvey, withbu( add-' ing greatly to the {~xperise, and materirdly delayiug the exect1tion t,he
work? · '

of'

, Am1wer. No, it cannot.

[Blalce,p.

4i..

·

Non (17.)
27. Question: Is the topography of the country within tlie coast of a1JY importance to navigators? · · ·· ' ·Answer. It is not, except for four or five miles, or where there is anv temarkahle ~minence or other object inland. · ' 1 28. Qnestio11. ls it custo'mary to lay down the topography of the conutry on the charts of navigators?. · Answer. I hav.e never seen it in any charts except of isla!'ltls. In charts of the West India and other islands it is sometimes given; but inth,ese cases it is not neef·ssary for purposes of navigation. tGedney, p. 39 .. 59. Question. What necessity is there of plape-table parties, except near the coast? · Answer. No absolute necessity, except for the secondary triangulation neat the coast. . . 60. Qnestion. How for in from the coast have plane-table parties gone -0n the survey ? . . 'Answer. I cannot say precisely. They are carried on by Mr. Gerdes,, Mr. Sahds, Mr. Boyd, Mr. Dickens, ancl Mr. Werner. 61. Question.· Do the plane-table parties require much science? Answer. They require practical skill. [Ferguson,p. 18.

NoTE (18.)
· "It is now necessnry tn execute, if pQssible, iu coutinue<l regul.ar .succession, 1dl the topographical pan of the country that is uow covered by: 1>rimary aud secondary triangulatious."-,.(1835-'36, vol. I, Doc. 2, p. 383.)

[Hassler.
No'l'E (:HJ.).
'.

The sun'cys made in Emopc, of sufficient, note to apply to them.the mathematical·"and physical' sci<~nces, which 111re, 'in: principle, to be applied, and without which success is dire.clly impossible, were ·an begun in the' last centtny npon l'limilar plans of triangnlatio9; varied as they all ure iq the ructhods and mode of tho detail executiori, they all agree 'in that p'riri;l

ciple. Austria began already, after tlu~ timl1s of Cussini and Liesganig, ( 1768,) rn;ing the triarigles of Liesgauig, m~de for the determinatio\1.of degre~s.of the mqri<lian; In Austria rind iii Hi.lugary, as the primary muthern.al~cal
el·!IDP~ts

pf'her fut.ur'e maps. ·· · ·.' . · .'·,'· . Hnssia h.egan t:mcler Catharine II, nnd has· since· cimslantly either taken up ai·different .ipoiuts or extended the triangulations successively ·ci~dc,

.R'ep. No. 17'.0.
·.with al ways more perfect~on of n'let'l. of science, N~_.;v, th~se ·t~iabgiitations form a fully connected series from north of the arctic cil'cle to so1\th1of·Dorpat. The work goes now on, with a great abundance of means; \n's w~ll fo . persons as money, for the topographical and hydrographical parts; to \Vhich the triangles give the foundation, principally around tho Hnltib; ·' · · · · Sweden has similarly taken advantage of the trigonometrical operatioi'is of SvanberfO'' in Lapland, for n measmement of a degree ofthe'me1·idiiui begun in 180 , for its maps and tho charts of its coast. . . Denmark began, under Bugge, before 1784, for its peninsi1la ·; and not many years ngo·the part of Holstein was triangnlated, in conjunction with Hanover. The kingdom of Ifano\·cr has been triangulated by Professor Gauss. Prussia, having taken ndvantagu of the extension of the F1·ench triangulation in Germany over its present Rhenish provinces, has not only extended this triangulation over a great part of its dominion~, but hi:l.s ndde,d ·ne\Vmea11urcrnents of degreos all over, until lately, Mr. Bessel, nstrono1ne1· ro~·al of Konigsberg, joined these worlrn with tho!>e of Russia jnst q~ioted .. ·All thcso works have been, and aro still, used as olements for tho·geo'graphical, topographical, anrl hydrogrnphical snrveys of the country. · . " Swabia was 1ri1111gulnted by my university friend, Professor Bohuenberger, of 1'Ubint;·m1, 11nd I accompunied hi111, in l "95, in the junction of hls triangles with mine in Switzerland. · " · The operations of thq triangulation of llavnriu are well !mown atid fully . described. All the States of Germany have either made tria.ngulations lipon their own base lines, independent of tho French triangulations, which were constantly carried on in the rear of tho French nrmios, during the whole:o( their campaigns, from 179 l onwarrls, or usBd theM very frianguh1tlolis; and the different States have gro1111ded upo11 them the maps M their countries. · · The same is the case with Italy, where the triangulations of Boscovich, Boccarin, Zach, No11et,'tho joint Austria.11, l<'reuch, and Sardinian oommission, au<l others, from bofore the French R1.wolntion, during the same:, !ind since, have _beou, and arc, constantly used us foundation to any mlt(is or charts that aro constmcted. Naples nnd Sicily proccodcd i11 the same manner; unrl the whole \Vas executed without any nuvltl officr.1w being empliiyed in it. ·· · In 1791 I harl ull'~ady bog1111 myself iii Switzerland a similar operation, by the measurement of n bMo line of ubont 7& miles long, npon Which some triangles were grounded. Tho several subseqnont revolutions interrupted the work, but it was taken np n.gain repcatt~dlr, by me and others, upon the same plan, and with these m.11 very same first clements. According to tho latest accounts, the topogmphy has 110\v been completed. It was the notice of thaj work of mine, which came to this country about the time of my arrival, irl 1805, which occasioned first the proposition to mu to do the same hero: thence the law of 1807, and the call for plans of opera· tion, of which mine, now proceeded upon, was selected from Rmong thirteen, by the nnanimons vote of a special committee assembled in Philadelphia, and: by the President himself.· (See tho historical part of the printed dc>cuments, vol. 1.) . . . · France began its first map, aftor the triangulation:nr Cassini, in the early part of the last century. The, defects .which this work present,d in.its detai',
3

.R:ep. No., l70.
.m~pl;s qf:~pe ,scien,cos.that progressed rapidly after ,those times, produced
c~~,<1~,t}on, :w,hicb was ,!)Pt ,made

with the care now' used, and t~e,.irnprove

first i,n 1786,the triangul!ltion to join the observatories of Paris nutl· Green~i~h, ,under Cassiui, ttie thircl in France, and General Roy in England. ·Im}~Je_diately upon it followed the decision of measuring 12 degrees of the meridian,, .to serve equally as a base, lo the establishment of standards of weight.11;n~ m,easure, upon an unit of length derived from the quadrant of the mer1d1an of the earth, and by the most accurate principl~s cf nntural philosophy, P.pplied to the capacity mcasmes~ anti tho weights . . Only ;after ~be.i;e w.orks had passed the oi·deal of approbation of the men
of scicuce sent from all the continental nations of Europe, assembled: in Paris in: 1800, (England alone refusing to take u share it:i a scienUfic usr/u.l _aim, 'f.hile ;it ~ruploycd its arms a11d treasures to the destruction of tho continent of.Europe,) the French, as well as the foreign members of this·scientific convention; reporting jointly aud unanimously_:only then, the accu.rate .clc111e~ts thus obt11ined were decided to be applied to the construction ·ofa new, .map of France and to the charts of its coast. · · . Vfhen.allthe ·interior that had been done by the triangulation and the topographical works, which always must form the base of the hydrograp;hic op~rations, had been executed, the western coast wns begun in 1816,·and acco~ml reudered of it in 182!1. The coast of the Mediterranean, as far as hi1hor10 kuown, is not yet finished; but, during the whole of the wars of -1he Revolution, the triarigulations whose bases laid in the French works were carried 011 as their armies proceeded. England grou11ded the fir~t starting of its sunrey upon the very base line measurec.l hi.1789 by General Roy, on the occa!:!ion of the junction of the -0bservatories.mentioned above, and hus continued it ever since upon the ;sanie plan. Several volumes of the work are extant, but the whole is not yet completed. About the year 1 hl8, according to English accounts of that time, upon tlic part. of the work in Ireland, "above GOO persons, . of' 9ifien~ut conditious, were and are continually employed," &c. Accbrding to later: verbal accc11mts, the work goes on now from Dublin, south, to-

:wardi, ~orlc.

. . ln tb.e Ea&t I ndics, the J.jnglish began already, in 1800, triganomctr·ical
-grourm~d

surveys, upo11 which the topographical a11cl hydrogmphical details a're and carried on, like all the mit, upon the same principles as"the survey of this country now is, but with ituinensc·ly greriter expenses, and .a per:sQncl for moro numerous. The work is proceeding now always ,µpon tbe.~ame pla11s ancl principles, having been extcndnd man~r degrees of latitndtM1(1rth iu llw new territories, undPr Latnbdon, Everet, &c. '· .. Europe is ~overcd with well-connected sc·ries of triallgnlations, from. the .south of Sicil_v 10 past the north polar circle; from Ireland, through Eng. fand, Frn11ce, (;nmuny, to tile i11terior of Hnssia; from 'Bordeaux to the .frontier of 'rurkBy, u.nd in all the ititenncdiale parts: so that no map need be, nor ,actually i::;,. aucrnptccl without the efmncuts of these triangti.!atfous. The w~~ks wt1ich !have madcdn Switzcrlund are included in this series.
(Doc.~~s, 181.l-'1!!1 I'P· 12, 1:;, 14.) ·[Hussien. Su.r~eys of lll~.t.h~ countrie1< of Europe have been or, are beiug'tQade by

·(Jf :triu11gnlutio11~ to wit: Auo.tria, 1Hnssi::i,,Sweden,1 Oettrnark:, HanovP.r, Pr11ssi11, Swahia, Bohtmia and the St11l1~s of Ocrma11y g~nera-lly~ -ltaly I c~Jtp\r,~i«ni.l:'SIALly' ~wirurln.nd~ l''rance,.~Jngland, the BritishHpoSSesljions. iu; ltld~!!-nd the-.Fr.eucb ¢o!onr in Algiers; ·

th,~ ·!>Yfite:~

;Rep.. No .. 170.
"EurQpe is. covered with well-conn~cted s.eries of triangulation~fr9~ the south .of. $icily to ;the. p~lar circle; from Irelan~, ~hroqglt ~Dg4\P,d, ·France, .Germany, to.the·intenor of Russia; from Bordeaux to the frontier ·of Turkey,. ~nd ,in ~.II the. intermedi11te parts." . . . To the.qn~tion, "Whether 110 other mode exists by which a,ccurat.e sults can.be obtained :within le&s time than they can be furnished by a ttig,onometrical survey," tho answer is, No. There is no short method by which these results aro attainable. Usually, the experience of tho world is justly considerl?d when any great object is to1 be attempted or effected. Why sh.ould it be excluded from. ~he. category, in judging the merits of this magnificent work? .We have the combined testimony of nil the science of Europe in favor of making surveys by t1'.iangulatio11s, arid,. in fact, the positive . a::;sel'tion that it is the only proper ~ncthod. Why should we not adopt the con.clusions of nations which, to say the least, arc older in theso mutters than we ourselves are, rather than to resort to methods which arc a coutury behind the age we Ii ve in.? . .. . . [Swift, p. S?. "It might }le desirable that they" [i.e. the signals aml secret marks placed m th~·grotu\Q] "could be properly protected by a special In w, as th~t is lqe habit in Europe, where such woll-securml triangulations exist, and are still daily making from Sicily to La pony, and from Brost and Ireland to Turk~y and Petersburg." (1835-'36, vol. I, pugc 3S:i, Doc. 2.) · . To the question, whether t.he mode of making the survey of the coast by triangulation is better than any other, it may bo said to ~1e t/lo o,ril/J. tr~1ly correct method which can be pursued. It is the ouly method by whi.cb a. connP:i:ion in th.a.work can be preservccl. Of its accuracy the. proofs a,i;e continually before .tho observer., and an error need not bo extended b~yond a. single triangle. Tho three angles aro measured in every principal Jriangle of the work; u.nd, us this is all the mcasuremerit which tnkes place :.ifter the base is <letermiuod, it is obvious that the observer has his pro~fs of correctness contiuunlly at hund. There can be uo cooking of obsoryations, as is sometimes practised in astronou1icul determinations. An idea of the exceeding uccnrucy attainable in works of tho nature referrod to may be. formed by rcforriug to the accouut of the measurement ma1fo by tho French ustronomcrs of the arc of the mcridiuu botwoen D11nkirk and ,Cubreru, for the determinutio11 of the figure of the oarth, being 12 'degrees of latitude in extent.. A ftcr ll groat numlicr of triangles had. bpe11 ;ncnsured, and an e;x:tent of about 500 miles ·upon the meri<lia11 doterminqd,.. (between l\ldun and Pcrpignan,) abase of vcrificaNon, as it is denominatc<l, was moas11r1~d at Perpigunn. This verification consi.stcd in. mcasuri1i.sr wi.th tho gri:mto~i accnrnpy one of the i;;ides of a triangle in the series, wliich had been ·proviously <lctormiue<l by computation from the originul hn~.e. Tho difference between this computed :siu~ aud the aciuul meuS\ll'enumt was less tha1i 2 feet. [Swift; p. 31.

re-

No·rE (20.)
7. When I could join my ~ssistants upon t.hc \leach, in the b~ginning of J llly, thoµgh. by: uo means m a good state of health, and after hQ. ving

visited the projected lines, ,tho ditliculties they pre~onted decidpd mo to L~y fO'lay otf n:~tt~igh~)inc \i.pon the;ontwnrd ~anc,y.,~horo o( t~o .Qccnn·:bolweeu ·the!.a~a a~1d.:the .saJ~d ,hills, wbi<rh 1lPP.eared tQ .pre~µt, li\ ·. ~1e~rl1

38

llep. ·No. 110.

straight line; little different. from pnralli:il to the shore·. This succeeded f.:O well;: that a lihe was laid out i=:tarting from a sand hill of moderate eleva1ioil,' somewhat southeast of the light-house, and exteudin~ ·over eight miles upon the sandy beach, only iu a few instauccs edging the sand ·knolls, and some others going between the high an<l fow water mnrk on the seaside; the lowering of the first as much as needed. it was eai;;y tO' accomplish; and the second apparent difficulty was equally easily overcome by so regulating the work, as to meet these places during low tide. 8. This line was then laid out accurately straight by means of a transi·t ·instrument; and measured,, preliminary, by the same chain of 20 metres which had been used in 1817, for the preliminary measurement of the bas1J line in· English Neighborhood, and which serves now for the detail plane. table survey of the south side of Long Island. At every 400 metres a. peg was driven into the ground, bearing the mark of the distance; theflc precauti()ns are always required as a great means of security against mistakes, by the omission that might happen of inscribing a.meusnring bar·box ill the registers, as thereby constaut verifications are presented. 9. During the months of August, September, and October, this line was then measured in forty-five days, of which, twenty-seven in A ngust, fif~ teen in September, and three in October; the other part of that time being taken up either by interruption from unfavorabJe weather, or such days as: were necessarily employed for the moving of our encampment along the "line; for which it was always necessary to employ all the helps otherwise · engaged at the manual part of the base meai111rement, there being never · nny doublets of men engaged in our work; and I must add, near the end 'of it, also, my own increased state of sickness was unfavorable. ·10. At every 400 metres, as determined by the accurate measurement, and at every 1,000 metres, strong pegs were driven in tho gronnd, marked bY their disitance from the west end; and every 2,000 metres was beside~ furnished with one of the stoneware cones that are always m:ed at the station points; these are intended ns fixed points, from which the detail points of the so11ndings in the sea that they border are to be determined. 11. Both ends of the base line thus resling upon two ~and knolls that will, by their position, in all appearance, always be secure from the seai have been marked by two monuments, each consisting of a Newark red sandstone, about four feet high, hewn square for about eighteen inehe~ from the top, with an even top of one foot square, and a rouud hole in · the centre; under the square cut part a frame was fixed in, consisting of four pieces of hard wood scantling, embracing it closely by grooves m:i.do expressly in the stone; the lower part being left rough. The!'e stones w~r·.1 · sunk entirely even with the sand, together with their frames, which, by their extending about twenty inches on each side furlhel' iu the ground~ will make them stand more solitl, and maiutaiu their perpendicnlar po .. sh ion. 12. The distance between the monuments will exceed 14,050 metres, or S,.i1A miles ; the accurate number will result from the calculations that ! Bhail m.ake next winter upon the reductions needed for. 1st. The varied slate .of the temperature. · 2il. The elevations and depressions toot the localities of the ground ,ol;>liged to make in many places. , · 3d. The rcdnction of the line actually measured npon the sho.re sand, tc· rhat between the monuments, for which all the data have been determiuod

upon \he place. (Doc. 2, vol. 1, p. 377, 1834-'3S.)

Rep. ·No. t 70~

37'.

"No. material alterntion·will be found in Gene1al Roy's accomit~ di~· measurement on Hounslo~ hen.th, if we except a. correction of abq~t eight~ inches in the reduction of the base, which was' 27>494.7 feet, instead of. 27,401.01. For this reason all the sides of the principal triangles to ~he. 14th, aud tho 'distances depending on them in the acc9uut of .the operation. in .1787, 1788, are reduced in·the proportion 27,404.7 to 27,404..2; the latter being the Olean of the two measurements." (p. 138.)-[Priface to Mudgtla Trigon..ometrical Survey, vol .. l, p. 7. .. Besides, in all cases where the triangulation is to serve for geographical pm:poses, it may. most genel'ally be expected that several base lines. will .be men.sured in the' course of the work. . [Hassler's Coast Survey, ·P· 166. " It is 11e9essri.ry fhat the stations of a work of the nature of the .coast survey shall be preserved for future tin.1cs and uses, in any otl,er.surveys, to which the determinations made by it will serve as fundamental units." (1834-'5, vol. 1, Doc. 2, p; 366, sec. 14.) [Hassler~s Rep.
NoTP. (20 bis.)
OrFICE CoAsT Suxvi:v, February 1, 1843. 'Sin. : I ~nd that the distance between the eastern extremity of the. meas-:

ttrcd line and the monument, which is in the direction of Ruland's, is 162.02 metres. · · ' · ' · 'I1he measured line lms been encroached upon in one place by the tide; but the line between the monuments is considered perfectly safe from such encroachments. ' ' . The preservation of the monuments is intrusted to the light-house ·keep~ er at Fire Island, who corresponds occasioually with the superintendent ·. .At the lust advices, the monuments were secure. No additional local surveys have been made, to show tho encroachments of the tide upon ·th& measured line. · Ve1·y respectfully, your obedient servant,

GlWRGE S. BLAKE.
Hon. Mr. AvcatGG. HousE 01· HEPRESENTATIVES U. S.,

herewith retumc~, showing the high·watcr mark and tile low-water mnrlt. of Fire Island, npon which the base line was measured; nlso, the positicm of the measured base line, as thereon ·shown, and the connexion of its eastern end with the mtmumcnt.. · Nothing more is desired than the lines above described; and, for the purpose of expedition, a copy drawn with n peu, upon tracing paper laid over the mup, will answer the purpose, if yon find it most coilvenient. I wish "lso to have a scale attached to thi~, showing nny given distaucl' ; also, to atato the year to which this map refers, as to the condition of the beach. Also, a sketch of the. bench from the wes.tern end of the island to the eastern eud of the base, showing its prosont condition with reference to tl1e· measured base, and to its condition. at the time the, base was n1easU:red

. Pehrttary 6, 1843. Sm : I will be. obliged to yon to furnish me with 11 copy of the draught.

38

Reii.

No.

170.'

Shotild its prescrit condition not be known, the latest accounts n.ro·desired, ariq:a ·statement of the year to which the sketch refers. These sketches are· not desire_d to 'be finished drawings, but merely outlines Sttfficiently curate to be measured so as to give a general idea of the-subject, and 'such as may be famished: in a few hours. . . · Also,· a draught of the connexion between. the eastern end of the measured ba8e .and the monument at the eastern end of the actual base, giving simply the lines, showing which are measured and which are calculated" to be on .(I. large scale, with a scale attached to it 1 also wish you to state the length of your measurod" baae, the distance from the eastern end of the mea~urcd .base·to the monument ·on the sand knoll; the height of the monument above the measured base, and the distal)ce between the said monument and the monume11t at the western ex- · tremity of the measured base. · I also desire to know whethei: the length of the actual l.inse;or, in otbe1· words, the distance between the western end of the measured base and the monument on the sand hill (in tbc direction of Ruland's) near the cast end of the measured base, was measured or calculated, aud whether the act. ual· base .admits of actual measurement . .Also, whether the eastern end of tile measured base has bi;:cn positively fixed by .a permanent monument.; and whether the pos~tii:m is now covered at ordiuary high tide, and above the water at low tide, or permanently, c9ver.e<l at low water, in consequence of the washing a way of th~ sand; and 'if so, how deep. . Jn case the eastern termination of the measured base has not been per~ mp.pe.11.tly mar~ed by a monument, and it shpul<l be desired at any fuNrc i~w.~ to rerneasure the base, how would that point bt:: ascertain~d-? If br ta~ing angles to any distant station, iu what lllll.Uller has that dist~nt statiou poj~1t. been permanently fixed? . . Would it be possible in the present state of the beach to rc~ucasure the measured base? . That.the object of the above may uot be misunderstood, it is proper to re1nark that no minute details are desired, but me.rely a general des.crip~ tion, such as may be prepared and ready for me by to-morrow morning. I have received from different sources very difforent information respecting the" above poillfS. I thereforo write to you for information, since r u11dersta11d that yon correspond with. the keeper of the light~housc, who bas the base under his charge, and since the othe1· poinlj mnst of nece~sity be well known to you. · Your obedient servant, JOHN B. A YCRIGG. F. R. HAssLEn, Esq., . .~~uperintenrieut Coast Survey.

ac-

The following· letter was received in answer to that of the 6th instant, after the report was presented. lt is !Jere insertccJ, simply noiing, that the changeable nature of Fire Island is very strongly described ; that the difforence of" te:."9 than a tenth of an inclt in a distance of Bi miles," whicb "is certainly not worth a cavil," is not understood to signify difference between two separate meaaurements, but either nn error in the numerical calculation, or in lbc theory of reduction from the same mea.m1·emcnt;

a

ReP.~

No. 170.

39

and,. folallY., that

there havt' been no confidential communicatiQns' with Mr.· Has1>l~r, 1 b~t that the informati?n .was r?que.ste~ by the '"''rid~rs~gn~d'" as, one o'f the mem~rs of the comn11ttee of inves.~1gauon, and; con$equent·· . Jy' ·that the letter couta.ini11g this information 'oelongs to the:. HQuse. · ·

WASHXNGTON. C1TY, Febr.uary. 7, 1843. Srn : The direction of the tides being al ways from· east to .west, and · reverse, alternately, and the coast cif Long Island presenting to this. dirootic:in ai~sistance under a small angle, the effect of the tides upon the washing, therefore the alteration. it,9 south coast is only proportional to the· versed sine of this small n11gle. The effect of the currents occasio1;ed by the relative position of the coast of Long Island and of New Jersey, which arc met by the \~hole weight.of the North ·river~ occasion a recoil. of the movable sands at tha · omn·gs of' New. York bay, which occasion deposites on the Long Island shorn, which hllve often little consistency, and, of course, are at all times variable. ·· 'fhence arises, that (he south coast of the islnnd, till up to:the more elevated sand hills, is so variable that no distinct ltig/& or low water line ca~" exist which could he marked npon a map. The breadth of the line between the two, varies according to tho more or less declinity of the· sand·· bank, which lies between the sand Miii~ and the water, from 10 to so"ahd 40 feet about. But even this indication is only stating a mean, of what was the case at tho time when I measured tho base lino, and its great vari~: ation was proved by six or eight wrecks being yot-111 the length of the'bilse line when I measul'ed it, and two new ones hrought in by' the sea'dui'ing' the thne of our measurement. · ·· Temporary irruptions of storms ac.t of course here, like ot1 all shores,· uncertain extrnordittary results, which to enumerate wonld be endl.ess and \tseless. ' The base line lies in that part of Fire Island. beach, which, by· its, sit·: uation ·towards these currents, and their direction, appears the least liabla to -encroachment. The .nature of the hills show that; particularly the twci between-which the determined base line lies; upon whioh the triarigulatiou rests. The ·encroachment across the line measured upon the sandy beach has been trifling, and I suppose also only temporary, as happened. even once while I was actually engl\ged in the mensuremont, occasioning that I had to wait for the low tide to pass on in the di met line. Ou the western sidu the land is actually making so much, that the end of the Fire Islaud beach, which ended i·oundiug off towa1·ds Grassy beach, has now advanced westerly for half a mile, and tnrued into' the entrance · of; the .Groat South bay, so as lo forrn a commodious harbor, as you hava seen· hy th~ additional paper, which Lieutenant Blake 'handed to you, and which I must request you to return to this office. [It is now received;] ·From all this it is evident that no map wirh the requisite of yonr qµestion·, which could show the high and low water line, al llds locrllily, would be possible' that would fit a11y other month, perhaps week, or duy, than tho ·one in which it was made ; to make it for the instnnt, fol' inatcmt.rneo!U 011~'1 it can h~,. wo1~ld requirn to place sim~thaneotte ~bservers at every qnah('lr of a mile d1sta11co along the whole lme. Tho.t such a map would bi.t -of not the slightest 111.ility ~cannot hut strike you at once ; the: snnd· hills form' the invariablo unit, as :rur as any sea shore )nay ba considered so.· . . ' ..

of

.;~n. l~~s-,,wh(!n tbe coast survey was re&um~d, th~ distance$ were, 'Q(. cqµ}.~;. groµpded 11p9n· 1he ba,se me11Suredtl!t01olgh Engli~h N.eigli,borbpod,. in~~~i\Y- J~rsey,,i't,attil)g from.We,li~el n;iountaiµ :and H~r~o:w hiH, the _two.

· Wb.e11. upou ·Rularid'l!l aud Westhill's stntion, I observed by the shape whicb. I?ire .. Island .beach presented to me, parallel about to these two. ppiµt~"; thaH,wit~1out doubt, there must be a possibility to locate upon it a proper ba~e -line, -from which this distance would be determinable under the, best, .~ondilions for accuracy; those points furn'ishing wha~ is called "a mo.ul)tain bn!ie," that is, a distance upon eminences of about the same el~V)a\ion a,s,the mouutahis of that part of the country are, which is to be s1,1J¥.eycd; . . .~hese. circ;umstances made: that early in l834, I sent immediatelrthe wlwl.e app~u·atus for the measurement of the base, with nil the assisrantR, to -itbe we~t end of Fire ~slancl beach, with direction : to survey the beach m.e,Ji'1)inarily; invcstigat~, and project, whatever line they might think coij!Qibe. fouud· me11surable to. the best advantage, nnd pre po.re some me· chanical parts for the e.xecutiou of the base mcas11reme1lf, while I iu New· ark.-propur~d;rot some other parts. ~Y- a.&~is.tnnts had in their dHforont excmsions projected several Hues; which all, on examination, presented considerable <litficulties for an accu-· rate ex_ecution .of the measurement. , Therefore I took ut once a start across th,~; brach. from tho, northern shore, where they had encamped, to the sou.them shore,; meeting it at about 1he broadest part of the eandy beach~ betw~Qn the sand hills a.nd the sea, at near -t of the present base line, from the western end, in the meai;urcment's beginning of the base; there seeiuei iu.botl1.directio11s the !iea aJJ<l the sand hills running out, so: that I could place myst;'if jn a po1:1itjon wher~ ·it presented itself like a double row of parallel tree:>, in the middle of which I stood; I placed a stake, and sent for~ards #n: !).tisistant. to place another, at about hailiug distance, in the place wb~re l i;hould direct; thence we proceeded easterly in the same straigM.Hne till we met tlrn side of. a sand liill which tho line would have cut ioto,,ifconti,nuc<l ; this happeue<l a short distance be.fore tho hill called.: Ileqd andJiorn11·; ;here I to rued.off so muc!J as l thought was .ueeded: to av'qi4 all cutting,in 1be hills; tben giviug a direction backwards. the line was ~.take.d off westward, un!il it met a secure somewhat clernted pojnt fo:.the. begint1i.ng of the base. Such a point wa~ fo\\nd, very we!l, aud opportunely, situated, aud the most eligible point of it was selected;.,· A moQument was 110\v buried at that point, cousist(ug of a .Nav.rark red sand ,stoi:ie, cut square. at tbe top, and for about 20 inches downwards, presenting ~t the, upper purt, which was made level .with tho ground, & sqnMe .of 1.2 foche, &ide, .with n round l1ole in the cen.tre of 2 inches diam-· eter; at the.IQwei: end of the square cut part the four sides are cut in for· about 3 inches, to recei\'e a jointed frame of hard wood, o.f about scantling

~~

last deter.min.ed p.9itlts, to Buttermilk hill, by .men tis of an opf,!ration !-VhicJ1 I have mentioned. in anoiher place; that bnse had been measur~d prelimarily in. 1817 witli· a metre chain, constructed in my house at Newark, uru;ler. my,,dir~ci.ion. · 'l1Ji.9 1:mse ,line was not so convenient to measure, pnrticulnrly by lhe apparatus .J had J;>rovided, 'for obtaining the grea~est accuracy, 011 aceount of wat~ry, marsby.pa1·ts,!:which it had to pass. Thel'efore, I was all the time of 1833, observing .closely where l m1ght rneet with a better adapted lo'

.

~~:i;e, presenting horizontally 8. arms ~o,~bout ,18. iu~hes fr?m .th,e,.c;:o.r».~1:8·; The lower part, of 11bout the same length as the upper, is left rough, 191 give .the ston.e: an .ovcr\v~ight pn~let the above frii:me,/cn:. bct~~:~?,l~d~ty, and perpenp1c);llat1ty ,wtule the side arms pre~·~nt. its smklllg ,l:iy· tn~s supT port, assisted by the support ot' the frame thus-:·
('l'hero 11re 1.wo di11:raru11 .here.) .

From the centre of this hole the acrual measurem~nt started. ~xactly·. The Hue was now laid off exactly, wilh.a trcu1siU11strun1eat, f.Lfld.measur(ld preliminarily· with a.. cJmjn, placiug marl<s in the ground at 1 ~very. thousand metres, which . .gave, 9.f .course; a preliminary guide, and.~heck,. for any case of accident that might occur in the actual measurernei1t, a;.dircctiug stake was placed near these mar~s. . , .. . . .. . The apparatus with.which the .final m~asuren1e11t was mac,ie, is de~c,1.'ibed· in my po.pars upon various subjects co1inecteq with the survey o(the coast,. printed in the Transactions of the Philosophical Society of PhiladelphiQ,: and quoted iu .the review of these papers, more. c'specially f!;lvorably, by Chevalier Bessel, of K<>S~igsberg, the nstronomer, uow hplding the ,first. rank in Europe, (who since then remaiueil in constant correspondence with me,) in the Ai;Lronomical Journal of Mr. Sachumher, of 4ltonai a translation of which is found in the 1st voluru!!. of. printed documents upon the· coast surycy, page 66. . · · The double-focus -microscopes of my invention, the arrangement, and 11ccurute determination of the bars, and the wl)()le. apparatus, has been described in tho above papers, and belong again to, the final acconut w:biclt? is to be given, in due time, of the main triangulation, wben once included between two base liu~s; all previous stnlemcnls are out of place, bel;lausethey forestall a part of the system wliich should appear in one whole mas~ of the scientific exposition ,of the whole system of the work of the. coast$Urvcy, upon which ultimately .the work must depend. . ,. · · The journiil of tho base m1msurem~nt contains, in three folio volumes, the :statcment.,of every individuality tba~ are· proper to be recorded, the hour ;tincl minute at which every ba.r wus laid off, the tomperature of 8 thermometers ofoach laying of( of the bars, the indica\ion of each small elevation or· depression of the .bars laid off when not exactly horizontal, with their reduction, &c., &c. I may rem1uk that there were iu this base line far less reduction than iu any other known. At every 11000 metres of the so microscopically measured line, nu eartheni cone was dug deep it110 the sand, as a mark o.f accidental reference if Med·: cd, and for the detail survey. .. .. Thus was proceeded uniforn'lly until to tho crossing of tho line which· would pass from Ruland's hill, through the centre of nn earthen cone, pll\cod, Y.lpon the small. hit\ called llcad cm(/, Horn's, w.hich was marked and noticed, particularly iu the jourunl, out of precaution, in cnse not a sufficient length 1.-.0.ulcl mensnrcd to meet another more advnntageous point affording .the ;~rune ad\·antagc for the intersoctio11 of a line from Rulaucl, with an ad'." (faqtagcously placed hill. Snc9 a JlOint \Vas.found about l lO. boxes, that is 880 metres furthei: east. A monument, similar in all ~espe.cts to that plucod at the begiuuing of tho measurement, wa~placed iu the middle of that hill, and the measnring,con.t.iuued u~til to a certaiu point between high and low water, which. Wlli rnarkod by a peg, as well as several pf the prccet:ding near ends of the Jar.

be

··

Rep~

No.: 1110:

upon Ruland, and by inverting the telescope the line '".'as p,ro!Ongated ~o the intersection of this pralongation with that o.f. the last hox of the measurement, made by means of a ·brass bar of a beam compass; this determined the ·point R,- in the figure. · . To multiply the means of accnrale reduction to this monument,. last placed; l measured a separate base· from R to Z again .with the same micro· scopic apparatus that had served for the long measurement, and of such r. length and-in such a position as formed a favor"able triangle for this determination. An earthen stoneware cone was buried at Z, like at a trian·gulatiou station point. Thus a combination of triangles was formed between the monumerlt's place and the points A, B, R, and· Z, of which all the angles \vere measured, grounding upon different ·bases, and affording a variet.y of combitia.tlons, each giving a special determination of the actual ~ase .Jin" i~tend ed to be determined between W aud E, or west nnd cast end of the line thadorms the .base of the triangulation. In reverse again the dete1·minatio11 of the distance ER(-:--) l62.0224m., can: serv~ at any time to point out with the same cf1rtainty this point H, where the measurement with the metre boxes, with complement, lie~. whether it be dry or under water when it may be desired. . ·My operations at that point were of conrse ma<le at low water, wheu the point was accessible. . · · · . This point is given 13997m., 637052718 fron1 the beginning at W by the final-result of all reductions; in this the decimals after rho sd are evider1tly insensible. · The line between the two mon~ments, which forms t~e actnal base line, to be employed in the survey, was determined by n1y calculation= 14058.9862m; As.it was desirable, a second calculation of the whole was made of the reduction of the measurement by Captain Swift; and of the reduction to the eastern monument in somewhat a different form, by Mr. Dahlgren, licntellant of the navy, then an assii;tant in the work; the re!:111lt of which :was 14058.987Sm., both red need to the temperature of 32° Farcnheit, or so called, freezing point of temperature ; the difforeuce between the two results of 0.0016m., or less than a tentli of an inch in a distance of 8i miles, is cer· tainly not worth a cavil. · In point of the scientific standing and advantageons particulars ancl"posi· tio11 of this 1·esult, I am perfectly allowed. to claim preferel1ce over tbr.i gr~atest numbe~ of the base lines ~neasured for large snrv.eys, iis .wil.l ~t once strike by the diagrams of a vanety of such bases, which I will JO!ll here to bo compared with it. A verification ·of the result was obtained immediately the next yenr, by deducing from this base line that of the bast! in English Neighborhood, ::Xew Jersey, measured in 1817, the calculation being carried upon this old line measured only with the chain, though somewhat carefnlly, from tlvi new accurate base, coincided within the 'limits of the expansion of the iron, between the two different temperatures under which they \Vere mea!>nred. By two well.conditioned triangle~, the ba~e oetween the monuments upon the beach, is transferred to the distance between Ruland and 'Vest·

boxes, yet falling upQn the part abqve high wa.ter, as in, th~ ~gt.ire .4 nud B .... · · t ·. .i\:theod(!lite was then placed over the ceritre of tl)is m91,1.w1ent dire~ted

Rep. No. 1101·
hills; which form, \vh.at I called above, the mountain base of the tl'iangUJa .. tion ·. ' · The point upon West hills is 11ecured 'by a stone monu~ent, exactly similar to the two placed at both ends of the base line. That of Ruland's hill ~s nfa~ked ?Y a sfoneware cone, buried lfnder gronnd sufilcie,ntly to pre~~nt its bemg disturbed. , · · . . I may be allowed here to add : that it is even improper, that the particulars of the monutnentalmarks, be publicly discussed, and. ma<Je known., in any, other w'ay : but by Ote· journal;.in order not to a:waken the attention of miscMcvous persons 10 atternpt their destruction, as has been done with 3oine:ofthe marks o/1817. The proper way to m~ke the~e marks, is entirely under ground, and deep enough to be unattainable by any plough:· · The base momiments, you know, are given in chal·ge to a public (>'fficer of' the United States, who'm .besides I kl1ow as \veil dispqsed: · The proper measures have been, and are still, taking, to increaso the liills't.1pon whi~h they·stand, ilr the manner habitual in thnt part of the <'ountry to focre~se the lan<l, and preserve it. I have myself begun it at both ends:, at th1f tlrn~ when I measured the angles ·at tho base e11ds, to full success. (See addi· tio1i) . . These data to which I could still add more, if you should deairt, wilt however; l hope, be sufficient to convince yon that, the contradictory reports, which you state to have received, upon the subject of the main bs:se of the coast survey, measured upon Fire Island beach, are, what all contradictory 1·epo1·ts are, namely, unfrue; for truth is hut (Jne, and in m.ath· <imatics there· is no possibi,lity of cavil with its decision. · · : . I ha,·e only to re~ret : that you, in the situation of a· member of the · 8elect committee· of mvestigation upon the coast survey, (though your ap,· plication is not made iu thnt capacity, or with thnt uuthorizntion1)' have suffered you1·self to be misled by such reports, which· n)ay oblige me to make your and this letter public, which I think you might have a considerable interest to keep between us, by fairly tmd decidedly turn friendly· to the work, as you stated at first, but which you have so much attacked, and to let me alone; who certainly have done nothing that could in nny \Vay in the world be taken ill in me, neither in the work, nor aguinst you; unless you should think: tha;t I have 110 right of self-defence, which belongs/by natm~l right to all, eve11 the dumb creatiou, o.nd I therefore shall not give up, having .so plenty means for it on· hand. Within twa days, I hope to get your decision upon this point, bcc.rnse r am not sure of the use you mea.n to make of the iriformation, which I herewith give to yon, in the fullest· cnndor, I am decidedly obliged to act, ttncl· so to net, thnt neither this country l10l' Europe can remain in doubt upon the subject of your questions; you cannot btlt see, that the- subject yoi.Patto.ck, (namely, the accnrncy of the ba:se line,) helongs to the scientific world, which is hot Jimited by the boundary of the Ullitcd States, e~eu as ~t>ttled by the Inst treaty; thut mathematic~ furnishes means to ascc1·tain truth, which even politics canMt, (for even the decisioil of large assemblies by plurality of votes; has been calculnted hy mathemuticiaus-sce "Condouct" Probabilite' des decisionc par la ph1ralit6 des \'o'ix.) Besides, please ·to observe, that' eV'ery stroke you may think to do at tlie·coast survey, by raising doubts upon its accnracy, and reviling it, niay nlso 'a stroka at sotne vessel, bearing, perh11.ps, a friend 'Or relation of

no

.

'

yours,whose groans· will cry vengeance· upon you, for having prevented, or discredited, the execution of au accurate tourvey of the coast, upo11 which ·YPU, may be long in s~arch. of his corpse. · With best wishes, your obedient servant 1

F. R. IL-1.SSLER.

Hpn .. Jon:N B. AvcnrcH;, :Member of Congress,,
ADDITION,

You.will :tjnd, herewith,, a sketch of the base line ~nd the beach, upon tracipg. Pa'Per, .as you desire; it will exhibit what you. seem to wish, namely, th~ mam:1.er in which the triangulation baso is connected with the actual m~asurement \:l,loug the sand hills, and with the tnain triangles.. It canqot escape .any man, understanding the subject, atJ<l having any practi<~~, to see. ·oy:the inspection of the figure: that this reduction was emineri~ly fi.l.vo.rable.; both by the nature of the locality, and by the manner in which i.t was made, and the verifications which it affords; besi4~s the details of,t!ie results given so eminently prove. ·To afford a compa1·i~on, I caused the diugrams of several of the most important base inea:mrements, and their reduction, and connexion with the triangulation, to be copied upon a separate paper, by which you will see, for insrauce, that the two principal bases of the French BLtrvey nre broken· !in~s, with very obtuso angles, and to reduce them to the monuments, needed superstructures of small triangles at both extremities. The Engiish bases I suppoi;e you k.now. The bases of Prussia, Russia; and India, were of very small si:z:e, and thence needed to go, thr.oui"h a rmmbcr of smaller triangles before they coµld determine tiny actua triangle side, oAc as much as :fiva triangles. W~ile in the coast survey the very first triangle, at the ba::ie to Rulaud's, i.s- immediately available for large distances; a:ml the second present~ a. liu~ upon two inc;iependeut eminences which furnish a sufficiently large line, to serve as a base line over the sound. The ele\·ation of tho monuments over ~he sandy beach upon wbicli the measurement is made, has nothing to do with the borizo1:1tul determination which is the only one nee4ed, it is therefore not determined, as it is not iut(lnded to make a railroad there to be graded by it. The a/cf:/ cites of the .base lino of the coast survey 1 must ta1ce the liberty to. request you. to return to me, as they a.re communicated with.out any proper authorization, in confidence; and their spreading in the public in. this· form, would not be appropriated to the security of the work by copying, &c., and they woul<l be liable to be abnscd, for the destruction of the n101;mrnents, by indicating their locality, &c., as stated before from experjence, wbwh is a drt!nger lo be decidedly avoided. The scale of: the base line sketch is 1:1ufficiently erident, from the mnrks of the every thousand metres upon the rneasm:ed line ; the logarithm of the base in metres is= 4.1479540293354.77. , Constant logarithms for reduction of the metres : in ynrds 0.0389834 · in miles 6. 793539Z The bases for the Ea~t India surveys are· only measured. with chains of the form of. Ramsden's; no i:;pecial detailed account is given of their measurement. Th~ situation of my base line measured in Switzerland, to.wards the triangulation, can be seen in a map of the country which I have here.

= =

J:.'. R.

llASSI~ER.

Rep. No. · l7.0.
NoTE (n::)

30. Question. What is the present condition .tlio place of ·the original base line ? . .. Answer. !'have not been· there since 1836~ Then tho oeach was considerably washed,- but the points were undisturbed. Now, I understand, lhe beach is changed, and the base in danger; but the elements of it will be prese1·ved by .the m<>tmtaiu base, inlaud from tho original baso., . · [ Perguson, p. ·1G. The dunes ur sand hills which extend along the coast of Hollaiid, from Dunkirk, nearly wi1hont intermption, to the Helder, arc formed entirely by the action of the wind blowing up the sand of the sea shore; they arn a source of good and evil to the conn try; they servo as a natural barrier to keep out the ocean; a benefit which, hnt for the ingenuity: a1id,contrivanoe of man, would be more than couuterbalanced by the injury done by their progress inland.· Ou the sea shore they are mern loose heaps, driven about by every blast, like snow-wreaths on the Alps; nnd, wore they uot. restrafocd, would move onward. year by year, and inundate the country. In pa$s~ ing over 11. desert of this kind at Schcvouing, on t\ \vindy day, the atmos..: phere appears dim with the particles of sand blown like smoke througluhe'
~~

of

.

'

The height of the dnncs depends on the fineness of the sand, M the wfod has ()f course the most power in' transporting tho minuter particles. Campcndown, memoro.ble i11 the naval annuls4of Britain, is one of the~ loftiest on the whole coast, for this reason. To check the dispersion of tho san<l, nnd put a stop to this evil, the dunes nre sowed l'cg11larly every year with plants congenial to it-, for ·even sand has a vegetation peculiar to itself, which may be called luxuria'nt; but a species of reed grass, which grows uear the sea, (orundo nreno.ria,) is principally employed, and to great advantage.-Mw·ray's Handbook/or Trtsvellers mi the Co11ti11enl 1 p. '13. ligltt-liouse
eslab/i.~lmie11l,

l 84.2.

That some of our light·honses sho11ld llA undermined- by the encroachment of the sea, and have to bo taken down anu rt>moved further back, is not strange; ii is a circumstuuce thoy will ul wnys be lia·ble to. It is no fault of those who selected tho sites or bnilt the light·bonses. I have had au opportunity of observing tho uucronchment o~f the soa 011 our whole coast for thirty year~, visiting every light-house in tho United States onco eve1·y year. fo1· sixteen years. Capes, with the ocoau on one side, and the rapid current of some river on the other, as Cape Henlopen and Cape Henry, are the most liable to wash a way; bnt yonr light-houses must be located at those capes, and mnst not be set too for· back from tho shore· The shore continuing to recode for a series of yeurs will oblige you to rcmoye some of your light-houses further back. '!'his cannot_ be A.voided~ There are many places, particularly in bays, where light-houses have been built, at which a work might have been constructed at the time to prevent the aites from washing away; bnt ~here were no funds for it, the appropriation being barely sufficient to build the light-honse and keeper's dwelling. ·

Bep . .No .. 170.
NOTE (22.)

33. Ques\ion. What is the signification of the words "primary triangn· latiOI) ?" , Answer. TI1e}· signify the main series of triangles on which any work to he surveyed is based, extending ns far as possil.ile ihronghoutthe work. [Blunt,·p. 24. 1. The main or primary triangulation, upol'l which all the work depends, is mo.de up of triangles, having sides of from .10 to 50 miles in ex .. tent. The angles in these t1iangles are all measured by Mr. Hassl~r. . , [Swift, p. 35. The principle upml which the survey of the coast is condncted is, essen.tially, that.which is known as the trigonometric methoc.l. Dy the relations which s.ubsist between the sides and augles of n triangle, w.c are cnal.>led, from certain known data, previously determined by actual measurement, to compute certain o.ther parts which ai:e unknown. For example: in a given triangle, by mea.Suring. one of the sides and the angles, the two remaiJ1ing sides can be determined by computation. These computed sides then serve as ba~cs for other triangles, and subsequently, by measuring the nngles·alone in the triangles thus formed, the work is extended ad libitum. This is called a triangulation, and may he made upon any part of the earth's surface upou which a line of a given eJCteut can be meusured. [ Sit·ift. p. 33. 5 · .Question. ls there. any essential difference in the· scientific principles of the primary and the secondarr triangulation ; and if so, what? Answer. The primary requires.an instrument of great power, and of .nicer graduation ; there is no other difference. There is no difference in the mathematical elements. [ Ptn~uJon, p. 14.
NOTE (23.)

It is necessary to ascertain the true position of the district or country

triangulated upon the ear'.h's surface-that is t0 say, its latitude and its longitude. The first of these is indepcnclent, it being simply its distance from the equator; while the si:co11d is uot iudopenclent, but refers to the. position· of .1<omP. other point on the earth's surface, and under nnother , meridian. This latter place, or meridian~ may be assumed at will i and
t.he question then to be determined .is simply the c.I itfercncc in time. betwecu the two places of observation; aud thir:i, being converted into degrecs,constitutes the longitulle,or rather the difference of longitude bctwee11

. t\V Q .pl11ccs. F'.or these detuminations, observations 11r1on the ht""avenly bodies mn11t be rusorted to. ft is not 11eceinmry, liowe11;cr, that cdn8tial olJservations ::;hould be maclo at every point cl1~tE:rrnin~<l by the tria11g11lntion; on tho contrary, a few welt-determined positio11.~, u:.;certaltled by u long s~ries of ob.. servatiom1, often repeatutl, arc s11f1;cie11t, thl! eot1n(1Xi{·tl betw.een the same ·beiog <foterrnincd by the triang11l111io11; lumce thn mrvey of the coast,. as now. conducted, is made by cmnbined ur mixed geodetic nn'<l astronomical ,or.~~rvati9i:is. , [Swift 1 p .. 33. It\ ·the .triangnla.tion the t WO kinds ~1b~1·v:\tions, o.slronomical and geo· dctir.al, are tli.rconnerlerl, each operation is srporale, aud they nre only ·compared to dr.tw conclusio11s 11p:>11 ouc another, f.ir a new, different n:.

or

llep: ..Ko ... 170.
sult, requireq. ~o place t~1e survey in .geQ.eral iu its proper place ?ron Ct\rth.; therefore the, astronom1cal parts ani only made at a few properly selected places, and \vith general views for tho work, not for Mtails, like in. the other case, so as I have stated in my answer to question 5, article 3, of my report of L>ecerqber 2d, 1841. . [Hassler, p. 53. To 10, U, 12, 13, add: These stations were not exclusively astronomical :;tations; the astron'omical obs.ervations were intended more for preliminary' dettinninations at the beginning, to guide the work, and to take ndvautage of tho presence of the assistants, who were all present, to intr9duce them and to exercise them in this kind of observations. The. main aim of these stations was the determination of main triangulation points. To 12 ud(I: There also a solar eclipse was obson·ed. . . To 14 add: Upon the station of Weasel mountain all the means ro·r.o.sfronornical dcterm.inations and azimuths were united, and a regular system of these observations executed, with ils appropriated combination~, upon peculiar methods, which I made and prescribed, and which succeeded lo satisfaction. The isolat.cd observations of the preceding· stations were of course reduce<;I to this by wny of comparison. [Hassler, p. 49. 91. Quci.tion. Of liow many points in the United States huve the la\itude :iud longitude been ascertained and verified in the course of the survey ? Answer. Tho culculation of the triangles in my work gives, in nltimat.e result, the.latituclo and longitude of each point of the triaugle, primal')' and secondary, according to my special form of the work. [Hassler, p. 10. Qnestion 5. "'l'he astronomical ohservations made for the determination of latitudu and longitude." . ' . Upon this question,it'mnst be at first observed that the ultimate clause of the renewed coast survoy law of 1832 has cut off t.ho most favorable means by the phrase-" provided, that uothing iu this act, or the a~t hereby revived, shall be construed to authorize the construction o.r maiutena1ice of a permanent nstrono.mical ob~crvatory." This proviso forms an unfortunut~ .limitation of the work. The disadvantages therefrom arising for the acceleration and, easing o( the accuracy, by tho determination of everstanding points of reference for the whole work, is too evident for meu ucquaintc.d with its scie11tific requisitos to 11ee<l b9ing treated here. , That tho .very object prohibited by this clause must unavoidably, however, once be established iu this cciuntr}', is eusily see11, as it is one of the requisite tools for li n11tiou lmving a uttvy; iC <louo early enough to fot·tlie coast survey enjoy the be.ncfit of it. tlw oxpem;o woulcl bo comparatively trifling, and, immediately. recovered hy the auvautagcs arisiug frnr~~ it in this nall'on.al worlc of tho survey. . . Circumstances hnvc uot y~t allowed lll supply this absaucc folly, ne>r is it the time, as yet, nor appr,opriato, uor possible in the state of tho work within the present limits of ii, to do more than what lw.s beo11 done, kiamcly, the following: .. . · · 1st. Iu 1833 u11d 183·1, the first yen rs* of the new opC'l'n.tions in tho coast. survey,. o.bsen·<\tious for, latitude with the snu, an cl with stars, were made upon every statior1 of the main triaugulurion; with an astronomical rt:peatiug circl91 ~>f 1B i1l'cl\es'. diameter, .nncl wiih 10-inch reflecting circ\c!I~ upou my O)Vi:t pl~n uf.coi~s'truction. \vhicb is SUyh as ~o compcnsato all the error~ rdlccti'r.lg ini.11:ufii~11ts rnny ti~ s1lbje·c~ ~o. .At severnl of these statious,'.~so, <1zimuths were· o'bs'erverl wi!h'the stin·. · · ·
· N. B. The litW :f~11.i1.
··

2d. A ,special station was made in 1838 upon Weasel mountain, near Paterson, N. J.,for lati.tudes and azimuths; and a solar eclipse, occurring Just that time; gave occasion for an observation of longitude at the same

place·."· ·
·

at

·

·

.

3Cl. 'Every solar eclipse that has oc(}urred during the time the work has as yet lasted, has been observed at some one of the survey stations. · 'It is well known that all thos~ results are to bet united,in dLte time, with th~se of future times, into one. general result, by means of the primnry triangulation ; '~bile the results obtained hitherto, being for the immediate use of the geographical 'vorks of the survey only, must be preserved withii~ it until this ·union into a regular system is accomplished. It would be highly improper to give tbem to the public earlier, as well uccor<liug to good prin· ciples of science, required in the work, ns in obedience to a positive, and very 'proper prohibition, ·stiptl.lated by G0verument iy.· my Ol'iginal contract of 1816, confirmed iu 1832. · The results of the coast survey constitute a property of the nation nt lar!?e, whieli it acquires by the labor and expense bestowed upon the work; for which co1npe11satio11 will, iu proper time, be obtained by the autheuli<: pu6lication the results. All interfereuce of private publications aro dfreetly unjust, and derogato1:1J lo tile lauifully 1icquired propert,y of thi:~ · natio1i, and the ultimate pmper utility of the work. The garbled pub. lications which wonld be occasioned by partial communications would in~ terfere·with very unjustly, if not destroy entirely, the udvai1tages'of the future ·authentic publication of the work in its appropriate connexion, turn~ ing the public espcnse i11to profit for the private pockets of single indivi;l. ·nals, having no exclllsive claims to its benefit; and the public wonld be 'deluded by being presented with results falsely set up n's authentic. It ie self-evident thnt none but the maps published by "utlwrity, as resnlts o.f ·such a work, either deserve or will e\·er obtain, the confidence which is an ·indispensable requisite in the estimation of the public. The Government that undertakes such a work takes by that net the engagement towards the public to provide sur,h maps as shall deserve full and exclusive confidence;. therefore, also, it 1rmst di.~countmance all that might have nuy tendency tv occasion lJ.oubts. These cotisi<lerations were made by nil the llovcrnment~ of Europe which have executed such works. They have followed, in full, all the principles here exposed. It is a very essential co11sideration for the public security, aimed at by the work, to prevent all possihle abm;e. · . [Hassler, Doc. 28, p. 5, 1841-1 22. The indispensable observations of latitude are of conrse to be referred to 1he permanent observatory of the country, if such a one exists; if not, they also become nor.cssary at such stations more particularly as are made for the series of latitude. [Hassler' a Coast Su.rve.y, 1818, p. 179.

of

Non: (24.)
For the main triang11lation, those stations hase been occupied by mo which bind up the station points of the wo'rks of 1833 and 1834, and nnite the secondary triangulation of the eastern side. of Ldng Island and Rhodo Island ot1 the east, and of the Jerseys, below tlie bay of N(!w York, on the aonthwest, with proper extensions. [ HaS1ler, 1837-'38, Doc. 14, p. 2, vol. 2.

tN· B, Art &o bo.

Rep. No: 170.

49

Diagram of triangulation for the n1rvcy of coast in 1817 and 1833, and secondary triaugulntion 1833 ancl 1834. ( 1834, Doc. 2,p. 381.) To 40, 41, and 42, add: The· mnin triangulation determining large distances \Vith greater accuracy than the seconclnry triangulation, it: serves as element and groundwork for the latter.· [Hasslet1p;·6l. 41. Question. Who conducts the main tri:ingulatiou ? Answer. I rnys_elf, accol'<ljug to positive 8'tipulation. [llassler,p. 7. · Though the m:ithemntical theory of such works is fully treated nnd well known, their pructicul upplicntiou is left completely to the practical man; and the success micl accura0.y depend iu a great measure on the organization and different details of :wrangemeut which such a work requires. [ llasstn" a Coast Surv·cy, p. -16 6.
1

r-;OTE

(25.)

A tri;ingulntio11 nw y bL' complf·te in itself, and. when the necessary corroctions have been made for 1he figure of tlic carlh,'thc actual distance:between two poiuts ca11 be accnrntcly d~termitwd. · [SwifllP· :rn. 60. Qnestion. \Ylmt difforeuce is there in the nmthcmatical elements of primary and of seeo11dary triangle~ :· Answer. Tile larger triangles require more attention' to the·figure of the earth and to the rnntlwmutical (·lcments arising from it. [ llasslc1·, p. S. "If therefore in the ~tute of the country uud the nature of the demand upon 1,ho \vork~ it· canuot begin by the determination of degrees of the earth's surface~ 11po11 which :ill works of that natmo are now habitually grounded, the work \\·oult.l, !10we\'cr, he po~iti\·ely ~hamcd out of the l.\nnals of the science ~ud of sn('h works, unless its results would be used in future proper time, uccorJi113 to :wy fntmc desire or exigency, to contribute their proper sharo to the deterllliuation of the figure of the earth' fo this country. This \'Pr}' last result will form one of the princi1)al means for its ultimate proof an1l credit for accuracy." [Ha.~slc1"s Repm·I, Doc, 28, p. M, Jcm., S 1842. To 55, 156: It is \'Cr~· natural thnt in this, like in every other subject of science, or kuowledgc·, the acqnirc111culs uud improvements uro gradual; they ·develope themselves ns tlie occnsion for them is given, and with n considerable and proportional cousurnmatio11 of time. So mncb so, thut even iu Europe this ):>ranch of science is not so much spread, us it is pretended, to be nlrendy in tliis country, where it has never yet lieeu employed at nil; for the detached small smveys, made so abundantly, do uot come at all- in comparison, nor under the principles of science, which is absolutely reqnirecl for such an exteusivc work us the coast sun·cy, especially in the form and in the locality of the en:rrh i11 which it lies. llussler, p. 52. 16. Q11t~stio11. You h:lvc exhibited to the rommittee nllstracts of the whole work on the coast, from Point Judith to Capo May; whnt objection is there to tho publication of thoso abstracts? Answer. Tho first objection is, that no bnse of nHif\cutiqu hns yet beeu measured; the second is, thnt we ore uncertain ns to the diiforence iu nuy meridian in this country nrHl nnr in Europe, to I\ minute nnd a half in longitude; and the thii·d is, th11t we have not yet determined the ellipticity of the enrth. (See no le 2 :3.) [Ferguson, p. 15.

50

Rep. No. 170.
NOTE (26.)

. The oblateness of the earth at the poles is however a fact so well established by mor,e extensive measurements, that we must suppose either that some error has been committed in the observations-a thing, however, not probable-or else, what is more probable, that, by inequality in the density of the strata producing a local attraction, the plumb line of the sector has suffered a deflection at some of the stl\tions. [Encyc. Brit., vol. l, p. 143.

Non (27.)
76. Questif)n, What is the object of the second base line? Answer. The verification of the whole work, which is in the system of all such works. , 77. Question. If the object be to verify the survey, and suppose it does not agree, what is the consequence? [ Tlassler, p. 9. Answer. That the error, if any, is to be investigated. 70. Question. What is the object of ~he proposed second base line? Answer. 'fo verify the work. [li'erguson,p. 19.
NOTE (28.)
9 l. Quest inn. What is a secondary triangulation ? Answer .. It is a series commenced within the primary triangles, extending in whole or in part through the same, and dependent on tho primary
fltlrit~S.

3:;, Question. Is it possible for a series of secondary triangles to exist where there are no primacy ones? ' Answer. No. [Bl1mt,p. 24. l. The main or primary triangulation, upon which all the work depends, is made up of triangles, having sides of from 10 to 50 miles in cxte11t. The angles in these triangles are all measured by Mr. Hassler. 2. Whhin lhese main triangles, smaller triangles are formed; this coulititutes the .~eco11dary triangulation; the sides of these vary in length. from 2 to 16 miles. [Swift, p. 35.

Non: (29.)
The survey canvot be carried into its details until such a portion of the above work shall be cxecnted and actually calculated, as will· serve to occupy two or 1l1rcc detail surveyors in a certain district. The san1e is to be observed with respect to the nautical survey, which is to ex1cuu from the coast as far as a11y object important to 11avigation may occur. It will be most proper to use in these parts of the work well111fornied olllcers, brought up at the military :icaJemy, and naval officers.

[ /Jassle1·' s C ..~:. paKe 17. \VhPn I liacJ ex·!cutcJ the station at M onnt Carmel, the extremo enstem 01w, 10 wliicl1 I had iHten<led to extend my observations that year, I cont:1der1~d ruyi;elf autlwriz~d to form two par1ics to carry on the scconJary rri1u1g11lu1i1111 witlii11 the limits of the co1111try that my main triangulation.emliruced, ais the tri.mglcs could all be sufficiently determined to allow the vcr· jficat;uu:i required iu future. Keeping, therefore, only two of my assistanL<J

.Rep.

No. 170.

51

(Captain Swift and Lieutenant Bel\) with me, Mr. Ferguson was directed with ·the assistance of a. secondant to fill up, with secondary triangles, all the p~rts included between the main northern triangle points and Long Island 1otmd ; and Mr. Blunt ~with another secondant was directed iri a simi.lo.r manner, for all that related to both shores of Long Island; both equally .proceeding from the eastern extremity of our work toward~ New Y.ork. (Doc. No. :z, 1834-'351 paKe 369.) [ Has1/er.

No·n (30.)
" Captain Swift has extended the triangulation," &c., "so far eastwardly triaugulation would allow..'' . , "Mr. Ferguson has made the secondary hfangulation, which is included in my main triangulation of 1817," &c. (1835-'36, vol. 1, Doc. 2,p. 389, snme page.)
a11 the main
NOTE

(31.)

" All the secondary triangulation and topographical parties" are engaf?ed "at filling up the details within the maiu triangulation of former years." (1836-'3i, vol. I, Doc. 13,p. 41.) [Hassl~r.

Non ( 32.)
38. Question. When you commenced, was not the secondary triangulation intended to be, as the name imports, secondary to nud within a prioiary triangulation ? Answer. Yes. 39. Qu,,stiou. Is it so uow ? Answer. East of New Haven I ha vc extended a main trian~ulation to Newport, and filled up the sanie with a seconda1y series or ,triangles.

[Blunt,p. 24. 14. ~ucstion. Did you use the main triaugulution us the basis of your
work (the secondary triangulation) when you commenced? / A11swer; Yes. 15. Question. Do you not in fa.ct proceed in the secondary triangulation nt present in the same manner as in the primary? Answer. The only differcnct1 is the difference of the instrnments. [Ferguson, p. 14. 42. Question. Why is not the maiu tl'iang11lati(}l1 carried as far east\vard as the secondary ? Aus wer. llccause it was not needed. 43. Qucstiuu. When will it be ueeded? Answer. So soon as the junction is made with the base line ou the
Ch~sapeakc.

44. Question. \Vhcu that junction is made, do you propose to suspe11d the work south, und go back cast~ or to have two parties? Answer. When the junction is nrndc, whilu llw secondary triangulation goes on south, I shall contiunc llrn pl'innrry triangulation east. 45. Question. Cannot the main triangulation be Cal'ried on except under yonr immediate pcrsoual supervision ? . Answer. Not in th~ present stato of things. 46. Question, Why not ?

Rep. No. 170 .
.Answer. Because there is no holly to do it, and; the circumstances are contrary. . . 47. Question. Is there nobody else attached to the snrvey who ·can dQ it? · ··Answer. Not riow. [l!as.,ler p. 7. . "TQe works of the preceding years had filled up with main an<.1 secondary triangulation, and the topographical as wel~ as hydrographical detail, most part of the district from the Jersey shore of the Raritan and New York bay, till towards the east end of Long island, the sound and opposite isJands, the shore of the main land of New York, Connecticut, till Black point," &c.-IS39-'40, Doc. 20, p. 2. "Only over a small portion at the cast end tlie primary triangulation does not yet reach, but the secondary triangulation is accurate enough, ·and near enough to the main triangles upon which they are grounded to secure against all doubts upon sufficient accuracy for the detail operations of topography and hydrography. When the main triangulation will be · again carried to that side of the work, it will soon cover it over."-183£1 ,...' 40, Doc. 20, p. 3. [Hassler. 6. Questiou. Cannot any scientific persou, who is competent in and well practised in the secondary triangulation, perform the primllry? Answer. The primary requires more mathematical knowledge than the secondary, und greater knowleugc of praclical means; but to the whole question, I answer, yes. · ' 7. Ques1ion. Jf .Mr. Hassler sbonl<l die, must the' survey stop, for want of any person in the survey, or in the couritry, to take it np and carry it on? Auswcr. No. 8. Quootion. \Vliich !ms proceeded furthr::st in ~tdvauce, the primary or q1e secondary lriangnlation? 'A'.tis\ver. The E!econdary. I add, thut the s:~conrfary is necessarily im·perfect, inasmuch as it depc11ds on the primary for its verification. . 9. Question. If the primary had preceded the secondary, migfa,not the 'latter have beet; verified as it proceeded? Answer. Certainly. 10, Qneslion. \Vhy !ms the primary been allow£:ll to remr(iu in arrears of the secondary triangulation? Answer. I caunot say. [F'ergmo11,p. 14.
Non; ( !13.)

03. Question. Is it not working wrou~ end foremost for a :-;ocoudury to precede a primary triangulation? . An'swer. I think not, because the secondary loses none of it~ accuracy by the primary following it. '64. Question. Can you ascertain what the errors of the secondary are until you have the primary? · Answer. No. [Ferguson,p.·18.

62. Question. When a secondary triangulation precedes thC' priniary, is it not a second without a first ? · Answer. Technically, it is.

Rep.

li o.

170,,

53

NOTE (34;)

s. The seco.ndary trio.ngul.ation, in· tum, forms the bash~ of the. plauefaWe or topograp,hical surveys; these include all the details of the ground, oqtline oft.he coast or shore, courses of bays, rivers, roads, &c. [ Swift,p: 36.
Non: (35.)
36. Question. Is 1~ot the use of secondary triangles for plane-table parties

to furnish detailed pliliuts?
Answer. Yes. 3'1. Question. If in any work there ue but one series of triangles, does a11y such fact exist as primary and secondary ? Answer. No. [lllu,nf,p. 24. 59. Question. What necessity is there of pluue .. ta.blo parties, except near the coast? Answer. No absolute ne.ces~ity, except for the secoudary triangulation near lhe coast. 60. Question; How far in from the coast have plane-table parties gone on the survey ? . · Answer. I cannot say precisely. They arc carrioJ on by Mr. Gerdes, Mr. Sands, Mr. Boyd, Mr. Dickens, and l\Ir. Werner. 61. Question. Do the plane-table parties require much science? Answer. They require practical skill. [Fcrguson,p. 18.
NOTE (36.)

4. Tha hydrographic determinations are made entirely by tho na.val assistants of .Mr. Hassler. Points on shore aro furnished by the triangulation, both main and secondary, together with tho coast or shore line.from the pla.ne-table surveys. By this means Tho sounding parties are eua bled to deterllline the true position of their soundings, by ineasuring the angles subtended between sta.tions previously established .upon the shore. [Swift, p. 36.

No·n; (37.)
Here, then, is the essential difference between a. survey by triangulation and astronomical determinations, or even tlrn so called "chronometric survey," (a misnomer, by the way, for it is not a sur1Jcy.) One consists in a connected work, carried on upon the earth's smfacc, nud made by means of an uninterrupted series of triangles; while the other is composed of a collection of observations npon the celestial bodies, made at detached points, each place of observation being indopcll<l,!3nt 1lf the other. In tho first method the connexion is complete, while iu the others there is 110 connexion whatever. [Swif.t,p. 34.
No'l'E (33.)

"The secondary triaugulation east of this has been continucJ, joining the parts report(1r] upon heretofore, and extending further to Dlock island, and over the shores of Rhode Island and onwards, grounding upon the eastern side of the main triangulation, made for its guide. In a similar

Rep. N~ 170.
manner, the secondary triangles south in New Jersey have been properly multiplied between the sea shore and the Delaware, nnd extending south· erly to the neighborhood of Philadelphia, grounding upon the lines of the main triangulatiou~ laid out for that pmpose, between Neversink and the neighborhood of Springfield mountain, which had already been a station point of my triangulation in 1817. (1837-'38,Doc. 14, page 3, vol. 2. "The extension of the secondary triangulation over New Jersey, between the Raritan bay, the Delaware, aud the sea shore, for which the accurate first clements are given by the main triangulation, carried entirely to the same extent, and from the southern line stated above, for all other works were carried in advance of the main triangulation, with the view at the same time to explore for the main triangulation the most fa\·orable points," &c.-1839-'40. Doc. 20, p. 4, vol. 2. Two secondary triangulation parties were engaged this year, as habitual, the one following mainly the country west of the Delaware, and southerly to the head of the Chesapeake bay, over which triangles are lnid out further south than last year,· the irregular conformation of the elevated parts of that country, and their geucrally more exteuded flat tops, lead uaturally to equally irregular combinations of the triangles. These works, therefore, include all the State of Delaware, and parts of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Marylaml. The other secondary triangulation party was engaged in the southern part of New Jersey, laying out a triangulation from some lines of the other parry near the Delaware, towards the Atlantic to the east, and towards the southern extremity to Cape .May.-1810-'·11, Doc. 14, page 3, vol. 1. "South of Neversink, the secondary triangulation has been carried," &c. "in advance of the main triangulation," [see cletails, p. 56-gives no .sketches.]_;_1S36-'37,page 56, vol. 1, doc. 13. In the. work of the survey of the coast, the secondary triaugulation now encompasses the southern part of the State of New Jersey, from Staten island to Cape May; one series nf triangles was carried around on the east or coast side, while a second was carried down the Delaware river o.ml bay, uniting ucar the.southern point of the State. The length of the side of the triangle which was common to hoth series was, of course, determined by each chain of triangles--one by the coast, and the other by the Velo.ware bay; the difference between the two determinations was two metres, or about six feet.,. In the primary triangles thi~ difference will, from present appearances, be less than one foot.t [Sw1Jt,p. 34. 19. Question. What objection is there to publi!lhing the details and mathematical clements of the work, as completed, from Point Judith to New York harbor ? / Answer. The main triangulation has not beeu completed so far as Point Judith, but only the secondary. The main triangulation has been completed only between Friar's Head, opposite New Havcu, and ]\fount Carmel, in Connecticut, eastward!y, awl Mouut Holly, New Jersey; and Yards, (Newton township, near Philadelphia,) southwestwardly. Th secondary triangulation has been completed from Poi11t Judith to Cape
· N. B. This iH the dilforence uf two triangulationB, not of trianiiulation and aclual meuurement.-(Sl'e note 19)-A. t How is thii; 111c"rtai11ed 1- A.

Rei>·

1'<!·

170.
1

a5

Henlopen on the coast, ans from New York across to the head of the Chesapeake. [Hrissler, p. 5. 40. Question. Why is not the main triangulation up with tht' secondary:? Answer. On account of the difficulty of .finding suitable elevations on both sides of the Dela ware. 41. Question. \Vho conducts the main triirngulation? Answer. I myself, according to positive stipulation. 42. Question. \Vhy is not the ma.in triangnlation carried ns far eustward as the secondary ? · Answer. Because it was uot needed. 43. Question. When will it be needed ? Answer. So soon as the junction is made with the base line on the Chesapeake. 44. Question. When that junction is made, do, you propose, to suspend tho worksonth, and go l:.ack enst, or to have two.parties? Answer. Wl_1en the junction is made, while the secondary trinngulntion goes pn south, I shall continue the primary triangnlation east. [Hass/et·, p. 7.

(NOTE 39.) Vpon the question of limitatio'I). of the works for the survey

of the coast.

1. The limitation to nny determined distance from the const would '(equire that the mountains, which nre indispensably necessary for the station points of the sun·ey, be within that limited distance. 2. This is well known not. to be the fact; therefore, also, the limitatioP. not adapted to the nature of the country; hence this limitation would become impossible to be observed, if even decreed. 3. If even smallr.r elevations were found within these limits, which, it might be said, are fit to substitute instead oftha greater ones, itw-0tdd be improper to' use them otherwise than sons tl1ey are used now, namely: for secondary triu1igles an<l the plane~table operations. 4. These smaller elevations, from their too great proximity to etLch other, would occasion triangles l>y fnr too small to give the accuracy required for the connexion of the work. 5. The nmltiplica.tion of the trinugles would evidently also require a much greater length of time to execute them, because every one of them \Vould require as mnch time nnd trouble as one of the large triangle:,;;, which might cover six or twelve of these small ones. 6. With this increasing of the operations, the necessity of cutting through woods, &c., increases actually in still greater proportiou than the triangles themselves, nn<l these cuttings arc one of tho great ditliculties of the work. 7. Snch smaller triariglcs arc even much more tedious to make properly than the lurge o'nes ; therefore, they consume each more time, nnd, of necessity, retard the work, by limitiug the greater strides which the freedom df the work at prcseut admits. The fmproper increase of rhe expenses is self-evident. · [ Hasslei·, p. 5!J. Non: (39 bis.)

To guard against the errors which might accumulate on the last side.9 of a Jong trigonometric net, attached to a single base, the whole of the

·ss
p~gn.an,.aud

.R'ep. lo·. 179.

t)'.iallgnlation of France.shall be attached to tlw bases of: Mehm, .of. Perof Ensishcim, as wcJI as tl1e three otllcrs that shall be meassure,d,,.&,c.-llfemorial du flepot de lf1 Guerre, vol. I, p. 29. · 'J'l~e: iqxtremities -of the new are were at Mallor.n a11cl Pahtawara. ,'fhe distance was found to be !J2,7iS toiscs, an<l the difference of the latitudes 1° 37' 20.3"; whence 1°== 57,196 toises. This agrees much better than the result of Maupertuis (57,422 toistts) with other measures; but the · differeuce which implies a1.i error of 12'' in the latitude of Kittis, ns determined by the French academicians, has not been satisfactorily accounted for; so that there is still some doubt about the length of a degree in that Jatitude.-Encydopmdiu .Britannica, vol. 9, p. 550.

No·n: (-lO.)
5. Quest'ion. Are yoij acquainted with hydrographical surveys in England? Answer. Yes. · 6. Question. Do they publish results as soon as ascertained ? Answer. They are published in sheets so soon as completed, to he useful to navigation. · 7. Question. Can copies or information be obtained by individuals? . Answer. Yes; I have known copies to be obtained repcatodly for \UY lirother, who is a chart seller ; as from the Thunder and from the Illossom. _s. Question. Does the hydrograpbical office in England derive any profit'. from the sale of the charts ? Answer. I think £200 or £300 per annum. The charts are pnblished ·under the direction of the Admiralty, with the seal of the Admiralty to authenticate them. 9. Question. Have you applied at any time, us an individual, to the hy<lrographic office ? · Auswer. Captain Beaufort offered to give me personally any information I desired. This was when I was a private individual, before being connected with tho sun'ey. . ·[Blunt,p. 22. O. Questiou~ Have yo.u, in the examination of Dela ware bay, discovered any great errors in the supposed location of any shoals? Answer. Yes; very great. ";. Question. 111 what cases? Answer. Ill that of Cross ledge, especially; but there is no proper chart of Delaware bay; the only one extant is a mere rude sketch. The error in the case of Cross ledge was four miles~ I think. . s. Question. Is it not importa11t that these errors should immediately be ma<le known, and a correct chart of the bay published? Auswcr. Yes, undonbtcdly. , 9. Question. Do you know of any reason for withholding from the public a knowledge of the souncli11gs of Delaware bay, us far as verified by
VO\\? .

· Answer. I know of none. [Blake,p. 41. 110. Question. Have the gros11est errors ill the position of places, i;cated in one of your reports to have been ascertained by you during the survey, been pointe<l ont by yon, for public information? . Answer. They have not yet been made public, but will be when the works rclati11g 10 those places are published. [ Ha8slcr, p. 11

Rep. No. -l7().

.

57

1.9. QuestiM. Did you sound tha. new channel, commonly called God~ 11ey's channel ? . , Ani>wer. Yes. . . ~o, .. Quef!lion. Woulcl yo1,1. have been able, with the m·uirnHy for;-i!ities f(ir,,sounp.iqg, to.ascertain that channel, without the previous triang\liatiou of tho coast ? , Answer. Yes; I could have buoyed it out so far as to make it equally usqfu~ .to navigation. . 21. Question. ls the knowledge of that channel of great importa.uce to the shippiug of Now York? Answer. I think it is. · 22. ,Question. Co\.1lc). not a master of a vessel, when employed off the harbor of New York, with io;uch information us a good chart of the harbor would furnish.,i:un his vessel in witl1 tolerable safety by that channel.? Answer. Yes. ·. ~3 .. Q.nestion. Do you know any reason why a chart of that channel fats not bocu published ? Answer. I do not know any, unless it be that it was not ready .. Mr. Hassler has charge of that; I have not. 24. Question. When did you sound out that channel? Answer. In 18!~5. . [ Gedney1 p. 39. 11. Question. What is the chief occasion of wrecks on Long Island? Answer. Whon vessels are running in, and are caught by a heavy southeaster, it is difficult to get out, from the trending of the two coasts of Long_. Island and of New Jersey, and the current setting from the New Jersey const, by reason of which vessels, being thus embayed, ure apt to be driven. on shore. 12. Question. Have you sounded Jamaica bay? Answer. Yes, in 1835. 13. Question. Whut depth of water did you carry ioto that bay? Answer. Six feet at low water, eleven aud a half at high water, in common tides. At.the present time, the depth at low water is seventeen feet. 14.· Qnestiou. Would not tho knowledge of tho actual depth of th~ water in the channel leading into Jamaica bay be useful to a vessel which was unable to claw off the coast? Answer. Yes; it might preserve a vessel fro:n being strandtild; . [G~d"ey,p; 38. 35. Qnestion. Do you know any reason why the soundings taken by you should not be published? [Gedney, p. 40. Answer. I do not. NoTE (41.) lG. Question. You have exhibited to the committee abstracts of the whole work 011 the coast, from Point Ju<.lith to Capo May; what objection is there to drn publication of those abstracts? Answer. Tho first objection is, that no base of verification has yet been measured; the second is, that we are uncertain as to the difference in any meridian in this country and any in Europe, to a minute and a half in longitude ; and the third is, that we have not yet detormincd the ellipticity of the earth. 17. Quustion. Is either of those things necessary to give practical utility to tho soundings and distance:s in particular bays or harbors?

58

Rep9 No.· 170.

Answer. Perhaps not ; but the superintendent will of course take care of his character as a man of science. 18. Question. - In your opinion, ought the practical use of the work, by its publication, to mariners, to be deferred indefinitely, for the supposed purpose of allowing the superintendent to take care of his character as a ma.n of scieilce ? Answer. No. [Fe,.guson,p. 15. 28. Question. Have the mathematical clements of the charts of Bridgeport, New Haven, and Newark, been published? Answer. No ; that will come into the general account. 29. Question. When do you propose to publish such a. general account? Answer. So soon as I shall have reached the verification base on the Chesapeake. so. Question. When do you expect to reach that point?· Answer. In a few years. [H'Jssler, p. 6. 93. Question. Have you determined the latitude and longitude of any points on the coast ; and if any, how many and what? Answer. I have ascertained the latitude and longitude of points on the coast as well as inland, according as the triangle fell. 9~. Question. Why have not these important points on the coast, thus determined, been made public ? Answer. 'l'he time of the publication is when the general account of triangulation is given, before which it will be of no use. [Hassler, p. 10. 31. Question. Will n minute and a half's difference between the EUl'opean and American meridians show on ordinary maps? Answer. Ycs; it would be about a mile. 32. Question. Why has not this difference, in the course of the ten years since the resumption of the survey, been ascertained? Answer. I cannot answer that. We have observed eclipses of the sun. 'Ve have made no other observations for the longitude. 33. Question. Hnve the observations.thus made been reduced? Answer. Yes, and calculated. I add, that, if we had considered it a sine qua non to determine the longitude, the' time occupied in this way might have returded the other work. . 34. Question. But you have previously said that the want of the determination of this fact was one of the objections to publishing any part of the work. Answer. I said it was an objection, but I did not mean to be understood as saying that it was an insuperable objection. [Ferguson, p. 16. I. Question. Do you kno\V any suflicient reason why maps and other results of the survey should be \Vithheld from the public knowledge ? Answer. None, when they are in sufficiently complete state to be useful to navigators. [Blunt, p. 22.
NoTE (41 bis.)
120. Question. Do you think that, under the most favorable circumstances, and with continuance of a yearly appropriation of $L00,000 1 the survey of the coast can be completed in twenty years? Answer. Perhaps. The progress is slower at first, and the means in[ lillss/e,., p. 12. crease as the work proceeds.

Rep. No. 110:
C/(1,ssification of tM expenses.
The whole amount expended for the survey of the coast from the appropriation therefor, for the year 1841, was $96,174 98. I. Of thi'l sum, the genera~ expenses of the work, including the main triangulation~ compensation of all persons employed therein, instruments and books, and all expenses · not enumerated in the items below, nmountcd to f.l. The secondary triangulatiou, including compensation of persons thereirt employed, 3 parties 3. The hydrographic surveys, including the cost of repairs of the vessels, bo.Nr:'i, &c., a11d allowances to officers for expenses, 2 par~~and 4 vessels '\, Plane-table or~opographicnl stm·eys, including compens..'\tion of nil persons employed therein, 6 parties -

59

$32,671 09

19,352 06 2.'.i,459 16 18,692 67 96,174 98

[Swift, p. 36. With reference to the appropriation to be proposed to Congress for the coast survey for this session, I take the liberty to snggest the propriety: that it shall be again one hundred thousnnd dollars, which several of the latter years have pl'On~d to be exactly adequate to the proper, and in pro- ' portion to its effect, and success in the results, nlost economical amount of expenditure ; though it must be considered that it· will have to provide for two spring's outfits of the going into the field of th" smveying parties, and· that the expenses are of course incrcnsed by the whole amount required for the engraving nnd printing of the map of New York, &c. But on another side, the nature of the field work will, it is hoped, allow some slight reduction in the amount of expeuses; and thnt nt the time thE' np· propriution will be made, a smnll balance of the present appropriation may yet remain disposo.ble.-1842-'3, Doc. 23, p. 5.
. l

Non: (42.)

B.
Remarks upon tl1e surve.11 of tlte coast

of the

United States.

1. The law authorizing the survey of the con~t was passed Febrt\ary 10, 1807. 2. Circular letters were aJclresscd by the Treasury Department to \·arious scientific men in the United States, asking for o. plan of operations. Thirteen such were received, and submiJtetl to a committee oflearned men in Philadelphia, with the late Professor Patterson nt their head. After full consideration, the plan proposed by Mr. Hnssler wns adopted. 3. From the passage of the ln.w until 1811, no active steps wore tnken, in consequence, principally, of the umiettled state of the country. 4. In August, 1811, Mr. I-fossler was sent to England to procnre instm· ments, in nccordnnce with the plan proposed by him in 1807. These in&trume11ts had all to be constructed; and, for·the purpose of Sllperintend-

·

60

Rep. No(). 17·0·

ing the same, he remainf.d in Engl,and until .1815, nt which time he l'erurned to the United States, with all the instruments and appendages requisite for the work. The war, want remittances for payment of tho instruments purchased, tbe difficulty ofproet1ring suitable artists to construct tho same, &c., conspired to protract his stay in England nearly two years bcyon'd the time which he had allotted to this part of his labor. 5. In August, 1816, Mr. Hassler \Vas appointed to superintend the survey of the coast, under the law of 1807. Tho necessary preparations for the wo1·k, including reconnoitring, &c., consumed the time between .August, 1816,and April, 1817. At that period a proper locality for a base line was discovered in New Jersey, and in July of the same year the actual triangulation was commenced. · [Swift,p. 30. 11. .July 10, 1832, the law uf lSOi was revived, an.Q.Mhe employment of such " astronomers anJ othe\' persons" as the Pres,tl(tlt shou1_d deem proper was again authorized. ..,,, . 12. At the request of the Treasury Department, Mr. Hassler submitted a plan of operations for tho work, being, in fact, the same which he had Jlroposed in 1816. On the 9th August, of same year, he was again appointed to the jprvey, and to carry into effect the law of July 10. Prior to this period hl!'liad been employed by the Treasury Department in making comparisons of the various weight:; aud measures in use at the several custom-houses, with a view to the construction of uniform standards of the same for the Union. 13. The two works, of the coast survey and that of the construction of standard weights and measure~, being, by their nature, intimately· con-: nected, and the means of accomplishing each being in many instances.the same, :Mr. Hassler was chu.rged by the .Treasury Department \Vith the execution of both; and, since the period referred to, the two works have received his whole attention. 14. Since 1832 the survey of the coast has been diligently prosecuted. The remainder of the s~ason, between August an<l December of that year, was employed in reconnoitring and othel' preparations; aud eaJ1ly in the following year (1833) the triangulatiou was recommenced, and has been making steady progress from that time to the present. In 1834 a new base line was measured on Long Islund, and the secondary triangulation, hydrographical work,ancl plane-table surveys, have also been in active progress,

of

pari passu.

·
N"oTJ:: (43.)

Swift,p. 32.

Another addition, particularly useful to navigation, was to obtain a complete series of observations of the val'iation of tl1e magnetic needle over the whole extent of the coast. I intended that the magnetic bearings should be observed at all the stations every do.y, by an assistant, the needle being sta)ionary in one point for that purpose ; but during the short time that I worked, the multiplicity of my other occupations, and other circumstances, hindered me from doing more than just to observe it once myself ai the close of each stl\tion.-Hassler's

Coast Survey, p. 17 5.
A second will act as an assistant observer in such observationa as require

it, observe regularly at stated hours, and, at the time of every observation requiring it, the barometer and thermometer, of which he will keep a. reg-

·

llep. No.
p. 174.

~ 70.

61

ular journal, make the observations of the magnetic needle, in cnses where it is of interest, as in the sun·ey of a seu. coast-llassler's Coast Survey, Mr. Hassler says : He made certain -obse1·vatious ';last summer" "on the declination of the magnetic ueedle of oue foot length, o.rrange<l for inversion, and constructed for this purpose already in 1813 ;" that he "had intended 'to carry on constaut observations" ''upon this importaut element of this guide of the navigator, but the general press of the work not allowing to devote time for this purpose, the plo.u was abundoued after the first year."-1840-'41, Doc. 14, p. 5, vol. 1.
NoTE (-14.)

20. Question.· What reason is there for concoaliug from the public the clements of the \Vork between Friar's Head and Mount Holly? Answer. None. 21, Question. Has it been published? Answer. No; it is not proper. 29. Question. Why is it not proper? Answer. Because it will introduce ih1itations of the WC1l'k, to the detriment of its validity. · 23. Question. Imitations by whom? A r1swer. By common chart sellers, or others. [Hassin, p. 5. To 107 and 108: It is well Am.own thut the finer style of topography is not in practice yet in this country; my duty required, that this pal't of the execution of the work should· be of tile best qmtJ.ity, to answer Jwuorably the aim of the work, in its final appearance in the public : therefore I procured, with authorization of the Treasury Department, two men known in Enropc already iu this line, from the quarter in best reno.wn for the 11ppropriated style of these works, which will guide the $tyle of the work, also with the engravers, to be engaged hereafter. [ llas.~ler, p. 61. To !lO, 21, and 22: .For concealing. Dut it would be of no use \\1 hntsoevcr to any body except copyists, who would, by abusing the public property in the work, degrade it. It would be, therefore, 1111 expense not only useless, but very detrimental. It will, besides, nil appear in the nccou11t ~ef.me<l to in the addition t0 1D; in fact it would be highly improper to do it, before the publkution of the moro cxte11si\1e system, of which it shall fonn npart in proper time. Thel'<'\ iEO however no co11cealme11t 11 Liont it. To ZS atld: It is the duty of the Governmeut lo let 110 parcelling out he possible, under penalty of !i~cing the Government's owu work ultimately discredited; such n desire cnnMt be fairly entertained. To 24 add: ThiR quality- of being official is absolutely required to give confidence to the public, therefore security to the navigation, (see question 5, in my report of December lo.st.) [ flas.~ler, JI· 50.
NOTE (45.)

circle.-Encyclopedia Brit., vol.

I>ehmibre ·and Mechain remeasured the arc of the .meridi:ur of Paris~ nud extended it from Dunkirk to Ra:rcelona, a diattince · comprijhending rJ.I. together .au arc of abeut ~ clegrees. This w.ork occupied the )'enrs '17-'92, 1799; and 1794.; the triangles amounted to ·115 in nutnber., Eitchl<tf-the three angles"of every tdaogle was··separately·observedrwith IL Npaa1t11t
91 page 550.

. 62

Rep. No._ .170.
NoTl!l (46.)

Mudge's primary stations 1792 = 12. '93= 15.
'94 =

'96 17. '97= 22.

1800, 'I, '2,

'!3,

26. '4, ·5, 16, '7, 8, '9 = 107.

--

= '98 = '99 =

'95=

s.

6, and base measured.

13.

19) 226 (11.9, nearly 12 per annum. [Mudge's 7'rigonometrical Surve!J·

No-rE (41.)
I

116. Question. You stated in your printed report that you had accomr plished more in a shorter time, aud at less expense, than had been dnno in any other work of a similar kind ; with what works do you make this comparison? Answer. The English general survey of England, Ireland, and Scotia.nu; the French survey of the inland and coast of France. LHassler~p. 12.

No·rn (48.)
'l'imFs of goi11g lo lite field work, and returning from
i~,

eac/1 yea,..

ln 1832.
September 25. Having received the instruments, I left Washington the 26th September, at 8 o'clock, A. M., to reconnoitre for the continuance of my works of 1817, towards the east of it; returned to Washington the 31st ;fanuary, 1833, iu the cvening.1833. April 51.h. Left Washington fot the first beginning of actual primary triangulation; returned to Washington the 3d January, 1834, in the evening.
1834.

After hav-ing :finished all the preparations and comparisons for the meas·· urement of the base line, I left the 29th May, at 9 o'clock, A. M., haviu~ made also stations; returned 21st January, 1835, in the evening.
. 1835.

There being much calculation to be made, and many arrangements for the organization of the parties, the State of Maryland having offered an arrangement, to join the survey of that State with that of the coast. survey, I went out only at different intet.vals, to reconnoitre the country in Maryland, and until Washington, and the oute·r bays, accompanied by

Jdr. J ·..H. Alexander, of Baltimore, until late in the fall and win~r.

Rep. No. 170.

63

1836. The present office was established. I left 17th August, .and returned the 8th January, 1837. 1837. l left Washington 4th June, and returned 5th January, 1838.
1838.

I left Washington July 19th, and returned 24th December, 1838.
1839. I left Washington the 9th June, and returned the 5th January, 1840. 1840.

I left Washington the 17th September, 1840, and arrived again at Wa15bington the 20th January, 1841. ·
1$41.

I_ left Washington 29th August, 1841, and returned 22d December, 1841.
This enumeration shows how the office work has increased since the beginning, when the element~ for it were first to be collected in the field. In the progressed state of the work, the calculations, making of projections, to take to the field for the topographic and hydrographic works, their plotting, and working out, &c., require as much, and in most cnses even more, work in the office than out of doors, so that indeed the going out for the field work is considered a real relief from the harder and tedious works of the office. · For the time of tho going out or returning of the assistants, for their part of the work, they must be called up themselves individunlly ; it is easily comprehended that they depend entirely on the favorablo or unfavorable $Cason for the going out as well as for the return. .

F. It HASSLER.

W ASllINGTON CxTv,

~1'larch

30, 1842.

[IIassle,·, p. 12. ,

['l'o be annexed to Mr. FerguHOD 1d testimony.)

Harrow. Round. 183S-Wensel. Bald. Springfield. Tashua. 1839-Bearon Hill. Mount Cunnel. Disborough. Ruland. Stony Hill. West Hills. :Mount Hose. 1834-Basc meiusmc<.1. Nc\Vtowu. 1835-Recomwissanec in Mal'yland. \Villow Grove. 18!j6-West Hills. 1840-Willow Grove ... 18S7-Rulaud. Mount Holly. East base. l 84 l -Y tm.L West bas·._ [Ferguson J1· 21. 25. Question. Was nny body drn ongagcd i11 Marylrrnd in 1835? Answer. Only Mr. Hassler, with Mr ..forncs JI. Alexander, as n mere reconnoissl\nce. [Ferguson, p. 15 .
. · Tho,11a\ion of W&llow Grovo wu OOIJUpied buth iD 1889 ud 18'0.

1833-Buttermilk.

.B~p~

No.

170}

No;E (49.)
"Olllr ten rears were employed in the actual work;· of. which: thlHwo first, 1816 uud 1817, were rendered'usaiess" "by the o\·t~rchrow of the
work. in 1818."--Doc. No. 28; page 3, 1841-'42 1 (See uote 51.) "The results of the coast !>lll'vey will furni8l1 for the future regular systematic data to ground auy detail sttr\·cy~; upon."-Doc. No. 28, page

11, 1841--'42 ..
~OT.E (501)

Alf the work::1 here stated ha'Ve of course re11uired considerable ·of my persl)na\ attention and attendance; they are now in fnll, active, and regular pr.ogress. Adding to tliis the propriety of finally execnting a11d comparing chc number of standard yards, upon which (have had the stttisfaction to report to tlic Treasury Departrne11t t!1e 10th of .Inly last, there was tJUfficlcnt good. grot11Hl for rne to dc,b~r my going out in the field to measure angles for .the' main triungulutioil until later in the seusoti;. some of my assistants beiug cugu~ed' during tbat time in reconnoitring preliminarily foi· µ.ppropriate station J)oiuts for these triang)r.s,..ut. lhe same time thatthey pursned the secondary triangulation, 1i work \Vhich would hnvc cost nie. a~considerable los.v of time in travelling about the count1y, which lcons1dered far better e·mployed in the manner ·1 did. . , ·.This latter part of the season in which I'am now ~ngnged nt the 1nai11 triangulation, has hitherto been very fovori1ble, und promises to continue tlO Sti\l OllWMdS j this is SO mµc\i UlOfe defoab\e, as the nature of the COUil· try presents considerable difticulties by its coufiguration. , 1f the wenther ,0f~he coming seasqn will allow it, I shall keep the field for the mc<i.suremcnt ofanglcs for' the _mnili triangles as Ion£' as ever possible ; after which, [ intend still, nndM· the favor of the wootls l1eing free o[ leaves, to recon. noitre myself for the discovery of Iriore soutb'"ern points for the main trian-

gulation. .
·"The "denser atmosphere of the lo\ver countries, and particularly the circumstance cousequent thereto, that _the rays of light between distaut objects pass nearer to the surface of the earth, forn1 a considerable impediment to the good vision required for the work.-(1840-'41, Doc. 14,_p. 2, vol. 1.) , _ [ Has.9 ler. 19. Question. What sum is allowed to Mr. Hassler, annually, for expenses, exclusive of compe11sa.tion? Answer. Salary $3,000, awl .expenses .$3,000,. 20. (luestion. For what expen~cs is this $3,000 <lesigned? Is it for personal expenses? Answer. I suppose it is the expenses of living. . 21. Question. Is he puid for other expenses when he gocso into the field ? Answer. He is furnished -with au instrument carriage and horses for the instruments-and himself; and u baggage wagon besides, tor instruments, nt the public expense.' .. 22. Question. Is it the same carriage which be is accustomed to use in Washington ? . , , , Answer. .Yes. · 23 .. Questiou; Are horses and meu pa.id at the public expe.nse for the car. l'iage..Qed w&gon~through th~ year? · . Answer. ''\'es'f'forit l'iotses/bhe ·pel't'rianent 'di:fier;dttd·an6 '·o'ther man, who also assists about the office. lSwift,p. 26.

Rep.

·No.

ti:-o.

NoTE (51.)

Que.vtions n.f the resolution of Oon1r1·ess of Ju12e 24, 1841, relatin!J to tlae sur1Je,y of the coast of ll1e United States, with the answers to (lie same, by F. R. Hassler.
Qnestion I. ·;The progress which shall have been made in tho survey of the coast." The works of the survey of the coast cover BOW upwards of 11,000 square miles, with primary and secondary triangulation, topogrnphy, mad soundings; from the east end of Rhode Island to the neighborhood of the Chesapeake and Cape May. Thia is evidently a great progress for the time that the work has as yet lasted ; particulurly if it be considered that every thing was to be createdeven the ability of the assistants, they being at first now in the business. It is actnally much more titan has ever been. done in any similm· work before; for it must he recorded: that since the firl't .Jaw of l!:i<J7, uineteen years were entirely unproductive for tho work, by postponement aud interrnption; five year.s were used in procuring the necessary instrnmours, and iu preparations, as before that time there was not a single instr.ument in this country applicable to such n work. Only ten yeurs were employed ill rim actual work; of \Vhich the two first, 1816 nnd 1817, wcro rendered useless, and the expenses mndc becnme a bill of loss, by the overthrow of the work in 1818; so that the whole work now producible is the remit of hardly about eight years actual work.-(Do9. 28, p. 3, 1841-'42.) Question 19. What objection is there to publishing the details and mathematical clements of the work, as completed, from Point .Judith to New York harbor ? Answer. The main trinngnlation has not been completed so for as Point Judith, but only the secondary. The lllain triangulation has he1311 completed only between Friar's Head, opposite New Haven, lllld "l\fount Carmel, in Counecticnt, custwardly, aud Mount Holly, New Jersey, and Yards, (Newton township, near Philadelphia,) southwestwarc!Jy. The secondary triangulation has bern completed from Point .I udith fo Cape Henlopen, on the coast, and from New York U('J'oss to the !JCacl of the Chesapeake.

[Hassler, p . .'>.

No·n: (52.)
To the question of the committee," How many points were determined iu 1833 iu the main triangulation, 'and what distarice were they apart ; what extent of country did they cover; what number in 1834, 1835, 1836, 1837, 1838, 1839, 1840, aud 1841; :1.11d what extent of couu1ry do they cover?" Mr. I<'ergnson answers: · . Thnt the part of the qmcstion as to tl1e di.vtances "apart" is answered by giving, in tho following schedule, tho length of the longest am! shortest lines of the sur\·ey cuch year; thal it is dilficult to divide tho works of succossi vo years from each otlwr; and that tho computations are give. in gross in square sta111to miles, presuming that the committee merely wished an approximate aud comparuble cslimare. 111 18!!3, length of longest line, miles 41.3 i Square miles cover· lcugth of shortest line, miles 1.2 5 ed, · l,SSQ 5

86

Rep. No. 170.

Jn 1834, 1835, and 1836, though other stations were occupied, the primary triangulation did not cover any additional space. In 1837, length of longe&t line, miles - 20;69 i S . length of shortest line, miles 8. 73 5 · quare mi1 es, In 1838, length of longest line, miles - 38.41 i S 'I length of shortest liue, miles 23.29 S quare ml es, In 1839, length of longest line, miles - 31.00 i S . length of shortest line, miles 10.93 S quare mi 1 es, In 1840, length of longest line, miles 18.51 i S .1 length of shortest Jiue, miles 12.30 S ' quare ml es, In 1841, length of longest line, miles - 31.02 i S 'l length of shortest line, miles l 7.07 5 quare ml es, Square miles covered by whole primary triangulation

3183('0 1,070 209

730
3,57i

[Ferguson, p. 20. The work of the principal survey will be to form n chain of triangles, with sjdes of about thirty miles in length, along the whole extent of the coast, so as to join the distant parts by the shortest and most accurate lines possible, and to determine the azimuths of the sides of the triangles, and tho latitudes and longitudes of their angular points. Within these, a series of · triangles, with sides of about ten miles, \Viii be formed to join them, part of which it will sometimes be possible to carry on simultaneously with the large ones. The object of these will be to furnish an ample number of determined points to which the survey may be referred iu all its details. · {llassler's Coast 8urvey,p. 15.
NoTE (52 bis.) In the fall;·the atmosphere of the low countries, particularly tho sea shore, becomes very untransparent,and the time of the day favorable'for accu_. rate obwrvations so limited, that it can' hardly ever be expected to take a full series of angles consecutively. For instance: from my station at the east end of the verification base, near Gravesend, in December, 1817, the large light-house off Sandy Hook, only about nine miles cliStant, was never visible a whole hour in the morning or evening ; and as so.on as the ground was warm in the morning the signal at the west end of the verification base, near five miles off, moved about irregularly, in a circle of about one· minute. · [ I-Iassler's Coa1d 8urve,y, p. 167. The sand hills on the low sea shore, and the looming which takes place upon them, would have rendered necessary for these places the construction of a stand of about 24 feet elevation, solid, and firmly attached to the · ground, upon which the instrument, with its stand, might be placed. [Has.~ler's 6Joast Sttrvey, p. 169.
NoTE (53.)

JL is but fair, and perhaps also necessary, to state to the committee that tlie effect of the µrimary triangulation, in the progress of the Rllrvey, is not . properly estimated by the num her of square miles within th ~ l olygon which it makes, but by the quan,ity of secondary triangulatki1 IM w·:ich it afford

Rep. No. 170.

67

cd the bases. In this view of the S,!tbject, the number of square miles cov[Ferguson,p. 21. ered in each year would be much increased.
NOTE

(54.)

"The work seems to gniu so much in interest and credit, that it must be expected the anxiety of the public to enjoy its results will increase.". " With these views, I shall early this winter cause a considerable pai;t of the work to be brought together, to enable me to combine, as early as admissible, plans for the future creditable publication under the authority ofGovernment."-(lS3i-'3B, Doc. 14, p. 5.) [Hassler.
NOTE

(55.)

33. Question. Does the work on the weights and measures occupy any of your time, which might be appropriated to the survey? Answer. No. It does not take any of my time. 34. Question. How much of your time is devoted personally to tho COil.St survey? Answer. All the time, except thlinspection and reporting 011 tho weights and measnres. 35. Qnestion. How much time' does it take to inspect and report upon the weights and measures? Answer. About half u11 hour in the morning and half an hour in the afternoon oft he clay, bnt not of each day. This is only while I am in the ofiic'e. I nm generally in the field from the middle of Muy to that of Decetnber; sometimes I um in the field to tho end of December. 36. Question. At what time iu the spring do the different corps start on their d mies? Answer. Generally in April, remu~ning until the middle or end of November. 37. Question. Did you lose part of u year last year; and if so, why? Answer. I lost the most of last year's work, in order to answer the resolution of the· House of Representatives on the coast survey of June 24, 1841, and hy tho fever which seized me in October. 38. Question. At what time did you take the field last year, and how much of your time did the resolution occupy? , Answer. I did not take the field until tho middle of September. .The resolntion occupied mo three or four weeks. I was also detained to mnko a report on weights and measurus.. [Hassler, p. 6. No·rE (56.) 15. Question. Is the main triangulution in arrears of the secondary; and

if llO, why?
Answer. It is. I am not aware of the reason, except the illness of Mr. Hassler, and his inability tQ do it, caused thereby. 16. Question. Cannot that work bo performed by one of his assistants , Answer. Yes. · 17. Question. How long has Mr. Hassler been so ill as not tCI be able t attend to that work?

68
Answer.

Rep. No.

170~
He was als()

·m the preceding year, in September.

ft was in October of last year that he became ill.

18. Question. What prevented his taking the field and performing the work in the spring and summer of those two years? Answer. I am unable to say. [Swift. p. 26.
N()TE (57.)

20. My age dates from 6th October, 1770. It is with life or age, like with all other thi11gs, it lasts the longer and remains the longer effectif, the better it is used aud husbanded. [llus.vler'8 pamplilet lOtlt Jan11cl1'y, 1812. Non: (58.)

And I dare to assert, with fqll confiueuce, that never so much actually valuable work was obtained in the same space of time, and Jor tho same proportional amouut of money, in a11y other survey wltatsoev~r. ( 1834-'35, vol. I, page 380, Doc. 2.) [ Elus.fler. 45. Question. Cannot the main triangulatiCln be carried on except under your imlllediate personal supervision ? Answer. Not in the prernnt state of things. 46. Question. Why not ? Answer., Because there is no body to do it1 and the circumstances are contrary. 47. Question. Is there nobody else attached to the survey who can do it? Answer. Not now. 48. Qnestion. What arc the contrary circumstances spoken of? Answer. Want of money ; that is, of a larger appropriation . .J9. Question. Mnst the main tfrrngulation be suspended eastward until you can take it up personally ? Answer. In the present state of things, yes. [ llassler, p. 7. NoTE (58 bis.)

In two campaigu& at se9., with M. De la Brctonnicre, he [Meehain] traced the description of 100 places on the coast, from Nicnport to St. Malo. [Biograplde Universe/le, vol. 28, p. 4fl.] The survey of the coast, before alluded to, h,as, since the Inst a111Jtrnl report, been transferred to the charge of the Navy Deparlment, with which it seams to be more intimately aud appropriately,connectcd. With .this survey, the situation and utility of the preseut light-houses, already bci11g 199 in number, besides 29 light-hoats, and tlic necessity for others from time to time, would seem to he in some degre~ fitly associutccl. As a measure likdy to lead to economy, in not extending the establishment of ligf\thou:;cs beyond the ma! wants of the country, und in fixing their exact locality, so important to the safety of our navigation anti uavy, it is rcspectf1dly recommended that, in the survey now in progress,, Congress should require the htitude and longitude of every light-house to bo carefully ascertui11ed nnd publi~hed-!hc importance of its position to be inquired into, and that no new one be hereafter erected till a rnport is made in respect to irs public bcnefils by the two collectors, and the commander of tho 11avy yard Marest tlie proposed site.-(Rep.·oJ Hon. L. TVoodbury, Sec?-elaryqfthe Treasury-Doc. No. 3, 1831-'35, vol. 1,-page 20.)

Rep. No. 170.
' No·1·E (59.)

69

6. Question by Mr. Aycrigg. You rnfer in your. repol't (Doc. No. 2S) to a number of volumes in which the work is contained; is the work in those volumes reduced? Answer. They are reduced. 7. Question by l\fr. Mallory. Where are these papers kept? Answer. In mv office. · 8. Question by· same. Are thoy safe from fire ? Auswer. Yes. [I/ass/er, p. 3. 13. Question by same. Suppose the house shonld be burnt, and papers destroyed, would uot GovernmeHt sustain great loss? ' Auswcr. Ye:;; but I conceive the house completely safe, proper measures beiug takeh to guard against fire. The houses have been slated with this view. For better se~urity' the roofs ha Ve he en slated; and, in general; every arrangement made for couvenieuce and security. [Has~ler, p. 4'. 7. In every one of the three buildings, which connect all through with one another, two persons at least sleep; these are assistants, clerk, wol'kmen, and I myself, so that the buildings ure well watched all night. 8. The maps and many other valuable objects, are placed so that even i1, the ext rem<! case of fire, they would be saved with the greatest ease. [Hassle1·, p. 44; 9. Question. In whose possessiou arc those facts and data at this time? Answer. They are at the otl1ce in \Vnshington, so far ns completed, nnd except so far us parts of the work now in progress aro in the hands of the aissistants. 10. Question. Are there duplicutes of the observations, meusurements, au<l other unpublished ele111011ts of the survey? Answer. There are oJ parts, but I think not of- the whole. 11. Question. Are tlw elements of the bnse line, and of other primary atul essential parts of the work, in such form and sitnntion as to be secure from loss by fire or ()lhcrwisl', and be capable of being haudAd over to aud understood by uny competent successor of Mr. Hassler? Answer. All this is in dupliculc in the ollice, accessible to the assistants, an<l su~ceptibl(j of being m1derstood a11<l used by them. No part of this · has bceu published except the final wsult the base measurement. The details have not been published. The papers arc subject to the hazard of fire; but not 111orn so, au<l perhups le~s, than in somo other buildings in W :ishiugt.011. 1:2. Questiou. Is there a11y ohjectiou to depositing ouo of the ·luplicutes in each case in the safes of the Trea:mry Depurtmeut? Answer. No. 13. Question. Would uot this be proper, to guard against accidents ? Answer. It certaiuly would udd to the :;e~urity. [Swift,p. 25. 39. Questiou. Where uro the results of the work, so for u.s completed, now kept? Answer. Ju the depot of tho smvcy, at \Vashington. 40. Qn'estion. Are they iu dnplic::ite? Answer. Some; not all. The primary triangulation is all in dttplicate. Of the secondary, mine is not, As to the rest, I do not know. 41. Question. Of that which is iu duplicate, are both parts kept at the depot?

or

7

Rep. No. 170.

Answer. Yes. 42. Question. Several of the public buildings at Washington have from time to time been destroyed by fire; is the depot a fire-proof building? Answer. No; it is not. 1 43. Q.uestion. If the results and other mattP.rs in the depot should be destroyed by fire, must not the work be done over again ? Answer. Yes. Precautions have been taken to enable the speedy removal of the papers, if the building take fire, by their being in cases on the ground floor. 44. Question. Of the work in duplicate, why is not one copy deposited for safe keeping in the Treasury Department ? Answer. I do not know. 45. Qumition. Is all the work in such a state that, if Mr~ Hassler shonld die suddenly/it may be used, and reduced or calculated immediately by others? Answer. Yes. [Ferguson, p. 16.
NOTE

(60.)

"Every time that a certain systematically full part of the work between two .base lines and two astronomic stations will be executed, a full report will bfi made," "until that time, they (the documents and data) must remain in the office in which they originate." [Hassler p. 45. 17. In a gtineral point of view it must be hero observed, that improper advantage might be taken of such communications, if printed as documents of Congress, to transform them into a disgraceful plagiarism of our work, which would forestall the public patronage in an undue and unmerited manner, to the great detriment of the proper future publications, which will, undoubtedly, be made by the Government, whose positive property the results of the coast survey are. In proper time, I should take the liberty to propose a properly calculated and adequate plan to make such publications in that creditable manf1er, which alone can prevent disgrace. Even the granting of extracts from our work, for the advantage of special localities, must be done with precantion. (Doc. 13, p. 58, vol. 1, 183o-'37.) No·ri,: (61.)
24. Question. How is the survey injured by individuals publishing charts copied from those of the survey ? · . Answer. Because the maps would not he official. 25. Question. Would not the publication of the data with the. maps enable scientific men to judge of the accuracy of the work? Answer. Of course. 26. Question. Would not the withholding of the data until the completion of the survey enable the operator to force results? Answer. No; in the manner in which the work is carried on it cannot be. 27. Qutistion. Can scientific men judge of the accuracy of the work unless the mathematical clements of it be published? Answer. No. [Hassler, p. 6.

Rep. N ~· 170.
(NOTE 62.)

71

Delambre,in his biography of his associate, Mechain,sa.ys that he was "one <Of the two astronomers appo_inted to determine the terrestrial and ce1estial, differences between the parrallels of Dunkirk and Barcelona." Mechain ·made a mystery of the discrepancy that he found; refused, for a long time, to communicate his registers; exhibited an invincible repugnance to showing his observation; was oppressed by" melancholy, of which they were far from divining the true cause;" "full of the idea of returning to Spain; communicated to the bureau his project of extending the meridians to the Balearic islands." "His -idea was approved." They 1vished to send another a:stronomer. "To their great astonishment, the bureau listened to Meche.in, who claimed the ownership of this project with the greatest earnestness, who asserted that no one knew the means of succeeding "s well as himself," &c. He guards his manuscripts-with the greatest care ... He becomes sick. "In his delirium, he demands, at each moment, his manuscripts, with anxiety." He dies. "His manuscripts are brought to us; his secret is known by the very me.ans that he adopted to deprive us most. certainly of the knowledge." "We there see the observation of Barcelona, and the the three seconds in which it differed from M.onntjouy. His whole condnct is explained to us, a.nd we see with regret that so trifling a cause" " had poisoned .his last years and hastened his end."

f Biograpliie Unfverselle, vol.

ll8.

What was the nature of the work on which Mcchain was engaged ? Precisely the same as the main. triangulation in the coast ~nrvey. The object was different, but tho work was the same.
NoTE (63.) A certain, systematic, and. constant form 'must be observed in them. They must be written with such regularity and perspicuity, that any man, 'With the proper theoretical knowledge, could execute the calculations, though he nught have been unconnected with the work, itself.-Hassler'1 Coast Survey, p. 171. If assistance enough could be had, it would be proper always to make two fair copies from the first journal, kept unde1· the direction of the ob~

·servcr.-Hassle1·'s Coast Surve.1J, p. 171.
Tho general orders for conducting the French triangulation, contained in volume 6 1 Memorial du Depot de la Guerre, contain the following: Page 11. " In order to a void the loss of the registers, which won Id be prejudicial to this great operation, and to be able ta guaranty the authen-i ticity of the geodctical and astronomical observations; perfect and certified copies of all these observations, as well 11$ of all measures that shall have been taken, shull be sent from the stations themselves to the director of the Depot of Wnr,.to be thern deposited and regi.stered amoug the geodetical archives." · Page 12. The engineer shall preserve carefnll y his "uotes during his· stay in the field, and send tho~n in on his return." Page 16. "The engineers of tho Cadastre shall keep a foir copy of their registers of observP.tion and of the results of their calculations, and shall .send to Paris tho originals or notes, certified on each page." : Page 17. "In fine, after the verification of the large dimensions on tho

Bep., No. 170.
ground," (of the details,) "it shall be addressed, together with the canevas and the trigonometrical register, to the administration of the Cadastre. This, having taken all the means to assure itself of the accuracy of the pieces, shall send them to the Depot of War." Page 32. Order similar to that at page 11, except requiring the name of t.he assistant also. This is a repetition of the regulation. NoTE {64.)
9. Question by same. Are there any duplicates of these papers?

Answer. Some; of the greater part. 10. Question·by same. Of what papers are there duplicates? Answer. Of all, except the last year's work. l l. Question by Mr. Aycrigg. Is the Government in possession of any of the data, or are they in your possession? Answer. They arc in the office-a house rented by the Treasury De-· partment-and under the care of persons in the employment of Government~ 12. Quectiou by Mr. Mallory. Whom do you mean when you say ''persons in tho employment of GClvernment ?'' Answer. Myself and my assistants. [Hassler,p. 3. 9. Question.· In whose possession are those facts and data at this time? Answer. They are at the office iu Washington, so far as completed, and· except so fur as parts of the work uow in progress arc in the hands of the assistants. [Swift, p. 25. 113. Question: What reason is there why all the data must remain ill< your office ? Answer. Because they are in daily use there. [Hassler, p. 12. 9. The whole of the coast survey work must, in all cases, and at all times, be of the easiest access, nay, present, during the whole time that the work is going on, still more so than in any other office such may be required. [Ha.ssler,p. 44 · . 25. Question. Wonkl not the publication of the data with the maps en. able scientific men to.judge of the accuracy of the work? Answer. Of course. · 26. Qnestion. Would not the withholding oJ the data until the completion of the survey enable the operator to force results? Answer. No; in the manner in which the work is carried on it cannot be .. 27. Question. Can scientific men judge of the accuracy of the work unless the mathematical elements of it be published ? Answer. No. [Hassler.,p. 6. 7, Question. Has the work of mensuration and triangulation connected with the maps of Bridgeport, New Haven, anu Newark, bee11 published with them ? · t Answer. No. s. Question. Has any part of the mensuration of the survey, and of the other scientific cleme11ts of the work, been published? Answer. No. 9. Question. Has any systematically full part of the work between two base lines and two astronomical stations been completed as yet? Answer. No; the locality of the coast hithel'lo 1mrveyed has not permitted it. [ flassler, p. 4;

Rep. No. 170.

13'

13. Every time that a certain systematically full part of the \Vork, between. two base lines, und two astronomical stations, will be executed, a. full report will be made, and it is hoped published by Congress, which will rest that part forever, and then the documents of that part may be placed into som& specially selected place of deposite, as original record, but until thnt time they must remain in the office in which they originute. [Hasll'ler, p. 45.

W AsHINGTON C11·v, 1.l1arch .23, 1842. Srn : Among the questions put to me in the committee's meeting, there·

was one, at least, which appeared much insisted upon, and by circumstances. was rather discussed than answered. . ' It seemed to put in doubt the propriety of the journals, and other works of the coast survey, to remain in the coast survey ofiice, and rnquesting them to be delivered to the Treasury Departmentfor safoty. I will horesupply more distinct answers. 1. This office here is one of the ollices of the Treasury Departn,en1, exactly as much as any of the rooms in the Treasnqr buildi11g itself. 2. The extension of the Treasury Departmeut works has obliged to have· a numbe~ of other offices out of the yet unfinished Treasury building proper, so is this office. [ Ila:,sle1·, p. 44. 14. It would be the most effective mode of clearing up any subject whatsoever, that may bo desired, and come i11 question, if the committee would be so kind to come over to the office, which is so near the Capitol, and visit all the parts of the work, as they are in activity, and constautly in evidence for every visiter. Hon. F.
MALLORY.

F. R. HASSLER. ' ' [Hassler,p. 45.

No·rE (65.)1
92. Question. Of the pointsoflatitmle and 1011gituJe thus determined, how many have been made public? Auswer. Noue; because it is not yet the proper time. [Hassler,p. 10. 29. Question. When do you propose to publish such u general account r Answer. So soon us I shall have reached the verification base ou the Chesapeake. 30. Question. When do you expect to reach tho.t point? [Ila.Mier, p. 6. Answer. In a few years. 4. Question. ls there auy objection to the pul>licatiou of definite and successive parts of the work as they may be completed, us tho map of Now York now in the engraver's hands? Answer. No, not in tho least, so soon 11s the engraving is finished.

[Hassler, p. 4.
To 4 add: It is necessary on the purt of the Government to take proper measures to give, with the publication, guaranty to the public, for theauthenticity of all that is published. (Seo answer to question 5 in my report of December, 1841.) [Hasslcr,p. 4~. "For there can, by 11Rture, not be any control upon an~' observation intrusted to an assistant, or over th~ 11ssistu11ce rendered in an observat\011, except the morn! strength of confidence." 1834-'35, Loe. No. 2, p. 374; J/assler.

74

Rep.. No.

170~

NOTE (66.)

.

14. Ques,tion by same. Have any other maps or charts been publish-0d, besides those of New Haven, Newark, and Bridgeport? [Hassler,p. 4. Answer. No other. 1. Question. Have any maps been prepared and completed, so as to be ready for publication, other than the three published ; aud if so, what? Answer. Yes: 1. A complete map of New York harbor is engraving. 2 A partial map. of the entrance of New York has been prepared and deliver~d to tJ1e Auditor for the liglit-house bureau. 3. One of the Thames river, in Connecticut, nearly ready for delivery, on order of the Secretary. 4,, One for the Topographical bureau, for the site of fortifications of the entrance of New York harbor, at Sandy Hook. 5. One of the north shore of Long Island sound, at New London, called for by the Secretary of the Treasury. The four last named were prepared for the .offices. 2. Qqestion. Is either of the eight maps above named so far correct and -complete in itself as to be of any utility in and for the localities to which it applies? Answer. To be sure ; each is complete, and of use in itself. . [Hassler,p. 4. No·rE (67.)
48. Question. There is shown by you a published chart of Newark bay, purporting to be an extract from the United States coast survey ; is there .any meridian on the map? (Annexed, and marked B.) Answer. No. 49. Quest.ion, ls the latitude or longitude of any part of it given? Answer. No. 50. Question. What is the length of Newark bay, as stated in this map, from Shuter's island to the confluence of the Passaic and Hackensack rivers? Answer. It is, by the scale of the map, five miles and· eighty-two-hundredths. Bllt the scale is an erroneous one, and was not published or 'Vtirifi.ed by the supr.rintendent. The actual distance between the two points specified is five miles and six hundred and twenty-three thousandths, -obtained by me by measuring on the original topographical map. 51. Question. Please to inspect the map of Newark bay, which is now shown to you, marked C. Answer. Itappears to be the same map, engraved from the same plate .as B; but the scale is differeut, and is at the same time erroneous. It seems to be written ~-o-h-a- instead of :nh..,., or erroneous in the proportion of 2 to 1, or about that. [ Ferguwn, p. 17. 'fo the question of the committee, "What is tl1e distance between Shuter's island and the point at the confluence of the Passaic and Hack-ensack rivers, and what the mean width of the bay of Newark?" Mr. Ferguson an11wers : · That the distance between the above points is 5.623 statute miles, and tb:e mean width of the bay of Newark 1.37 mile. That on a map of the said bay, printed at the request of the collector of Newark, the distance between Shuter's island and the point between the Hackensack and Passaic is 5.S2 statute miles; but that this map has an erroneous scale attached to it, and was not published or verified by the
'

Rep. No.

r76:

75

snperintendent ofthti survey. The map nppearsconforrnable to the original of tlw survey, but the scale given (or it is incorrect. [Fe1:guson,p. 20.
NoTE (68.) NEWARK, .IJ.pril 18, 1842. Sm: Your letter of the 16th l received this morning. I am not in possession of any map of Newark bay furnished from the coast survey, A short time after that survey was completed, l addressed the Secretary cif the Tl'Oasury, requesting such a copy, for reaso,ns then mentioucd; he referred my letter to Mr. Hassler, who replied, that the coast survey being a public work and property, such extracts should not be given.except upon cull of Congress; and such work being under his charge and responsibility, he should be called upon by the proper Department, &c. I very much regretted that it could not be furnished~ as om; vessels were ~ubject to repeated accidents and dela~s, by reason of the shoals, which could have been avoided by such information. I presume that Mr. H. would be willing to facilitate any mode you may take to procnre such extract, as he ox.: pressed himself to me. I am, dear sir, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant, ARCHER GIFFORD. Hon. Jom1. B. AYcR~Go. (P. 21.)
DEAR

NoTE (69.)· The following is the history of these maps, or of the original and copies: By reference to House Journal 25th Cong., 3d session, p. 400, it will be seen that, on the 28th January, 1839, Mr. Aycrigg submitted the following reso\mion : ''That the Secretary of the Treasury be directed to furnish this House with a report and extract from the coast survey, containing Newark bay, in the State of New Jersey, and the burs in its vicinity." January 30, 1839, the Secretary of the Treasury writes to Mr. Hassler : (N. B. This letter is found among the documents of the Department, from which this copy was obtained:) "I enclose, hel'owith, a copy of a. resolution of tho House of Representatives of the 28th instt\llt, calling upon this Department to ' furnish the House with a report. n.nd extract from the coast survey, coutaining Newark bay, in tho State of New Jersey, and the bars in the vicinity.' I will thank you to have the information called for prepared n.ud reported to mo as soon as may be practicable." ' February 11, 1840, the Secretary of the Treasury says: "I have the honor to transmit, herewith, a chart prepared by the superintendent of said work."-(Houso Doc. No. 182, p. I, 3d sess. 25th Congress.) February 9, 1839, (same page,) Mr. Hassler says to the Secretary: "Herewith I have the honor to forwarll to you the chart of Newark bay, extracts from the coast survoy work called for by a resolution of Congress, and your letter rel a.ting to· the same. I join also a copy of the printed report made upon that subject by Lieutenant Gedney~ at the time of handing in the first copy of. this map." (N. B. This first copy is on file, but was never published, and has 11othing to do with the present question.) 'l'he following relalos to it:

76

Bep.

~o.

r10.

NoTE (69 bis.)
December 30, Mr. Gillet, from the Committee on Commerce, reported the following resolution, which was laid on the table one day under the rule, viz : Resolved, That the Secretary of rhe Treasury be directed to communicate to this House a survey of the bar and o.bstructions to the navigation of the Passaic river below the city of Newark, in the State of New Jersey, made by Lieutenant Commandant Gedney, together with his plan and estimate for the re1noval of the obstructions to. the navigation of said river. (House Journal 2d sess. 24th Cong., p. 149.) January 3, 1837. The resolution reported by Mr. Gillet, from the Committee on Commerce, in relation to the navigation of Passaic river, was agreed to by the House. (House Journal 2d scss. 24th Cong., p. 162.) ' Mr. Hassler to the Secretary of the Treasury, 26th .January, 1837, says: "According to the request of your letter of the 14th instant, an extract from the works of the survey of the coast of the part near Newark, New. Jersey, has been made, and is herewith presented to your Department, by Lieutenant Gedney, of the navy." (18~6-'37, Doc. No. 110~ v_ol. 3, p. 1.)

NOTE_ (70.)
MoNDAY,

May 30, 1842.

Present: Mr. Mallory, Mr. Aycrigg.

Mr. W. J. Stone's examination..
1. Question. Map marked exhibit C being shown, witness is asked if he recollects the map. Answer. Yes. 2. Question. Who engraved the map?, Answer. I did. :J. Question. ls that an exact copy of the original sent to you from the House of Representatives? Answer. It is. 1. Question. How long did it take you to engrave and print this map? Answer. In from seven to ten days it was fully executed and delivered to the House. 5. Question. With what person connected with the coast survey did you "l!:ommunicate at the time you engraved this map? Answer. Mr. Hassler. I called on him, and had a conversation on the subject. 6. Question. Exhibit B being shown and examined, ·he is asked if that is an impression from the same plate. Answer. Yes. 7. Qnestfon. Will" yon please to .examine exhibit B, and see if there is any differenl!e betwee11 thi!l and exhibit C ( Answer. The only difference that l can perceive is, that another scale has been put in the place of the one engraved by myself, which was copied from the original. ·

nep. No.

110~

7t

8. Question. In what manner was that nlteration made?' Answer. By cutting out the engraved scale and inserting one with the p~n. The engraved ,scale on exhibit C is 3 inches to the mile; 'while the scale inserlcd \Vith the petr is nh"O"th, being, in facr, 6 inches to the mile, iustead of 3. 9. Question. Huve yoi.i the original extract sent to yon from the office of the coast survey? Answer. I have. (P. 41.) ·6. Question. Please to look at the map hereto nnne":ed, and marked A. William J. Stone, and state whether it is the original mnp sent from the lfonse to yon, and from which yon engraved the map of Newark bay, ns mentioned in the first part of your testimony. · Answer. It is. 7. Question. What is the scale on that manuscript map? Answer. Of thre£i inches to the mile, as on the map 1 engraved. (P. 41.)
1

.NOTE (70 bis.)

The scale on the copperplate copy, and the map itself, are both shorter than the origi11al, but in the same proportion as the original. This is neither an erro1· of the engraver, nor can it be avoided. The difference arises from the shrinking of the pnpcr about one per cent. (as it appears) 011 tlrying, nfrer tho impression is taken. All that is necessary is that the scale shall be in prpportion to the map.-A.
NOTE (71.) COAST SURVEY OF THE UNITED SI'A1'E8.

1. In the last discussion upon tho appropriations, it has plcasetl-~r1lr. Aycrigg, and one more of the members of a committee of five Representatives in Congress, to throw out the broadcast accusnlion, thut I wns 111011tally aud physically i11competent ro that task which I bn \'C now performed for ten ycnrs, with full approbntion ond even praise, on the part of the men of science of Europe uud of this country. · ~. This statement wns made, not 011ly without producing any pl'oof, but also iu full contradiction to abun<latit facts, and without producing the l'eport which the com111ittee is bound to make to Con~rcss with the documents i11 support, namely: the examination of myself aud ussistu11ts upon the coast survey, a11d my report asked by the \'ery member upon my works for the establishment of uniform standards of weights and measures for the U11i1cd States. 3. As it is irnpossihle that an nssomblyof the representatives of a whole nation should possibly be guided by more empty words without any proof, it appear~ 11ot necessary to go into au actual l'cfutation of an assertion, the nullity of which cnn be well dismisi1Pd, uml will be proved, by Congress culling for the cxu.minutious, &c., quoted under 2d. So mnch the rather, as luckily my well known stare of mental and physical capacity cannot possihly de pond upon the decision of a commi11co of Congress, nud are uow in full gond state, ns tl1ey have been observed by the gentlemen who have favored the coast s11rvoy office with their visit.

9'8

J.lep. N ~· 170.

4. I will, therefore, limit myself here to two statements made under the .denomination of facts, but whi.ch are related in a manner completely different from -what they actually are. 5. The wrong scale upon a map of Newark bay, by Lieutenant Commandant Gedney. This fact stands thus: 6. When Lieutenant Gedney was !Ounding Newark bay, he communicated uncautiously, without any communication with me, and. against the regular order of the work, a chart of his soundings, to some persons press_iug him for it. When informed of it, I had to call him to the regular order of the work, that ·nothing should be deliverecJ. unknown to me, and wil'hout orders previously obtained from the Treasury Department; this to get caused some delay, while local contendiug interests in Newark were impa. tient. This Mr. Aycrigg reproached to me, in the committee, that he had ' so long to ask for it. When the whole summer's work wns brought in the .bureau, Lieuteuaut Gedney had a map made as desired, and more extensive, under his direction, wherein the fraction of the scalo was mistaken, which map was never exhibited to rne until at the lime of tlte committee, when he complained to me that sucli a g?·eat crime wai1 made to him out of an accidental miswriling of a fraction by oue of his subaltern officers. I believe he then told mo that the error was corrected; I properly remonstrated with. him that this accusation was the reward for Ids hurrying a work with. unreasonable 'kl1patience, and without any communication with me. Mr. Aycrigg, who takes up this subject as a11 accusation against me, is curnptetely aware of every particular, as Lieuteuant Gedney explained it all to hinuself, he can therefore not bo otherwise but perJectly aware that ho does ~e a wilful illjustice.-[Hassler's Pamphlet, December 23, 1842.

Non; (71 bis.) The following extracts will show bis peculiarities as an individual. They . have been collecteJ from the documents, while exarniuiug them for more important information. They are given, 11ot because they show the peculiarities of Mr. Hassler as an individual, but as indicating the disposition of one who has long held one of the most important offices in the country, and who, by some unaccountable meaus, has produced on the minds of many the impression, not only that he is identified with the coast survey, which must eeas1-1, of necessity, if be be detached from it, but, also, that he is peculiarly fitted for tbe station. The House will be able to judge whether these extracts indiclito the cool, deliberate, common sense that is required in conducting au extensive operation like that intrmited to Mr. Hassler. His disputes with the Secretary of the Treasury arc not introduced to show that he desired more pay, .but for the other matters that the extracts contain. (72) · In 1836, it will be seen that the President bad called the" attention of Congress to the entire subject of the coast survey, as well as the weights and measures, including future as well as past compensation, and the gen; eral auperviaio11 of their future progres.t." Jn 1837, the Secretary of the Treasury (Hon. Levi Woodbury) writes a plain business communication, such as his duty required of him as a public officer. But,,because he does not immediately accede to all of Mr

Rep. ·No ·. ~iro.

''19

Hasslerfs demands, he 'is answered in such style that we might ·have imagined Mr. Hassler would have been immediately dismissed for disrespect to his ·superior. (73) · · We find an "Enumera:tion of sacrifices which I made for the coast survey"-1836-'7, vol. 1, Doc. 13, pages 21, 22, 23, 24. A lecture on republican government, m~xt article. Next article repeats his de111ands for higher pay, July 30, 1836. Next article is a communication from the Secl'etary of the Treasury~ August 2, 1836, iu which he says: "But, in closirig this communication, I feel bound, in frankness, to apprize you that the President will, on his return, be req~sted to excuse the lwaµ of this Department from the further supervision of the subject of the coast survey, and to devolve the care of it again either on the Navy Department or some· board of officers with ample powers and greater leisnre to supervise a work so important in itself, and so frmtful in difficulties llnd embarrassments." P. 40. Page 42, Mr. H. says he cuunot go out until he gets arrearages paid up, a~1d $6,000 for futnre. Page 44, :l\fr. Woodbury answe'rs : " If yon are not able or willing to proceed wilh the survey in the manner suggested, and on the terms above stated, until Congress can act on the whole subject of compensation, it is desirable the Department should be upprized of it at the earliest convenient day." · Page 46, Mr. Hassler says: "It is a curious phenomenon, that while from nil the better-informed public, both of Europe and of this country equally, I l'eneive almost daily testimonials of the interest and value put in the work in which I um engaged," &c., "the public Department under which it stands should refuse every proper means, and propose every moans of destruction." Again: " Di!liculties never subdued mo in my life, though I can allirm that I have subdued difficulties. My means are · moral and intellectual ; that is, stronger than money, or money considerations." From Mr. JJnssler's remu1ks in relation to ouc of the questions put to him by the committee, (74) it appears that he dmws a very broad line of distinction between the industry reqnired of the "hireliugs by the. hours," who must do their full day's work for their dollar or fifty cents, while it is a disgrace to the scieutific man, who receives his ten or his twenty dollars per day from the public Treasury, to inquire whether he does a reasonable amount of work, or whether he receives ?- high salary without returning an ~qui valent. The conclusion drawn by Mr. Hassler is not very evident. (75) Ho appears to have his own peculiar modes of doing almost every thing; whether they are better than the plans pursued by others, (76) we have no means of judging, unless he will inform the scientific world what his peculiar forms are. (77) On reading this remark, we would hardly imagine t.hat the article contained in note (19) came from the same iudividual, showing th.at nearly the whole of Europe had been triangulated. The chairman· of the committee, in consequence of the desire of Mr. Stone, the engraver, to see the chart, before he could give 1111 estimate of the expense of engraving, (79) gave him a note to Mr. Hassler. The peculiar reception of Mr. Stone is described by himself. (80) The appended'

'8,0

Rep . ..No .. ,110.

Jetter was next sent in; (81) and on the next page we have a reference to the same matter. (82) And, !l.~ain, we have l\'Ir. Hassler's remarks on,the same subject, in his ~ircular, (over his own name,) sent to the members. (8~~) The fact men. tioued by himself, that Mr. Stone "measUr<'d it with n two-foot rule," shows that his "examination" referred entirely to the expense of en· I graving. · We 11eed hardly stop to inquire whether a mau of Mr. Stone's wellknown abilities as an engraver, would, under any ordinary circumstances, allow that he could not put 011 copper all that Mr. Hassler can put on paper. (81) . Still Mr. J-J asslc:r asserts that bis otfice is the sam1 ,as the Treasury oftice, .and his work open to inspection. (64) Would his superior, the Secretary of the Treasury, mP.et a note from the chairman of a regular committee -0f the House of Representatives in this manner? ' Mr. Hassler reads us several extra lectures on the impropriety of our conduct. (85) It appears, also, that Mr. Hassler finds great difficulty in agreeing with the persons respecting his operations on their land. (86) The appended note will show that "they do these things better in France.'' (87.)
NoTE (72.)

"This amounl ($1,500 for expenses] does.lmt scantily cover the halt of the difference between the life of a stationary home and that which I have to leud in that work, which is, of course, what is to be compe11su1ed by this allowance." (1835-6, vol. 1, Doc. 2, p. 384, Hassler's report. "In consequence of a difference of views exisLing between the President and the superintendent, (Mr. F. H. Hassler,) in regard to an allowance of arrearagcs of pay claimed by him for himself and assistants, as also for µn i11creas1~d rate of compensation for the future, this Department was directed to bring the subject to the notice of Congress," &c. "Congress having adjourned without taki11g any legislative action in the matter," &c., "con11eqnently he [the President] b.ts, iu his annual messnge, i11vited the attention of Congress to the eqtire subject of the coast snrvey, as \\'Pll as of the weights and measures, including future as well as past compensations, aud the general supervision of their futnre progress." , [183G-':n, vol. I, Doc. 13, p. l, Sec. 1'reas.
NOTE

(73.)

Read the whole of Mr. Hassler's letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, Tho extracts would he too voluminous; but he complains that the Secretary refuses to propose an alteration in the amount of his extra puy for expenses, u11less vouchns are prodnced,.or the opinion~ ofpersonsacq1rnioted with sl!ch cxpei1ses arc given, and calls it "inquisitorial," .H ns novel as it would be unbearable by a11y man," and hopes that tho "summer's campaign may not he crippled, like the former ones have been, by clilficultics which hitherto it has been the unfortunate habit to throw iu the way of the work every spl'iug."
1836-'37, vol. I, Doc. 13, April 30, 183G.

f

,..

·

,

t'!

·Rep/No. '!I 70.
NoTE (i4;)'

St

"5th; .I \Va's asked how many hours the assir.itants worked pe~ 'dtl.y; r answered, as many as the day allows, (tlie work cannot "be ma'cle'in office hours.) This addition, l believe, has been omitted to· be writtericl,ow:n; iu. fact, all my'aseist11nts, ·like I, work from interest for the work, !!-~d ·not ~s. _ hirelings by tlie hours, it would be a disgrace to treat th~ actors in a scientific work with such illiberality.", [llass{er,p. 63.
~

NoTE_(75.)

" Without the constant attcpda,1ce to my works, at any hotirs that ciln be used· for them, my task would be positively inexecutable; this is evidently the state of the establishment, and the works produced." [H9ssler,p. 50.
NOTE

(76.)

"The ciilCulation of the triangles in my work gives , in ultimate result the latitude and longitude of each point of the triangle,_priinary nnll secondary, according to my special fo~m [corrected page 60, 'formula'] for the work." [Hassler,p.10. "Upon the. station of \Vensel mountain, all the means for. astro. nomical determinations and azimuths were united, and tt regular ..$ystem. of these observations executed with its apNopriated combi11atior.1s, npon. peculiar methods which I made and prescribed, and which. succeeded to satisfaction." [ llas~ler, p. 49.

NoTE (77.)

''It is very natural that in this, like in every other subject of science or knowledge, the acqnirei:nents and imr!ro~em~nts are .gradual j they develop themsel.vcs as the occas1~n fo,r th~m is given, and with a con.~id~i'~blp and proportional consun'l.mat1on ·of tune. So much so, that even m Europe this branch of science is not so much sprcuu, :u it is pretend¢d to be, nlrea-:dy in this co·mtry, whel'C it has never yet been employed at, all; for the detached small snrveys, mnde so abundantly, do not come nt nU in com. parlson, nor under the principles 6f science, which is absolutely required such an .extensive work 11:s the ~oas~ s,11n·ey, especially in the fotm and · m the locality of tho earth Ill wluch it lle3." [Hassler, p. 52 ·.
1

for

No-rE (78.)
95. Question. Did the l<'rench, in the triangnlation of their country, use mixed geodetical and nstrono'mical observations? · Answer. Not in the form in which I have Stf\ted in the fir1't part of my written explanation. · · [Hassler, p. 10. 26. Question. Has there been nny ditlicnlty in procuring suitable points for observation as far as the 'lril\hl triangnlation has proceeded ? , Answer. Yes; since we entered the vnlley of the Delawnre. 27. Qnestion. Where first? , · Answer. At Mount Rose, near Princeton, in New Jorsoy; some in open...' ing the line from Newtown; then at Willow Grove nud at Stony Hilli

6

.

~P· . J . . ,No. . ,17() · . ·

some difficulty in connecting Mouut Holly with the point below; a good deal at Yards. These obstructions dotild not have occupied more than five mo.nth!!. ., .. . , · [Jiassler, p.~15 . . 66.. QP'!:l$1i6n .. How loug before the 'survey will .reach C!!pe Hii:tteras.? AJ'ls'we1\, Jt'i~ ir~possibl·e to say-..:..it is too v1J,g¥e a,gn·~s~. ·· ... 67. '.Qtjest\9r1. Have you any personal knowled;ge ofthe. Jocatiori of. the Southern'.ccl!ist ? · . , , · . · .· An.s\ver,.'.l have never been any furthe.r south thaq .NorfoUC, , , 68; Question. You have said that. it was difficult to find suitable elevation on both sjdes of the Delaware, which cause prevented the main triangulation from keeping up with· the secondary, (No. 40 :) how do you . propo~e to ob vial~. sim. ilar ~itfi~nh)es .. ~n th.e fiat coas.t, of the South·? , . .Ans.,ver. By care and ass1duitr, and by the methods use~ on .the Jersey sea coa~t. · . , ·' 69: Question. Is that work on the Jersey sen coast a primary or a second. arv triangulation ? ·Answer. It is secondary triangulation. 70:, Q1,1estion. What is the peculiarity of the.method~ nse<l.on. the· Jersey sea cp~_st, 'where there is a deficiency Pf natura.1 eleva1io11s? . An8\V.el'1 -ay a~apting the triangulatio~ to ariy. locality, \Vhich may. be found favorab'le. · . · 7 L -'QtJ,estlon; Y9µ do not ,specify any of tho means you propose to ;recur ·to at th.e SO't.tth; iu the. absence of 1int11ral cli.Jvaiions. Do you decline to s~ate w~a~.they.are?. . ~n;s\Ver.,.N9; .. 72. Que·suon. What are they, the11 ? Answer: By mixed astronomical and gcodetical observations. 73, Questio11. Why were not such means used to overcome the impediments to the completion of the main triangulation on the Dela ware? .i\nswer. Because they. won Id not apply with propriety. There are .better means. · 74.· : question. Whllt are tl~o.se better meD;ns ·? , . A!}~wer.. By meeting those loc,11:litiei;; by triangula~ion Crom tlw s,0uth side of the· l<:!c~lity, · . . , . , ·. . . . ... · 7~. Question. You say that th~ .pccnhar methods -by w}H<~l"\ you, .propose to overcome tl1e difficulties on the .Soutl)ern .;:oast arc mi:rnd astrpJJomical and g~ocleticq.lobservations; ar.e not sil<;:h th,e general meaus. usecl every where in the survey? .. · , Answer.· The means of both rftc differcnt fo the two cases, I-Ia.rs/er, pp. s, 9·
1

·

W As1fr:1rn'roN Cl'l'Y, llfarclt 30, 1842.

'

l must: add a more datailed answer to tharquestian which :a$kcd me "How I would proceed in th.e- Sot\ther11 co[l.st, where marshes,:woods, .&c., presented .peculiar impedi1;nents ?" .I ~mswcred: to.it: ":By mixed.as.tronomica"i.a..n~ ".g.Elo~41!tical observations." .This question WllS .followed lJy tha·l: .H ls,thatnot1 moro o.r less Jhe case w1thal\.tho.coast1survcy ?" · . This question showed ·that· tho natu.re ·Of· the ·sciei~tific principles ·to be "f>plicdand ~udicated b"y myan~.werw:er~ µ11known. l must th7raforae:rplqin: what is called, 111 rn~thcmatical practice, MIXEP as-tronom1cal an.4 gqodetj~al observa1ions1 is, when· botll these elements coucur iTr the same indi , -..·iduul deterrn~~ru.J.lion; this is the case in the application of a problem ol
1

.

.Rep.· No. ·170.

83

practical mathematics, which I have applieg in Switzerland· and· in 'ihis country, on Weasel mountain, (to the full knowledge of my assista'nts 1) to o?tain tbe junetions iof·my works of .18'17. w'ith those of.1sss, in _the ~egh~ nmg, when I had not yet a new base hne ·nor' suffictent'nngles; xnva:s equally. suceessfh 11 in bll>t.h :eases; · .. It consists in "one goedetic. line b'eing given in position ·and length, the latitude of either point being· known, the latHu!'.}e and ttie angle; the"~iiie subtends from a third point, being observed, togethenvith the azimttth: of either end point, to determine the place Of obser\Tation:'" Froirt sndh a. result new connexions are then opened further onwo.rds; other similar problems ma.y be· made. . · · " This is what I was beginning to eJtprcss \vhe11 l' was stoppea, under the denomination of eutering·into arguments; which Mr. Cushing·refosed to bear. ' That I shonld expose it from its elementary principles, is '\~hat! liiti sure th.a· committee cannot intend, because it is a problem which, joining both branches of science, would require long deductions of principles-, almost an elementary work, for persons not acqnainted' with the science. . In tirian~ulation; the two kin<ls· of. obs~rva1ions, astto11dmicaJ .and· ·ge·odet.:. 1cal, are dlsconnected; each operation is separate, and they If~ only 'Ct>m:. pared to draw concl11sio11s upon one 'nnother; for a new, ditretent result, required to place the survey in general to its proper place upon earth; therefore the astronomical parts are only made at a few properly selected places, and \V.ith general views for the work, not for details, like in the other case, as I have stated iii my answer to question 5, article 3d, of my repo1·t of'Decerubor 2, 1841. ' F; R. H ASS~ER.
i3. Question. On what part of the coast, North or South, can the .work · be carried ou most easily ? :\usJ.ver. At the;} North, by reason of tho natme of the coast. . [Fn·gU1011,.p. 1:9. " The direc.tiop in which the first .extension of the work was, by prefer.; ence, to be made," &c.,. was "that I might be enabled to present, at as early period as possible, an nctually executed full scheme and example· of 1he work. For th(:!se views the coutinuation of the work eastwardly) over Connecticut and Long Island, presented, evidently, advantages over that sontherly, through Jersey," &c.. [I-luss/~r's Report, May 17, 1834... '35, ool; l,p. 367. NoTE (79.)
13. Question. How long will it take to engrave the tnap of the harbor of New York, and what will it cost? ' . Answer. I oaunot ·answer \Vithont exnmining the char.t. . The chairman the~ gave· Mr. Storl'e a ·note to Mr. Hasgler, of the following tenor, as near as remembered, viz: req11esting Mr. Hassler fo permit !\Ir. Stone to. examine the mannscript 'chart of the harbor of Now· York. The committee then ndjoumed. · · [8lo11e, page 42.

NoTE (80.)

15. Question. Did you,· ~s ·requested by the ccmmittee> call on Mr. Ha10sler, and present the note of the chairman ?

AnsweCr. I did. 16. Question. What occurred? Answer. The interview was so disagreeable, that I would ra;ther not >describe it, unless it be insisted on by the committee. 1'he chairman therefore propounded to the cominittee the following question : Shall Mr. Stone be required to state what occurred in his interview :with Mr. Hassler? and it was determined in the affirmative-Mr. Mallory, Mr. Aycrigg, and ~~r. Cushing, present, and voting. The question being again propounded to Mr. Stone, he answered as fol-·

.lows: I went to Mr. Hassler's office, and knocked at the door.

A servant showed me into his room, and asked me to sit down, and in a minute or .two Mr. Hassler came iu. I then handed him Mr. Mallot·y's letter. Mr. H. read it, and immediately fell into a violent rage, and swore that I should not see the map, neither should the committee have it. After much rudenes~ and violent language, both towards the committee and me, Mr. Farley came in, aud Mr. H. handed him the letter. After some further conversation, Lieutenant Page came in, and Mr. H. showed him the letter, and further conversation ensued. At length Mr. H. permitted me to examine the ~ap, whicli;l did ; and on my departure, he handed me a Jetter for the chairman of the committee, which I delivered to Mr. Aycrigg. This letter is annexed, and marked C, F. Mallory. · [Stone, page 43.
NOTE (81.)

W ASlIINGTON, May 30, 1842.

Sm: The unprovoked insult offered to me, by sending the ·engraver 'Stone to me to inspect the work of the coasL survey in the map of New ¥ ork, is too much, as well for the powers of the committee, as for the feelings of an honest mao. You know that the maps of the coast survey cannot be engraved but :in the office under my own inspection. You know that the map in q ues· tion is already cut up in plates, two of which are under the engraver's bands, nearly finishe.d; two others just beginning; for two more the drawing is nearly finisht>d; and two more are half finished drawings. . Yon know that the engraver Stone is in no way qualified to do snch work, nor that l could be made responsible for any of his doings. · Hence you cannot otherwise but conclude that the measure you begin is destructive to the work, there(ore to the execution and expenses hitherto incurred, therefore directly opposite to the aim professed by1he committee to favor the coast survey work. No man can expect that I, who am answerable for the work, could be ~ompelled to give the final execution in the hands of a man in whom I Jiave not the slightest reason to have any confidence whatever. I consider the sending of Stone to in.tpect my worlc, as he said first, as .an unmerited insult, and I am certain that every member of the com1mittee, placed in my s'itna1io11, would consider it so. With best respects and good wishes, your obedieut servant,

F. R. HASSI4ER .
.Hon.
FnANc1s MALLORY,

Chairman of lite Commillee on lite Coa.~t Sut·vej;. ·

[Page 4 7.

'.Rep. No. 170.
NOTE

(Si!.)

I suppose Mr. Stone will have made his report upon his examination of the manuscl'ipt map of New York, for which he hns been sent to me in· the· name of the committee. [Hassler, page 48 ·. No·rE (83.)
12. The letter of Mr. Mallory, reqnesting me lo give the map of New·Yorlc to Mr. Stone, lo examine, (pl'ease conshlt .Johm;on's dictionary for the real meaning of this word)-nn operation which would reqnire, of conrse, a good mathematician, conversant with the principles and practice of th6' works of the coast snrvey ; I felt very hard to be subjected to the exami· nation of a man whom I know i11competent for that tusk. I 1wen told him dir~ctly "you arc. uot capable to put this map upon copper;" he immedi-ately answered'' I know that very well." THE .MAP WAS, uow1,;v1rn, SHOWN 'J'O IIIlll Il\IMEDIATELY, in presence of r,everal assistants, .and he measured it with a t\\·o-foot rule, as if to ordcrthe coffin for it of proper size. Those of my nssistnnts who iwerc prm;ent at the time, were as much displeased with the circumstaucc as myself, and· l found it necessary to state 011 that occasion, a limit which I had hoped wonld not be slopped over; Stone himself felt tliat lie ltnJ o\'erstoppe<l Jii,., liuiits. [Hassler.
NOTE

(84.)

4. Question. Is them any <lifl1cnlty in procming competent map ·engravers in the United States? Answer. None. 5. Question. Do yo1.1 know of any special superiority of Germnn engravers over those of thP. United States? ~ Answer. No; I consider the American workmen better, cleaner, and' more rapid. [Stone, page 42.

No'l'E (85.) To 37 o.nd ~18 add : These are sufi1cie11tly explained as for tho fact,.
bttl it must be added hero, that the speaking disreputably nnd inimically

against the coast survey work in Congress, occasions ignorant met1 in the· country, who read these things, to lay impediments in the way of the work, and to ill-treat us, which is a great loss to the work, and its economy. · [ Hassle1·, page 50. r 21. The attempt to find causes for change in my arrJ.ugement, by theresolution of the last Congress session, nnd the present committee, has a\~ read}' cal!sed a great damage. [l-lassle1·ipage 55. To 94 to 98, inclusive : These answers I consider as self-evidcnt 1 and entirely of the domain of the science, in one respect, ancl of the decision the Goverment in another; I have said upon it whnt was to be sO:id by rne, in its proper pince, in my l'eport of last December. If the work is not carried on, with all the means that science dictates for its execution, it i.twor.~e tlwn useless, and discrerlilrzble. I consider myself always bounJ to snch a course, as I have hitherto pursued, and have found myself nl· ·

of

S6

Rep. Ntf. .170:

ways approved in this view, by . tbose men best able to judge, and by thos0 in the proper stations to decide iqwn it. [Hassler, page fl l. To 1.20 .add : I3ut tbe constant persecution to which the work has been exposed"' and. especially now i's, impede its progress very much; there is a dam.age now incmred by the propositions of the last Congress session, and the present investigations, which have been occasioned by it, of positively upwards of S5o,ooo, in delay of the work, and accessories; besides the discouragement occasioned by it, in all those persons who arc engaged i11 tilt! wo1'lt, hy·,thcir seeing their liberal exertions rewarded by throwing out suspicions against lhcm, these occasion a still greater damage. The discredit thrown out in the public occai;ions impediments with the people in the country, with whom we come in contact, they consider themselves equallr authorized to ill-treat us, w}iich makes tbe work difficult, nn<l increases tlie , expenses beyond reason, to no good pmpos~, and subject to uncertainty.

[P. 64.J
Non: (86.).

.

F. R. HASSLER.

To 50 an~51 ad<l: It must be remarked upou these articles that, the putting me in jail at Mount Holly by a warrant of Judge Payton, of Trenton, given upon tlie oath of a cle:rgyman of the name of Brown, who swore his damage was ove,r $200, because l had l'efnsed to pay, at first presentation, instantly, a bill presented to me by a, so called, Judge Haywood, for $25 damages, because I found it overrated anc.l asked an impartial estimate, to legitimate me to direct the payment to be made, (the accounting officer being absent;) t\iat such n circumstance, I say, l considere1l as neither decent nor agreeable ; such acts go to the direct overthrow of the work, the court concern following; it cost both sides useless, but I had to stand the disagreement, and the Treasury Department l111d to defend thn suit, which awarded the reverend Mr. Brown wit\1 ditliculty, as n hig\ie;,t extreme, the $25 claimed, most of the jury voting first for $10, $15, or $20, instead of the hundredth which be had ~worn to. It was necessary to· stand tliis legal tra1Jsac1ion in self-defence-the documents upon it can be exhibited. At Yards the same impudence is uow \'epcatcd, damti.gcs asked of morl' than double the value, and impudent letters written upon it, &c. Such thi11g3 not only cost nio11ey, but have a tendency to give appre-· hensions upon the safety of our station poims, 1111d signals, to the great a!lnoyance. of the work. To 52 add: We have been obliged to make n special agreement witlt the ow:ner of tbe Jund of the station next after Yards, IC avoid difficulties it" possib1e, by a contract for the use of the land fur three years. [Hassler, page 5 !.

Non: (87.)
"We recommend to the engineers the greatest reserve in the means to bf! If it shall becom" indispensable to trim .cut .down certain trees, they should at first propose to treat with the propr.ietors by mu~llal agreement, an4 to offer to. them a suita.ble indemnity ; in case of difficulty they should refer to the local administration, -and even, Jf it. be necessary, to the superior authorities." (General orders for the con-

Cll'\ployed to unmask the signals.

or,

·duct of the French triangt\lation, t'rom '''~1emorial-du Depot de: la Gptue," vol. 6, page".21.) ·
:N9T~ (SS.)
4; ·Question. What proportion of inslrnmeuts have you l1ad made-or repaired at the office in Washington_? . . Ahswer. J'hnve seldorn had any sextauts or glasses repaired th.ere; but a large part Of the drawing inSlrll!llUlltS have btteU made there, to the v,.i}ue or cost of say Ssoo at any private establishment, that is, during,tbe wl10le tim~ I have been in the survey. . rBtake,page 40. For e;ii:penses of the inst:rumeilt maker's shop, iricludjng tl1e . co'rripensation of the perso1is employed therein, :md the cost of tools and materials purchased for same $2,318 11 For c:omp~nsation and expenses of the persons r.mplpyod in engraviug the chart of the harbor of New York 2,0ll l4 · . [Swift, p(l.ge 28. 18. Qnestion. What amount of work or repairs have you had·done in the office here to instruments? Answer. Nothing but the mounting of one telescope, w,hich cam~ from Europe without a stand. I have had no difticnlty iu obtai11i,1g repairs e\sew'hore, if ueeded. · · 19; Question. Should yon think it necessary to have a mechauician with you in the field ? . Answer. To measure the base line it might be desirable; not otherwise.
[Blun(' pa!{e 2.3.

57. Q11estio11. \Vhere arc the instruments 11scd by yon, repaired? Answer. At different places, but gcnerully at the office of the survey l1ern. SS. Question. Haye you had any difllculty in procnring repairs l;\t other places? Answer. I have scarcely ever had occasion for repiiirs ; I .should. t.hink 110texceeding five dollars in amotlllt since 1833, when I cntere.d tbe. i:iurvey. All my instruments arc of Emopean nmnufucture. They are go,od instruments. [Fc1·g11so't~; page 18. I OS. Quest ion. Cannot American engravers pnt 011 copper all map eugra vi1,g which can he put 011 paper? Answer. No. [Huss/er, page 11. 15. Question. What amount of repairs of instruments have you had <lone at the office of the coast survey? Answer. I cannot., illy. 16. Qur.stion. Have yon had other repairs done elsewhere.; and if so, by whom, anq to 'vhat amount ? Answer. I have had repairs done for our, or my, party, the 'ast yeo.r, to the amount of forty or fifty dollars, by Mr. Montandon, .!!.nd by ·.George rnunt. of New York, it having been convenient to have this d~ne on the 11pot there. . [Gedney, pue .38. 102. Question. How mnny plates nre now in the.hands of the;elli~aver? Answer. Of actual copperplates, two. . 109. Question. Do these contain thf.'1 whole map you are now gettiogi:eaay for publication ? ·

Answer. Nq; the m~p of Ne~v York. harbor will cover ei~ht,such plates.. 104. Question. Why are not more preparing for pnblicat10n? Answer. They ar~iu work; in a few days we can cut off a few moie.
105. Question. How many engravers have you in employ? Answer. Two ; I would have more if I 'had the money. 106. Question. H.ow long have these two heen employed, and at what f'alary? ' Answer. Since last January or December; one at $1,800, and the other at $1,300, per atmum. 107. Question. Where did you procl!lre the copper for the above engraving, and where the engravers? , Answer. The copperplates userl were procured from Keim, in Philadel-· phia; the engravers from Hamburg, because they were the best, and best recommended. [Hassler, p. 11.

A copperplate printing press has also been procured, which has been· employed hitherto, and will, also, for some time yet be employed, for the necessary intermediate proof ~beets, by which the grudnal progress of the· work is successively tried and directed, with some improvements which, will be added to it, it will then also serve for the ultimate execution of the final printing of the plates. These operations require just as much the constant attention, and the eye of the superintendent, as auy other parts of the works of the survey itself, therefore the whole must necessarily be carried on in the office of the coast survey itself, by an appropriated establishment. Proper time, care, and an adequate portion o( the appropriation, must of r.onrse be devoted to it, and much attention ancl time is required to procure thfl various materials, as· copperplates, paper, and others, of that suptlrior quality, which ca11 aloifo considered as satisfactory for n work of the character which the coast survey shall, also in its outwards appear .. ance, present to the public. [1842-'43, Doc ..No. 23,p. 3. When, in 1832, the coast survey began again, it was fonnd necessary that an estabHshment should be in it: to enable to keep the instruments: required in it, al ways in good repair, not only, bnt also to construct entirely new 011es; for this a dividing engine was evidently required, as the necessity to recur to any mechanician, not habituated to the wants of the coast survey work, would never give results appropriated to our use, and keep the work itself back by delays, which would he out of our control, and very costly. · Therefore the acqnisilion of such an engine was immediately authorized:· by the President, and in consequence it was ordered immediately, and upon my plan of the modified construction, which I have just described. Mr. Ttoughton, aRd Mr. Simms, whom he had in the mean time associaied with himself, received the order to that effect ; but Mr. Trougblon died before. the engine was finished, and it ultimately arrived here in thecourse of last summer, after a delay, which affords again a proof: that,. when a wor.k is fo he done, requiring mathematical accuracy to u. high degree, and to an honorable useful result, the time to be consumed for it, can· impossibly be limited, as little as the extreme care and assiduity. The engine is unique in its kind in tliis country, and of great value even for the general progress of the art of the mechanicians in this country, be-· Eides the services the coast snrvcy will derive from it. ·

uc

(1842-'43, JJoc. No. 23,p. 1.

Since then, the works. for the balances intended for lhe State Governments, have principally occupied the. mecl~uical part of the etstablisbmeut.the final adjustment of the dry capo.city measures, of half bushels, will, as I have stated there, be begun as soon as the season will be favorable for· it, their mechanical execution is complete. (1842-'43, Doc. No. 23, p. ·5 ·.

No1'E (S!J.)
23. Question. Can good copper for engraving be procured in this country?-

Answer. Yes. 24. Que.st.ion. Have you had any prnctice us an engraver? Answer. Yes. 25. Question. Can impressions be taken from a plate in au npfinished' state, to show the progress of the work? Answer. Yes. 26. Question. Can imprcssi-gns be taken from the plates now engraving. in the survey? . Answe.r. Yes, without injury to them. "27. Question. How long will it take to furnish tho eight plates of theharbor of New York, with the present force, at the rate it now goes on? Answer. I cannot state by conjPcture. I should think about throe years. 2s. Question. Is it not possible to have the work done accurately and more rapidly than at present, if more hau<ls were put on the work? Answer. Yes. [Blunt, page 23. No·r:i,: (!JO.) The works of the coast survey have, since my report of 2<l Der.ember of last year, continued in all the diffArent branches, with steadiness and as11iduity, the same us has always been habitual, on the purt of every one engaged in the work, notwithstanding the difficulties arising from the nature, of th.e ground, and other causes, which ho.vo required increased µ.ttention~, and from the intermittent fevers', which have more or less attacked every party of the work at different times. This latter difficulty being local, and well known to increase in propol'tion as the work proceeds southerly, will, in a year .or two, oblige to change the time of the year to be used for the fiflld works, approaching it al ways nearel' to the winter season; this will, however, make but a slight difference in the general organization of the work, the nature of the changes that may arise from this, or any other ac-. cessary circumstances belonging to the detail administrntion of the work, are so mu.ch less to be dtltailed hore, as the}' arc only prospective, there~ fore, as yet, undeterminable. The present organization of tho work, being the s1lme as since many . years, is of course fully known; the grounds. of it have beeu deduced iu my numerous former propositions for the work, and tho sel'ios of my yearly reports; it w:ould therefore not be proper ~o dwell here again upon it. The tasks executed by the last summer's works in the field, aru ~ follows: For the main triangulation: the extension of n more general scheme of larger triangles southerly on both sides of the Deln ware, over those that

Rep.

No.

110}

have.beetr made with the view, to topogra,phlcil:l and hydrograpllical ·use, and which' forms: ·their· fi11e.l ·element !a:ud t'mion. . ·· · · F.or the secoridnty triangulation: to extend preliminary uiangles over th!'! upper· pait of the 1 C\\eso.peake, which wi\He.ad also to the discovery of a proper locality for measuring the second·principal bnse line, and to complete, the triangles abo'ilt-both sides of Delaware bay, establish those up to the neigh borhoocl of the head of the t¥le. waters ()f the Dela ware river, about above Philadelphia, &c. . The plane-table parties have filled np the grc11test part of the ground nQ'.W '.intended to he surveyed on both sides of the Delaware, nnd in other parts of New Jersey. . One of the naval patt:ies has cof1tinued the soundings in the Delaware, parallel with the works of the topographical parties on its shore$ ; the other has ·been extending the soundings out of sight cif land, in the quadrangle, which is formed between the coast and the parallels and longitudes of Block island and Cape Henlopen, formi11g the outer approaches of both the New York harbor and the Delaware bay. This investigation was carried out till to the Gulf stream, and in soundings till 650 fathoms depth, keeping samples of the nature of the bottop1 below. The1 officer opurattng in this work, expressed his foll satisfaction with ;the' methods indicated to him, the means he was provided with 'for that purpose, and the results obtained. · 'l'he conaidera.tiou of the p~culiarity of 1hese works can a.lone make them appreciate, the natnre of the ground over which 'they extend, the mnrshr.s abounding on both shores of the rive.1·, and the great mnltitudc, and variability of the channels, shoals, nn<l other impcdimeuts, which the Dela ware presents, multiply in an equal proportion, the works and the difficulties of them, thence the necessary care, assiduity, an<l exertions, for both the topographical and the naval parties in thnt part of the work. It was of interest to find out the exact place, where the observations of the tra.1rnit of Vonus over the Sun, was observed in 1769, at \Vhat wanhen called Cape Henlopen; therefore, on my visit to that rJeighborhoocl, I made proper inquity, and was very kindly shown \he p\ace by the o\dest inhabitant of Lewiston, Mr. Rodney, formerly Senator for the Suite of Delaware in Congress, who recollected it, from his having been at the tents,of the observers at the time, when he was about five years old. This place was, therefore, determined by the topographical party operating in the neighborhood, an<l the results for the astronomical position of the place, will become comparable with that, which will result in time from the :present survey. ln·a great part of the early iieason the weather was very·much averse to thil works; the .fine :weather. in the fo.H, thongh favorable for the works, requiring no distant views/was far less so to the works of the main triangulation than its appearance would have Jed to expect; the constant dense fogs, particularly over the iDelaware, which the greatest mtmber of the large ·ttiangle Mirles, now 'in opera'.tio11, are erossh\g, cau$ed com1iderable loss of tim~. (Total description «'f _the year's work. )-1842'-'43, Doc. No. :23, pp. I, 2, and 3.

Rep.

No.. 11·01.

:.NoTE (91.)

To 111 and 112 : The principles of my action iii this respect, are fully exposed already in my printed papers upon the coast survey, quoted before. The reduction, to any otbor measure, co11sists ouly in the addition of a constant logarithm, as for instance, that for the yards; and even for the miles, is given.in:my printed logarithmic and trigonometric tables. As nil the .scales· of the maps are· e"pressed· by their fractional value, the distance upon the maps can be ascert!:\ined in auy measure whatsoever, and by that means is really given in any measure ·Whatsoever, which js widely: different fr.om .the bad method so many miles to the inch, which has 119 ..regula1· comparable ,proportion. [HaBsler;p. 63. Non: (92.)
111. · Questiou. Are the measu1~es in the survey tnkan in French metres? If so, why? Answer. Ycs, because it is the only absolute slanuan\; bnt the re.suits ai;e giV'cn 'in yards aii<l metres both. 112. Questiou. 111 what pal'ts of yartls? Answer. In decimal parts only. [Hassler, 71. 12. 65. Question. How are your distances measurod? Amnver. In French metres. It is not the sttui<lur<l of.the country, but it is the standard best authenticated, ancl best lmowu in geodetic operations. dtli: standard is the English .yu1·d. The foot is the most common·me~sure usedin thii; country, both for scientific and practical purposes. (i'G. Question. Is the metre in common·nse in this conut1·y iu.any·way? Answei·. No. G7. Question. Is it uot as easy to convert yard measure .iuto metres as metre mensnro into yards? Answer. It is the same thing. 6S. Question. In that case, what benefit is there iu having the work of· the survey in metres ? Answer. None bnt what I have given before. 69. Question. What is the standard used in the English survey? Answer. Either the English yard or foot. [Ferguson, 71. IS.

NoTJ.: (tr3.)

'rho answers to questions G!J till 74 must have been highly instmctive for the committee, as they btfer much field for speculatio11 without bottom. The discussion upon the Newark bay map, requested so minutely from Mr. Ferguson, shows evidently a high degree of research upon mathematical accuracy, and similar subjects, which exceeds itself again, when it coines to determine the square miles covered by triangles who have but three corners, as well explained at the end of the article. [ Hassler's critique on .the c.caminatfon by tl1e committee, dated Jamw1·y, 1843, p. 9.

92

Rep. No.

170~

The following information respecting the wearing of the coast at Cnpe

May has beer. received from Colonel T. Jones Yorke, the present member of this Honse from New Jersey.
NoTE (94.)

HousE o:F llEPl\ESENTA'l'lVES U.S., 1Fashington City, D. C., February 15, 1843. · . DEAR Sin: In answer to your inquiries, "of the effect of the wash of the ocean on the main land at Cape Island," I now enclose you a copy of the record kept at the Atlantic Hotel and Congress Hall, upon the island. The Atlantic Hotel was built in 1804, and you will observe the record shows the annual wear, with few exceptions. The whole amount, however, is shown for twenty-six years, which is 334 feet, being an average of 12 31f01f feet annually-(the house was then moved.) Jn the years 1831 to 1834, inclusive, there was no re·cord. From 1835 to 1843, the measurement has been made from Congress Hall, (on a different site,) and embraces eight years: whole amount, 76 feet-making an average of, 9-r~~ feet annually. · , The whole amount of wash is 41 o feet in 34 years, n veraging 10-UlJ feet
yier year.

If the years 1831 to 1834 were included, it would make the total greater, but perhaps would vary the average very little, if any. I am informed that the wash has changed within the last two years, and has cut off the point formed by the ocean and tho Delaware bay; a.nd is now working into the bay, and cutting away the main land npon which· the light-house stands, (which is about one-half of a mile within the bay;) and, further, that the beach is making above the light-house. I hope these answers will be satisfactory; if not, I shall b1~ pleased t(). give auy further information in my knowledge. Very truly, &c.
'I'. JO~ES

YORKE.

Hon. Jom· B. Avcn10G, House of Reps. U1iited States.

Rep. No. 170.

93

Effect of lite wash of tlfe .llt/011/fr ocerm t1pon lite main land al Cape Island, ascertained by mea.mrement, of which a ncord has been kept.
-·- - - - - - ·

---··

Atlantic Hotel.

Congress Hall.

Distance from the beach. Year.

Wash.
Average,

-

Distance from the Wash. beach. Year.

A veruge.

Total w11sh.

--- --- --Feet. Fcot. Feet.

Feel.

F'cC>t.

Feet.

Feet.

--1804 1805 1806 1807 1808 1809 1810 1812 1816 1817 1818 1819 1820 1821
il~27

----

--- --- ---,

-

334 324 294 273 267 266 256 225 210 204 186 150 174 64
10

30 21
6

1830

-

-

1 10 31 15 6 16 8 6 110
6·1

1831 to 1834 1835 1836 1837 1838 1839 to 1843

~

No rec ord.
540 528 526 515 464
12

2
11

~

.51 76
25~ 9n

26 years .

..,.
--·· .

334
...

-

12Ao~
-··-·--·

8 years -

334

4l0

RECAPITULATION.

Wash opposite Atlantic Hotel, from l '304 to 1830, inclusive, be- . · ing 26 years Wash opposite Congress Hall, from 1835 to 1843, inclusive, being 8 years Total wash for 34 years Average wash -

334 feet. 76 410 " "

I 0T17is.,, feet per year.

The documents from which the above extracts are taken, being within reach of all the members of the Honse, any individual can satisfy himself (by referring to the originals) upon :my point on which he m:iy entertaili. a doubt.

/ ·t

ORIGI~ AL

CON'l'RAC'l':S

THE SUUVEY OF THE COAST.

ORIGINAL CONTRACTS.

'l'Rl:ASunY DJo:PAR'J'MJ.:NT,

June 20 1 1842.

S1R: I have the houor lo lrunsmit the following- communication, in an~wer to the inquiries made in yonr letler of the 31st ultimo, in behalf of the special committee "011 the coast survey." First. Respecting " tho contract between !he Oovern111eut a11Cl F. R. Hassler, superintendent of coast survey," of which a copy is asked by the committee, I beg leiwe respectfully to refer to the nccompanying papers, (marked A, B, C, and D,) as containing nil the information in possession of the Department, in reference to the eugagcmcut of the services and the terms on which Mr. Hassler nndertook to perform the work, in the year 1816, and on its revival in 1832. Second. In reference to the inquiry,'; under what authority was Mr. F. H. Hassler employed to muke a set of measures for the United States?" I would rospectfolly refor the committee to the copy of a comm1micatio11 1· herewith sent, from Mr. Secretary Iugham, under date of the 30th ot April, 1831, (marked C,) by which it appears he was employed by the Treus11ry Doparlme11t, with the sa11ction of the President, to superintend the manufacture of weights and mensures for all the custom-houses of the United States. Third. In regard to the i11quiry, ''when was the work 'commeuce<l, aud how much has been expended, yearly, from its commencement np to the presl~nt time, specifying the su111s, to whom paid, and for what purpose ?" it. is to be remarked, in answer to t.ho first branch of this inquiry, that on the 29th of May, 1830, the Senate of the United States adopted a resolution directing the Secretary of the Trensnry "to cause a comparison to be made of the standards of weight aud measure now used at the principal custom-houses h1 the United States, and report to' the Senate nt the next session of Congress." To comply with the requirements of this resolution, it appears Mr. Secretary Ingham deemed it ex pee.lieut to engage the services of Mr. Hasslor to mnko the uecessal'y comparisons, as shown by the accompanying copy of his lctler to lhut gentleman, dated 12th June, 1830, (marked B,) and iu vi ting lii111 to come on to Washington to perform that duty. To institute tho comparisons mentioned, it became necessary to reqnire the collectors of the principal ports to forward their standards to 'Vashington, which occasioned some u1mvoi<lable delay in the commencemeut of the work. The proper tesls and comparisons were accordingly 11111.de by Mr. Hassler, and the dclormined results woro submitted to tho Senato, iu reports from the Deptutment, nuder dates of the 3d of March, 1831, and 20th June, 1832, which will be found in Senato documents, 2d session of 21st Congress, 2d volume, document 74, nud Exccuth·e documents, 1st session 22d Congress, volnme 6, <locumont 299. As the results of these comparisons exhibited serious discrepancies between the standards used at the respective ports, the Department gave directions to Mr.' Hassler to superintend, in this city, the manufacture of standard weights and measnres for 1tll the custom-houses. 'l'heso directions wero giv~n in April, 1831, but, as many arrangements hnd to be made before the work of fabricating those standards could bo properly entered upon, such as the collectiou of materials and the preparation of re·

quisite machinery, some time elapsed before it went into complete operation. There is no data in the Department by which the precise time when the work was commenced can be fixed. [n reply to so much of 1he second branch of the inquiry under considera tion as relates to the amount" expended yearly, from its commencement," I beg leave to refer to the statement prepared by tbe Rf:lgister of the Treasury, and transmitted to the comniittee on the 15th instant, in compliance with the request of Mr. Aycrigg, a member of the co111mittee. J4'ourth. As to the inquiry," from what source or sources have the funds thus used been <lerived ?" I have to state that the fonds have been derived from the accruing revellue, un<ler tho authority believed to lie given in the 21st section of the general collection act of the 2d of March, l 799, requiring surveyors of the customs, from time to time, and particularly on the first Mondays in January and July, in each year, to examiue ancl try the weights, measures, and other inst.rumeuts, used in ascertaiuing rhe duties on imports, with standards, "to be provided by each coUcctor, at the public expense, for that purpose." The construction giveu by the Department to this provision of law seems to have been sa11ctionecl bv a special committee of the House of Representatives, of which.the Hon. "Horace Binney, of Penn· sylvania, was chairman, as ::>hown by lheir rnport, No. l 32, vol. l, second sessiou of the 23d Congress, which closes witl1 the following resolution, which was adopted by the Honse : "Re.9olued, That it is highly cxpedicut that the Treasury Depart1ucut should complete, with as little de1ay as practicable, tho fabrication of standards of weights and moa:-;ures, for the supply of the tlill'ere11t custom-houses of the .United States, 11po11 tile principles set forth i11 the rnports of the Secretary of the Treasury lo the Senate on tlw :id o( l\1ard1, l8~H, und 20th June, 1832." Both Houses of Congress subscllU(ntlly su.nclioued the source from which the expeuditures were made, by a joiut resolution of the 14th June, 1836, directing the Secretary of the Treasury to finish a cornplctti set. of ull tho weights and ·measures adopted as standarcls, for the respective 8tates; and by the 7th section of the act" for the support of the military academy/' &c., passed the 7th July, rn38, the Secretary of the Treasury is directed to cause to be made, under the s11pcrintcnde11cc of Mr. Hassler, one standard balance for each State, and, when completed, to be delivered to the rn.spvct. ive Governors, for the use o( each of the Sta.tes. Fifth. In regard to the iuquiry, "how 111au y cuniplctc sets of weights and measures have been delivered lo the Treasury Dcpartme11t, and how have they beeu disposed ofi'" I beg leave, ill auswcr, to rnfer the committee to the statement herewith sent, (rnu.rkud D,) by which it will ·be found that two hundred and seven sets of large weights, forly-four sets of ouuce weights, and forty-one yard measures, have been <lelivt3red by Mr. Hassler to the DeJ!nrlment; that, of the former, there havo buen distributed to cmstom-houses and States, &c., ono hunched an<l nineteen, of the second twenty-three, and of the latter thirty-four. Sixth. In respect to the inquiry," wheu is it probable the work will Le finished?" I would remark, that the Department is uot posse1:1sed of such information as to enablo it to fix any precise time wheu tbo weirk will be finished ; but, nR it is informed that tho capacity measures, and the balance of the ounce weights and yards, have been fabricated, and are uow under-going their final comparison, it is not supposed that much time will elapse
0

before their final completion. It is understood that the balances designed for the States are also in a state of forwardness. It is deemed proper to opserve, in conclusion, that it is not contemplated to furnish the respective custom-houses with balances or ounce weights, they being designed for the respective States alone. I have the honor to hl1, very respectfnlly, rour obedient servant,

W. FORWARD, Secretary qfl!te Trea:mry.
Hou. F.
MALLORY,

Chairman of Select Committee on Coast Survey.

\V A.SllINGTO:\', July 12, 1816. ·Sm : Herewith I have the honor to dclivAr the morn detailed a1ticles of

the agreement between the Treasury Department aud myself; relath·e to the survey of the coast, as desired by the letter of the Secretary of the Treasmy, uuder the 5th instant. You will judge if I hu ve expressed myself clearly upon the subjects under con:sideration, or 11ot, aud clispl>se, in consequeucc, :is you find most proper. I have the ho11or to be, with resptlcl and esteem, sir, yonr most obedient, humble si.irvant,

F. R. JIASSLJi;R.
····--- .foN}c1:i,

Esq.,

1'rPf!.rnr,1J

D1pa1·tment,

IFnshington C'ity .
1~·casury

.-'lrticles qf enga1-:ement between tile

States and .P. l-l. fli.zss/e1·, 1·elati11c lo the fJniled Slates.

,\'W'tJP//

D1partment oj' the United qf the coa.vt ef the

A. Mr. Hassler e11gages tu bc:>tow all his tin1e, labor, aud attontion, to the work of I.be survey; us well to make, himself, tho priucipal part of the general large triangulution, and the cousPq11eut calculatious, as to superi11tend and direct the esrablishmcnt the observatories, and the officers of i:uginccrs~ or 11aval ofiiccrs, who wil I Im eugaged under his orders, iu the detail part~ of tlio work, a11d give them proper iustmctiom; to tliat effect, ncoording to tlic pla11 proposed by hini, uui.lor tho 15th l\lay, 1816. B. He will, to that purposo, ha vo the usu of such i11stnune11ts tmd books of the collection he has procmorl, or \Vl1icli arc ynt to b·~ procured, for th~ use in this work, as he may fiud uncessary for liis ohjectl!, unll give direc· tio11s relati vc to tho so which arc to he used by the ollicers umler his <lirocr.ion. C. He will be provided from the corps of e11gi11eers, on his application to the geueral of said corps, with tho following assistauco to his own wo1·ks, or such part of the same as lie lllay deem necessary, according to circum· stances, viz: I. Two o!licel's of engineers, topographical or others. 2. Some cadets of said corps, in 1n1mber accorcJiug to tho circumstu.uces. 3. Twelve men of said corps, for tho most part artificers, \Vith corpora\ or sergeant. 1. One large baggage wagon .· with four horses, or two smaller ones, as he m£Ly require, with the necessary drivers to them.

or

6
5. Two saddle hcrees .. 6 Tents for the accommodation of himself, the above-mentioned officers, cadets, and mcu, and the shelter of the instrumen\s. 7. 'fhe ueccssary field utensils, as well for the personal accommodation of the compauy a8 for the works occurring, not romprehending Mr. Hass· lcr's private eqnipmcnt. D. Under Mr. Hassler's orders, the omcer first i11 rank accompauying him will have tho chief command of the above military assistance, and act as treasurer upon the funds, which will be given to said ofllcer to defray all the expenses of a public 11aturc oecurriug or ordered by Mr. Hassler; and said officer will render account upon these funds to the Tl'easury Department. · }.:;, The following are to be considcreu expenses ol'. a public ualurc, viz: l. The keepiug in order and securing from injury of the iustrumRllt~ belonging to the Uovcrrnncmt, their r,ta1uis and boxes, nnd the fitting them ·lP for use. 2. Snch additions to the collection of i11strnmc11ts awl books as may be found necessary by Mr. Hassk·r in tlw progress of the work, aa well to complete the collection from time to time as to furnish a imfficient tll1111ber of them for the use of the detail surveyors. 3. The construction of the sig11als and signal lamp1>, awl their attendance and protection 4. The preparations of the statiotrn, for the coJJvenic111·e of obscrvatious, and the securing of them !Or Cuturn utility. 5. The transport of the instruments and the baggugo of tlrn company. 6. All expe11ses consequent or relating lo tl1c keeping in order and maintena:nee of the military assistance slC1.t·~d i11 article B. 7. All expernies for the. estv.blisbmcnt of the permaumit or lclllporary observatories, to be erected ac.:cording to Mr. Hasslcr's plans. s. 'l'he printing of blank formula8 of jomnals aud calculations, for the detail isu1·veyors: if such are found advantageous, us it is probable. 1''. Mr. Hassler will receive~ tlS compensation for his personal work in 'the survey, his snperinten<lence <UJd direction of the whole, a.nd all his personal expenses co11sc(1uc1Jt thereof~ tlic sum of five thou11and dollars a11nually, to he paid qnartcrly, on !tis drafts upon tl1C'Trcasury Department, ~; otherwise. ' G. It is understood that the work shall not be carried on in tho form of n bureau or otficc; but that Mr. Hassler hiinsell~ as well as the officers under his direction, :>hall execute such work as devolves upon them, or arc ordered to them in the field, by 1.lcfrayitJg tl1cir owu personal Axpcnscs, and at home in their private quarters. Tlie1·eforn, no accounts will be admitted upon room hire, fire wood, &lationery, or smaller drawing implements, not provided by tho colleetiou of tho Government. The abovcmentioncd compensation is to be con:>iderod compensating all his poc~onal expenses, in his absence from home, in tile work of the su.rvey, and thr. items here mentioned, required for his personal use iu thi1:1 work, cxclutiive only of the oxpcn1:1e8 1:>tated as of a public 11at11re iu article E. H. The appointments to be made in future, to officers undertaking sep· arate parts of the work, will be fixed so as to compreheud thl:l ~ame al'ticlcB, and to follow the same priucipJes. I. If, therefore, Mr. Hassler shall at any time require officers to work untler his direction iu bis quarters, it will be at his option, and entirely a

7
matter of his pri vnte arrangement; otherwise, every officer is to be understood to execute his house work in his own quarters. K. From these reghlations are axcepted : 1. All expenditnres relating to the use of vessels or shipping, for soundings and the nautical part of the survey, for which proper arrnngements will be made in time by the Treasury Department, upon propositions to this effect. 2. Tbe clear executed copies of the maps and charts, either general or ~pecial, which will be required by the proper authorities, or prepared for publishing ; for which proper draughtsmen will be appointed, and paid according to separate arrangements, to be made with men who may havl' <lpplied to such works with pnrticula1· success. ' 3. All expenses and consequences of engraving, printing, publishing, or executing such number of copies of the maps or charts us may be required for this purpose, or desired by the novernment, or the officers to whom i~ may belong.
\VASHJNGTON,

.

F. R. HASSLER.
July 12. lSlfl. '

. TnEAsunv UF.PAn·rMEN1', Jl.ugust 3, 1816. 8111: The correspondence and documents relative to yom being employ-

ed as superiutendent of the survey of the coast, u11dcr the act of Congress respecting that object, have beer~ submitted to the President, and youi· services are engage<l, on the follow mg terms: l. The wholtl of your time, labor, talents, and attention, shall be given to the work, ns well in relation to the superintendence of the duties to be performed by military or naval officers and assistants, or by draughts1mm and engineers, as in relation Jo the parts of the work which nre to be executed by yourself. 2. You will be provided with competent assistance of officers and meu, from the corps of engineers and from the navy, with tents and field equipage, with baggage wagons and horses; and you will have tho free use of the public instruments and books, for the purposes of the survey. 3. The party of &tficers, men, and assistants, accompanying you, will be ordered to conform to your instructions; uud all the incidental expenses of the survey, which arc of a public uaturo, will be defrayed by the Government; but your own personal expenses are to be clofrayeu by you, whether yon are employed at home 01· abroad. 4. Funds will be placed, from time to time, upon your req uisitiou, in the lrnnds of the chief officer accompuuying you, to be disbursed, upon your 01·der, in the payment of the expenses of a public nature, aud to be accounted for by him at the Treasury once at least in every thrne mon\h$. .5. You will receive, in full for all your services, a compensation at thtt rate of $3,000 per annum,aud for your personal expeuses an allowance at the rate of $2,000 per annum, to commence 011 the lSth day of June, 1816, and to be paid quarterly at the Treasury, upon your drafts. 6. You will make frequent reports of your progress to this Departmeat, and deposite here all the surveys, drafts, notes, charts, maps, journals, and documents, in any wise belonging to the 8urvey of the coast; and you will return the public instruments a11d books to such place as shall be di~ected, when they are no longer required for the business of the survey,

7. If at any time it should be necessary to explain the nature and extent of your employment and engagement, your communications to this Department, and particularly the articles. submitted hy yon 011 the 12th July, 1816, will be resorted to. It only remains to repeat the Prnsideut's solicitude for a successful and speedy execution of the grcnl national work which is thus confided to you, and to assure yon of the esteem with which I am, sir, your most obedient servant, A . .r. DALLAS. Mr. F. R. HASSLER, [To //1e care of Roher! Pr11!erson, Esq., Director oj' tlte Mint, Pldla. J
Copy certified co1Jformnhlr to rhr original.

F. H. HASSLF.H.

Upon lite urlicles of agrennent between Lite Treasur.IJ Department qf IM United States and P. N. Hassler, relative tu l/w surve.IJ of t/1e coast of lite United States.
I. Mr. Hassler engages to underlake tile direction of the survey of thr coast of the United States, According to the la\\' to that effect of 1807, and the act to put the same in activity, passed in 1832, as well by performing such of the principal parts of the same as will require his own personal work, as by directing and snperiutending the work of such officers of the army and navy, and also civil engineers, as will be appointed, upon his recommendation, in the other parts, and the detail surveys, the determination of soundings, and such like. 2. He will, for that purpose, have the use nud disposition, for liimself or his assistants, of the instruments and all other necessary implements, bookt, &c., that have been procured in time for that purpose, and such others as will be procmed successively for the samo use. 3. He will also be provided with the proper means of safe conveyance of these instruments and other objects, either by land or by watJlr, according to the arrangements which he will make at proper times fol' that purpose. jl. He will receive the assistauce of such officers, cadets, midshipmen, or other men of the military or naval service, as will be appointed upon his request, and who will be provided with all their necessary field equipments, &c. 5. All the assistants and men, military, naval, or civil, that will be appointed for thi!I service, will be ordered to conform to his instrnctions and directions, and, in case of their refusal, he will have the liberty to order them to report for other services, or dismiss them. 6. He will have the sole and free disposition of the carriages or other means of conveyance, and other objecrs or implements appertaining to the equipments for this work. 7. He wj)J be provided with tents for the instruments and for the accomm~dation of himself and his assistants, with the necessary tools for preparing stations, placing signals, and the other necessary works for the encampment on the stations, and mending implements, &c., thatinight be in

9
need of ·it; the necessa1ymea11s for signals, ·and for the preservation of the stations of tbe survey. 8. One of the assistants will act as accountant for all public expenses made upou the orders of Mr. Hassler, and will receive from the appropriations made for the sUl'vey such sums, at different times, as shall be agreed upon. He will acco1mt for them, at stated times, to the Treasury Department, for which service be will receive a compensation .. 9. All drawing, plotting, execution of maps, or· such like, will be done by the assistants, upon Mr. Hassler's orders, either in their private quarters or in au office, as may bo judged best. adapted to the case; the office expenses will. be paid by the accounting officer, on public account. 10. All the stationery needed in the work, as well for Mr. Hassler as for auy of tho assistants, will be provided by the accounting officer, at public .expense, in the field or at home. 11. Officers or engineers, detailed out by Mr. Hassler for separate works, of detail parts or others, will conform to tho instructions which they will l'eceive from him upou theii' work ; they will be furnished with such instruments, implemcmts, and assistance, as ho will direct ; and their expen· ses of a public nature will be accounted with the accountant above stated. They will report to Mr. Hassler, as ho will direct; for such works they will receive adequate compensation. 12. Mr. Hassler will receive, for compensation of his services, SS,000 per annum, and in lieu of his private personal expenses $2,000 per annum, to be paid together quarterly, upon his draft, bill, or otherwise. unless, in the progress of the work, he should be obliged to make voyages at greater distances, when an allowance, by the way of mileage, will be determined. 13. Mr. Hassler will be provided with an ostensible public paper, stating his employment, and the nature and object of the same, to support him in his actions and transactions in irny part of the country he may have to go for the purpose of his work, lo serve equally for his assistants and the persons employed under him.

F. R. HASSLER.
WABBlNGTON CtTY,

.lluguat 6, 1832.

ln1truments, implement8, and assistance reguired.
1st. These cannot be very essentially different from what they were in 1817. In the present state of the instruments and their acce11oriea, it will be best to give them under detailed inventory, as stated in its place, to the disposition of the chief of the work, to take the best advantage of them that they will afford, to havti them put in as good order as possible, and to a.l· low him to replace the missing accessories as best he can. . ' 2d. The carriage made purposely for the transportation of the principal instruments was sold, but is yet on hand, and c,n be made serviceable un· til a new one may be constrncted, which would most likely delay tooJong at present. For the other parts of the transportation it wiU be easy, to get a Jersey wagon, as has been used bflfore. ad. Horses and harness it will be necessary to purchase-the firat strong and sure ; the second simple, bttt strong. The ·mode of transportation .of the :n1trnments by a proper carriage, made of a size exactly to serve as a boa:

·

for them, and upon springs and thorough-braces, has been foul'!d more se. eure and economical tor this country than tne transportation by hand. It admitf!, therefore, also, to reduce the number of laboring hands for the work of the triangulation. 4th. The whole party in the work must be supplied with the necessary tents for their encampment in the field, and othel' necessary field equip· ments, besides axes, pickaxes, spades, and other tools, required for the placing of signals, preparing stations, and keeping every thing in good or. der. (I have even always such tools with me as are proper for keeping the instruments in good order, and repairing lighter accidental damages.) 5th. It must be observed, that the proper provision and arrangement of the accessories, and even the ease of an observer, are essential elements of aocu:rate observation, as well as attentive and intelligent assistants; both favor the unimpeded and proper prllgress of the work, and are therefore eHentially economical. A defective state of these parts is very detrimental. 6th .. It is expected that none of the chronometers will be in 1.1. serviceablo state; that defect may be supplied by the loan of a second-pendulum clock 11t West Point, (of Troughton's arrangement,) made expressly for transportation, which is not expected to be in use there; even a circnlat' instrument of Trough ton's, which is there, most likely in the same predicament, might be borrowed with advantage for the secondary triangles mentioned in the proper ·place. 7th. The selection of the assistants, in officel's or other able men, must of course belong to the chief of the work, who will recommend them, and they will receive their appointments from the Department, but, if necessary, removed upon the proposition of the chief of the work. For the present first beginning, to execute the part stated for the immediate work, three such persons will only be required, whom I wish to name, besides what accidental help I shall have to call my son in for, on account of his acquaintance with the former work. 8th. The number of laboring men will vary at uifferent times. When the base lines are measured, fifteen to twenty will b0 required for the simple triangulations, particularly that proposed at present in completion and extension of the triangulation made in 1817. Six or seven may be sufficient, besides the drivers for the carriages and what may be needed for de. tail triangulations, if they are undertaken simultaneously. 9th. The best manner of getting this part of the assistance i11 laboring men is to take them from the military, where they may be easily spared from some garrison or other. Their habit and rAgulation of discipline, and their being placed under the order of an officer, introdl\ces much easier the necesaary r~gularity, and they stand for their conduct under proper rogulation. · 10th. The pay and maintenance, in every respect, of the officers and·m&n taken from the army and navy, is in all cases to be provided for and paid by.the army corps to which they belong, or the navy in general, according to the regulations in which they otherwise stand ; so, also, they will receive all their equipments. They must, in general, bo considered as coming to , this setvice in the same manner as to any MhtT in their line to which they might be ordered.

F. R. HASSLER.
WASHINGTON C1'I'v,

.!lupat

6, 1832

TnAsuav DEPA:llTr.rENT,

August 91 1639,"

Srn. With the President,s approbation, you have been appoiote<i to~ make, under the superintendenco of this Department, tho survey of t,he coast of the United States, directed by the acts of the 10th February, 1817, and 10th July, 1832. , , .. The act last mentioned having authorized the employment of other per· sons as well as those in the land and naval service, such assistants, of pithor, description, as may be necessary in the work, will bo prnvided at yonr request . . Fu~1ds will be placed, from time to time, upon, your requisition in the hands of one of your assistants, to be disbursed for such expenses a pub· lic nature as may be properly chargeable to the appropriation for the survey of the coast, and he will render his accounts, approved by you, quar. terly, to the First Auditor. Those expenses of the persons in the military and naval service e.r:n· ployed in the survey, which are chargeable to military and naval appropri· , ations, will be defrayed by the officers of the respective Departments, aud accounted for under the direction of those Departments. You will receive, in full for all your services, a compensation at the l'a.te of $3,000 per annum, and, for all yom personal expenses, an allowance at the rate of $1,500 per annum, payable quarterly, to commence on the.~~·~ of August, 1832, you having been employed since that timo in the neaess~ry arrangements of the instruments and other preparatory wol'ics. IUs to be understood, however, that you will still continue your services in the' construction of weights and measures for the custom-houses, as far as may be compatible with your duties in tho coast smvey, without any: othe~ 001~ pensation than what is allowed for the coast survey. In all other respects than those indicated by this letter, the terms and nature of your employment will be the same as were fixed by the letter ad· dressed to you by this Department on the 3d of Augll'st, 1816. Tho plan of operations and methods formerly adopted by you in the coast survey having been approved of, you will recommence and continue t.ho work in conformity with them, including such modifications us are suggested in your report of the 6th iustant. I am, respectfnlly, your obedient servant, LOUIS McLANE, Secretar.1J of lite Treasury. F. R. HAssL1rn, Bsq.

of

W ASl!INC:TON Crrv, .!l.ugust 12, 1832. MosT IloNonEr> Sm : I have the honor lo acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 9th instant, by which you are pleased, with tho authoriza. tion of the President, to give into my charge aud direction the important national work of the survey of the coast of the United States, with a compensation of $3,000 annually for my services, and au annual allowan'Ce of $1,500 for my personal expenses, to begin from tho 2d instant. I am too well aware of the great importance of the work, its exigencies and nature, and the magnitude of the task, not to appreciate duly the value of the confidence you place in me by this trust. I shall call up all my exertions to prove these feelings, by conducting the work in a mannor as

12
honqra,bJe .as per,manently useful to the country; for which it presents so valuable means, that I feel highly honored by the occasion thus given to me to contribute rny exertions townl'd such an aim. The diminution of the allowance for my personal expenses, from what they had been rated at in my first appointment in 1816, is not such that withiu the limits of such estimations, made beforehand, its effects could be distinctly foreseen; I could only say, that while I was in activity in this work in 1817, my annual expenses in my absence from home amounted to about $2,000. What effect the uow somewhat changed prices of things may have in this respect is of course impossible to foretell; therefore this is so much less an objection with me, as iu any case I am certain it is not the intention of the Government to put me to pecuniary loss, and that, therefore, in case it should be found appropriate, this part may easily be modified to tho exigency of unforeseen circumstances. I shall also attend to the standarding of weights and measures, in which I have hitherto been engaged. I have taken such arrangements as will enable my assistant in it, Mr. Schmid, to prepare the works to the last stage of their adjustment, which I shall then make myself next winter, after my return from this year's field work in the survey. His acguaiutance with the subject, and his practice in that part during his presence in all my former operatio'ns, render him fully capable to the task; and his work will abridge mine so as to bring the necessity of my personal attendance within such 1imits of time as will be compatible with my work in the survey. Wi1h thanks for the honor of your confidence, I remain, with perfect respect and esteem, most honored sir, yonr most obedient servant,

.
Hon. Lot~ll McLANE,

F. It HASSLER.

Secretary of the 'lhasury of the United States.

0

'

ORIGIN AND HISTORY OF THE ATTACK OF MR. CUSHlNG UPON 'rHE COAST SURVEY, AND OP THE SELEC'l' COMMI'l'TEE OF INVES'l'IGATION, OR EXAMINATION, UPON THE WORK.

1. Tho first occasion to tho inimical move in Congress, was tnkon from the proposition of Mr. King, from Georgia, to order the printing of some mnps by the Navy Department, of some southern harbors, surveyed (so said) by Lieut. Glynn, which the Navy Department did doubt of being worth it. 2. Lieut. Glynn hud at thnt time, ns before and since, visited about the members of Congress and tho libraries, to pronch up his merits, and rL plan of chronometric surveying, which hud already in 1832 been tried to be put up, in opposition to my plan, (I have the copies) but which is actually incapnble of giving n resnlt in the case, as well known in science ; chronometers are good seamen's tools, but incapable of surveying, because they give no determination of distances, &c. 3. Lieut. Glynn's intermixture is proved by himself, by tho anecdote, that, Mr. Everett having said in the course of his opinion, "ho could attribute the course of Mr. Cushing, only to a want of information of what had Leen done, and to the promptings of some discontented lieutenant of tho navy." Lieut. Glynn went to Mr. Everett, telling him that his statement must have meant him ; to which Mr. Everett answered, " that he hnd not known him, nor heard him me11tio11ed hcfore that time ;" this of course unveiled Lieut. Glynn's co-operation, by his own consc10nce. 4. The whole attack of Mr. Cushing wns directed against me, personally; his other discussions betrayed the most complete ignorance of mathematical science, and of the work to which it wns to be applied. He used unbecoming expressio1rn, against which mnny members of Congress were so kind us to take my defence in a generous wny. He betrayed it in u very low manner, Ly saying, nftcr repenting a cull for a committee j "if it should 1.ie found thut no one but a ~wiss 1

2
could do the duty, he would waive his objection, and no't till then." This is evidently too distinctly stating, that I should be ejected, 1f it could be done, to leave the slightest doubt upon the case, thn.t private interested intention, without regn.rtl to public good, lay in his motives. 5. In general, all the low and bnd language which Mr. Cushing used on the occasion, is the fullest proof of his complete want of decency, and respect for the assembly whom he addressed, and of the fullest absence of all self-respect. 6. How Mr. Mallory could let himself be induced to be the cat'spaw of .Mr. Cushing, who was himself already a mere cat's-paw, is only cxplainalile by his not in the least understanding the suuject, and being made to believe that he could earn glory by helping Mr. Cushing to pull down that public work, under his control or guidance. 7. In the examinations of the committee, all the above proved itself still fuller, hy the conduct of Mr. Cushing, who at that time very soon was secondecl by Mr. Aycrigg; Mr. Mallory, as chairman, forgetting the dignity of his situation, to keep up decency in the examination, to which I was snhjcctc<l, in a form worse than criminal, (for nt least I, us attorney-general of the higher and si1preme courts in Swisscrland, did positively and strongly reprove the inferior courts, when an examination of n criminal was not conducted with propriety and decorum, though none ever went so low down in language as Mr. Cushing came with me in the committee, with the sufferance of Mr. Mallory.) 8. The following is the history, and some facts of my examination. At the first meeting, Mr. Mnllory bcgnn by saying to me: "We know the respect due to age; we know that you arc very industrious." I augured well from that; lw and Mr. Aycrig-g both sitid then, they were friendly to tlie work. Mr. Wisc was r;rescnt also, who had already spoken friendly in Congress, nnd otherwise; n few questions only passed as such, otherwise only conversation, which, if persisted in friendly, instead of what occurred after, would have been able to give all proper information upon any part of the work, that might have been desired. 9. But, next day, were prP.scnt Mr. Mallory and Mr. Aycrigg only; when Mr. Cushing- entered furiously, stretching his nrms over the table, around which we were all three sitting, loudly exclaiming, "You know, gentlemen, we have agreed that, unless publications be made, we would vote for keeping back the appropriation." This at once unveiled to me, that no objection to the

3
appropriation was intended, as there wns ovid~ntly no time lost to chungo nny thing. 10. Then, Mr.. Cushing, tnrning his baclc to me, us he di.d dnring the whole three days' exnminati.on, began in 11 vociferating tone, to address me the questions in my examination up to nbout No. 50 or 60. Tho questions being set mixed, or nnclcnr, I, of course, began sometimes by wishing to separate them, clear them np, nnd explaining, bnt Mr. Cushing, turning round to me in an angry tone, snid most generally, "that is urgnmcnt, l will not thnt-I want 'yes or no,'" which could of course convey no information to n man igno· ruut of the first clements of the subject ho inquired into. Often, when I began only to spcnk, at the first word he exclnimed to his colleagues, "Always evasive answers, you see," or other offensive provocations. 11. I pass various questions, placed evidently only as catches, ns upon danger of fire, of falsifications, &c.; most of them nrc contained in the 120 questions, which nre recorded, and to which I have since extended the nnswcrs. This unbecorning turn of the cxnminntion occ::rnioncd me to writo a letter to Messrs. Holmes nncl Vvise, complaining of the unbecoming conduct towards me, and desiring their presence, us u check ; both came the third day of my exirn\\rrntion, but s\1ti.d only o. short time, Mr. Cushing nlways pushing !tis rough lnngunge, and impeaching my answers. I stated to tlicrn at ln~t, "Gentlemen, I will answer you nny question, but do iwt impeach my answers, thnt I do not admit." 'l'lwn, Mr. Mallory said to mo, "take it ensy"while, however, he left fnll sway to Mr. Cushin,q's angry nnd unbecoming language to me; it appeared, howc\'cr, Mr. Cushing gave n little iu, though his con<luct wns never what I could cull decent. 12. In the first meeting I Wl\S alone; in the two others Captain Swifr, the ttcco\mting oiiicer of tho Const. Survey, was present; he, after both exami1rntions, on the return, nclmowlcdgcd to nil the other 11ssistnnts, uccidcutally present, that tho exn111i1111tion, questions, &c., were evidently inimical, and they fouutl it the same, ns every man who hns seen them. 13. After me, Captain Swift, Messrs. Ferguson, Blunt, Illnke nnd Page were cxn.minctl, and, us I hn<l expected, nil treated with more kindness; for it seemed to be intended to hide tho mnnncr in which I had been treated, and to gain their gootl will nguinst me, if possible ; this I had expected, and told boforeliand to my assista:nts, that it would be the cnse; for Mr. Mallory giving me in the first

4

meeting the occasion to mention, that the trial of making me appear a man difficult to live with, was idle, as every man whoever dealt with me could sto.tc the contrary, he said, "it must not be so bud, for all your assistants like you." Their examination I know nothing of. 14. 'fhe trial evidently made, repeatedly, to frighten or provoke and irritate me, was a foolery, us I have no fear in my character. That the appropriation would not be withheld, I said to my assistants, because I said, it is not the question of saving money, but to get the very money for the favorites of Mr. Cushing, and those concerned. This proved itself fully by the fact, well known and recorded for the public, in Mr. Cushing's rising for it, and by the very words he used. 15. I might have asked the questions to be given to me in writing, to answer them more leisurely; but under the distrust which Mr. Cushing showed, by the whole proceeding, I was willing to leave him all the advantages which he might collect from ready answers, which I was just us able to give, provided he would consider the truth, that he was only master of the questions, and that I was so of the answers, as it is undeniable, but which he so comi;>letely disregarded. A member of Congress may claim the immunity to scrutinize a subject freely in the house, but he has no right to abuse, if he h88 any thing to investigate, 16. The puerile questions, of how much time the Weight and Measure work took of me, show evidently that they were prompted by the desire of putting somebody for that alone, to distribute offices in greate.r number, &c. It shows, that the task which I undertook, to perform two works for one income, was considered as introducing a bad habit, and not consonant with the genius which I have heard advocated: to make room for as many us possible, to give incomes, without regard to the work to be done. 17. Mr. Mallory once took up my last report, upon which the Committee was established, to go regularly in the order of its articles, but Mr. Cushing immediately broke through, continued his disconnected random questions1 and Mr. Mallory gave way to him. Upon my answer to question 38, Mr. Cushing said, "Such reports as you make, we make in an evening." This was hardly worth the smile, of ridicule which I gave to it. 18. Upon my answer to question 56, Mr. Cushing bursted forth with outstretched arms, " I know 500 men who can do it full ns well ns you, that I can Jay my hand upon at once." A smile at this would have followed, i.f the next question had not made me lift the

5

shoulders, RS it showed that with nll the French, and other publications, which Mr. Cushing quoted in Congress, as on hnnd to be learnt from, the knowing to rend, nnd the understanding the subject read upon, were so very for away from one another. 19. The object of question 58, is one of the complaints put up in the most unjust manner; I am obliged to remark upon that: I am promised in my contract with government, assistants; these to select I have the proper liberty, by my second agreement of 1832. But with the best wishes, and selections, as was naturally to be expected for n work so entirely new in the country, I must instruct them always, so as I answered, " us much ns they will admit ;" but the less instructed being nlso those who nre the least prone to nsk for information, and to learn, it appears as if some one had complained, that I did not net enough the schoolmaster with him, to get ultimately after much trouble the answer, habitual in thut case ; "Oh, that I knew long ago !" when he even did not understand it yet, as nny mnn who has, as I hnvo, been engaged in teaching, may know, as well as I. In short, the accusation is false. 20. Still, I might udd, that I contracted with the government for my work, the capacity to which is one of the results of my knowledge, acquired at my f atlier's and my e.ipense, and assiduous study of many years; to this my knowledge itself, the government has no right, having not 'paid for it, nor has uny of my assistants, it is my private property; whatever or it .I mny be willing to give, is my liberal gift, which should be exercised only towards the deserving, and which such n man will dnly acknowledge, us actually some of my nssistnnts do. 'l'hc right of the government goes, strictly speaking, only upon my work, us results of my knowledgo in that branch ; so it is considered all over Europe ; thus Mr. Bessel expressed himself in his review of my Coast Survey pnpers-" Mr. Hassler gives us also liis means," ns a distinction from others. 21. rrhe most of the questions testify by themselves to the incapacity of the questioner, and to his desire to (what was called) "stump me:" sec questions G3, 64, GG-76. All tlrnt relates in nny wny to the actual work, I had explained in full at other places ; the most remurlmble defeat of their questions wits, when thinking to find me not able to answer, exactly, the timo of my going to the field work, and returning here, every ycur, since 1832. I could indicnte the hour, ru1d hnlf hour, of my departure and arrival in every year ; upon which Mr. Mallory wns himself obliged to laugh at Mr. Aycrigg, who had proposed the question, in high hopes of n catch, if it was in nny way reflected. . When, by mere conversation at the beginning with Mr. Aycrigg,

6
I stated to him, that I had even to reduce the zinc from the ore in the beginning, Mr. Cushing bursted out at once, "You might just as well have an iron mi.ne, too." What reproach should that convey? What reasonable aitn could there be in it ? 22. When the three members present appeared to consider nothing as work of mine, except my part of the work in the field, I observed, that the administration of the whole business, ordering and distributing of the works, &c., gave considerable work, Mr. Cushing turned round to me, speaking violently in my face, "What administration have you 7n Nearer to enter into the subject with a man, who could not see that a work requiring- scientific nnd meclmnica1 operations of all kinds, and the guidance of a considerable number of men, of very different qualifications and dispositions, must necessarily have even a considerable administration concern, was altogether useless, therefore, this was not answered in any way. Of the amount of this administration, the 17 or 18 volumes of my manuscript Documents give fully suflicicnt proofs. 23. Let it be enough of samples of politeness, good manners, and sagacious, wise investigation, with only the remark, thnt my assistants were aU highly scandalized ai it. Upon me it made n painful effect, which has now vanished. When I, therefore, was dismissed and my assistants also, it should have been hoped, that the three inquisitive members of the Committee had become wise, and over wise in the subject, but mistaken!! 24. Mr. MuJiory directed to me nn undertaker in engraving, Mr. Stone, to examine (consult the dictionary upon the meaning of the word and its sequels,) my map of New York in MS. This man I and my assistants knew too well, to be inimical to my engraving arrangement ; however to him, of course, the map was shown; but I told him directly he was not able ta put this map of mine upon copper, to which he had to confess-" I know that very 10ell ;" he measured the map with a foot rule, like an undertaker, to make n coffin for a dead body; while there is upon one squaro foot of it positively more work than upon two square yards of the most full map ever given out under his name, and I have not any confidence in him ; he is, in fact, no actual engraver; besides that, there is much of the map done, nnd in a for superior style. It would be ns uneconomical, as improper and unreasonnble, that nn intermediate engraving undertaker should be between me nnd the man who m1tSt work always positively under my instruction. 25. This occasioned me to write to Mr. Mallory, thnt the sending of sucli a man, to examine my work, is an unprovoked insult,

7

stating my reason, which would certainly be considered so by any member of tho committee, if it hud been done to him. Mr. Mallory, to whom I sent shortly after the first sketch of the questions of my examination, sent me word by the messenger who returned them, that this my letter spoiled nil, &c.; if they choose to step out in the public with thnt, I am ready to meet them, but they und Stone both do best to let it rest. 26. As the wish of the committee, to show him the map, was exccnted, notwithstanding he !tad seen it before already, ull the committee could claim was done/ and I had, as n private honest man, the right to complain,' when a man was sent to me whom, in my opinion, I did not find admissible under circumstances so highly obnoxious. 27. It appears evidently, that tho harvest of faults desired to be found with me, wns not satisfactory in tho Const Survey researches ; therefore, the committee took holcl of my works, for the establishment of uniform Standards of Weight and Meusnro for the Union. Mr. Mallory sent me word not to go away, that I would be culled to be examined upon that work also! 28. As Mr. Mallory left for Norfolk, Mr. Aycrigg wrote to me under the 9th of June, u lotter, calling me up, forthwith to give a. concise account of my works in thut line, without referring to any of rny f ormcr reports ; tho style of it being too for from what, in old free Switzerland, would be conf>idcrc<l becoming in public business, it presented u sample of style now to me ; but I answered it by a full, still very abridged report, dated 29th June lust. 29. Nobody will doubt, thut if those members of the committee, who proposed to themselves to fight to destl'Oy tho work, had, instead of the blind passions and interested action, actually intended to make themselves acquainted with the subject, they would hnve begun, us Mr. Woodbury did when the Coust Survey came under him'in the Navy Department, that is, by reuding first all that wns printed upon it; he, therefore, then nlso took the right und just course nt once. On the contrary, Mr. Cushing positively declined all reference to documents, ns did after also Mr. Aycrigg; even when Mr. Mallory tried to lend the questions of Mr. Cushing, by those proposed to me by his resolution, as answered in my report of 3J December Inst. Mr. Cushing rejected it. 31. Messrs. Wise und Holmes, evideutly disproving the course taken by Messrs. Cushing nnd Aycrigg, to whom .Mr. Mallory gnve way, kept nwny from tho committee, expecting that the part of the committee which aimed at the majority, by involving Mr. Mallory,

8

should some day or other make an exposition of what conclusion they would come to; but nothing yet came out from them; I hope they abandon further persecution. 32. However, every part of my work being grounded upon laws, and my positive contract with the government, they cannot propose insinuations to any actu[J.l effect, &c. ; if a law should be proposed, the sense of Congress will have to discuss it, and truth will come out. 33. Accounts were called in from the Treasury Department for every penny since 1807, which have occupied and confused n clerk in the Treasury Department, to take out of the Documents, since last January, and will still more confuse the Committee, which is not in uny way in the case of drawing correct conclusions from them. 34. This whole attack of Mr. Cushing with its consequences has, taking all together, cost one whole year of my work in the Coast Survey, and disturbed all the other works very much ; tho cost of this move is, therefore, of considerable consequences in respect to money ; but that is trifling in comparison to the harm it has done to the work in general, which to discuss is not here the place. But it may be observed, that this 8urvcy work can never be, for the chief, n money concern of any moment, nor that the pushing to making the work, with n view to making money, cnn possibly give nn honorable result. 35. The Committee was evidently in the position of a coroner's jury, which ought to have inquired into its subject, by direct personal inspection of the office, in which the work is established ; I requested this repeatedly in writing, and verbally, but could never obtain it; so, no actual investigation was ever made there. Mr. Holmes made a short visit, Mr. Wise came several times; both in o. friendly way, but the other three principally active members paid no attention to the office, where every thing could have been shown and easily explained. 36. It must strike nny observer, that these ways of interrupting the Coast Survey, occusion a great deal of writing, that might well be spared, and which unfortunately takes away my awn personal time, which is so much required for every· brnnch of the work. Therefrom has arisen, that the primary triangulation has remained behind the secondary, by which this becomes n preliminary or reconnoitering work, which, by tlw nature of it, must be subject to change of form in its application, by which there is n damage done, even prospective, hy doubling the ctdculations in future. There is

9 no remedying to that consequence, because mnthcmnticnl principles decide peremptorily, and without appeal or cavil. 37. It cannot escape the most superficial observation, that these interruptions are very costly, because, during the time which the subjects· arc discussed, the compensations and the current expenses of the whole establishment go on, ns well us if the time were employed in the work, which of course cannot possibly go on with equal success, during the time thnt these impediments lust, and engross the attention, nnd absorb to a great degree the labor of all the persons engaged in the work. F. R. HASSLER.
Pinekill, 2ht DBcember, 1842.

2

Notice of the Impediments and Delays which the Survey .of the Coast has encountered previous to 1842.

1. When, in 1816, I hnd agreed with Mr. Dallas, Secretary of the Treasury, about arrnngements for the funds to be given to Major Abert, the then accounting officer for the Coast Survey, Mr. Dallas resigned immediately after, and Mr. Crawford, succeeding in the Treasury Department, refused the funds ; this occasioned that I had to wait, to move the instruments from Philadelphia to Newark, New Jersey, where they were to be used, until I had money of my own to pay the expenses myself. 2. In the spring of 1817, a similar occurrence made again, that I had to start upon my own means. Mr. Ornwford nll that year answered none of my letters requiring dispositions, by which arrangements were lost which would have helped the work a great -deal. 3. In the Senate, session 1817, '18, a proposition wns made, and passed both houses, tlie representative unobserved even, limiting the law to the sole employment of no.val nnd military officers, which, by abolishing my connection with the work, broke up the work ! The attempt then made by the Navy Department, under the direction of four divisions of the navy, occasioned the expenditure of several hundred thousand dollars, bat produced no work that dared to be shown or honorably exhibited. Witness, and other proofs, to these facts are yet producible. 4. When the law for the Const Survey was renewed in 1832, the influence of navy officers, who had joined to advocate a so called chronometric survey plan, occasioned such circumstances ns ware expected to break up the agreement with me, directed by the President, which delayed the agreement; when it was concluded it was set up, that no advance of money could be given to me, without the special permission of the President, just then absent. I vanquished that by asking only the proper papers, and with them, as proof of my position, I got personal credit in the Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, for $3000, with which I begll.Il

11
the work ngain at my expense i after two months, upon sending in accounts, I got a check upon the United Stutes Bnnk at New York. 5. In 1838, n proposition was stnrted to establish u committee to regulate the work, to be composed of n Naval Commodore, the chief of the Topographical Department, nnd the under Secretary of the Treasury. I said immedio.tely that I could not. work under such circumstances, because the committee could not possibly direct me in the work, and I had no time to lead the committee. A trial, by my meeting the naval and engineer officers who were to be the members of the committee, which lasted but nbout nn hour, showed by their disagreeing in principles, the inapplicability of the committee, and it was of course dropped. 6. In the mean time I could never get either a hen.ring or an answer upon my letters from Mr. Tuney, then Secretary of the Treasury, and the Const Survey was transferred to the Navy Department, where I knew it could not prosper, and said so immediately to the President, who promised me his protection, when I informed him of that, but the sequel proved me in the right. 7. In 1834, a violent attack was made against the accounts of the Coast Survey, my competence in doing what was rriqnired for the work, &c., and I wns charged unjustly with payments of expens1;s of coming from the field work to Washington. This was cflrried on under the nnme of Amos Kendall, Auditor, who having before ulrcady passed the account, turned upon his heels, und served as cat's-paw in the trial to subvert the work. 8. By wrong application of the funds of the Const Survey in the Navy Department, the amount of npproprintion had been reduced below the necessary means to go out to tho field work in 1835 ; it took some time to obtain tho return ; besides that Mr. Dickerson, the then Sccretnry of the Nnvy, took n decidedly inimico.l turn; in direct change of the very fine mmmcr in which he had defended the work in 1818. fl. The documents of 1835 show how much of my exertions of this year wus still wasted upon the discussion of the difficulties ruised, until I obtained from the President the rc-trnnsfor of the work under the Treasury Depurtrnent, then in the hnnds of Mr. Woodbury, nt the snme time the works upon the Weight and l\'lcasuro Standnrds were discussed, planned aud begun. 10. 'l'hrough 1836 shows itself tho influence of nll the preceding state of disturbance; the inability to pursue certain pnrts of the work, on thnt account, occnsioncd to pursue that year only tho means of junction of the Murylnnd Survoy, with tho Coust Survey. 11. The little bickeriugs in joumnls, newspapers nnrt insinua-

12 tions from various sides, that always go on, procluccd only disagreeable feelings, but the former experiences had of course occasioned precautions to be taken, in all measures and arrangements, which had a bad effect upon the celerity of the progress, which would otherwise have been possihle. 12. It appears that the credit acquired by the work in this interval of half peace, was not to be suffered unmolested. Mr. Cushing rose as champion of a new tournament, which is now playing. 13. This constant persecution, and the groundless reproaches, heaped upon a work of science, and public utility for the country, which is universally acknowledged to go on in the best manner possible, to the complete success of the results aimed at, becomes ultimately discreditable. It would be a bad and painful result, if the ignorance and jealousy of a private few should be able to produce a national harm and disgrace, by Congress being once more misled to espouse them. F. R. HASSLER.
Station, Pinekill, N. J., 2lat December, 1842.

Q .;........ r

Do~.

No, 264,

3

HousE OF REPRE&»NTATIV.Es,

Committee on Naval .11.ffaira, Feb. 95, 1828. S1R: The Hottse has directed the Committee on Naval Affairs to in- · quire into the expediency of carryiug into effect the provisions of the act to provide for surveying th.e coasts of the United States, approved February 10, 1807. · · · · ·· · I instructed by tho conunit.tcc to ask of your Departtrient information on the followirig point~ : , l. What mnps and charts of the coast of the United States the ·Government possesses ; by whom and when the surveys were made, so far as these nnd other facts con.nected with these maps, charts, ahd surveys, can be given without injury fo the public service; and what progres$ has been made in or toward the survey contemplated by the act referred tQ ? · ·,· 2. Whetbe1·, in the opinion of the Department, such survey ought to ma.de; and if so, what further, if nny, po\ve'rs are deemed necessary to.its due e,xe.cution ? · . 3. The best plan of making it; the instruments on hand to make it; the instruments, and their cost, necessary to be procured; and the appropriations deemed necessary to the work, in the whole, and for t.hc current year. · I would add, that the committee, in calling your attention to these parti~ulars, do not desire to limit you to them, but solicit the fullest informa· tion 011 the whole subject referred to them. With perfect esteem, 1 nm, sir, your humble servant, MICHAEL HOFFMAN.

am

t

be

Hon. SAMUEL

L.

SouTHARD,

Secretary of the NmJ,1/-

· NAVY DI;PARTMENT, .llpril 14, 1828. · Sia: 1 have had the honor to receive your letter, making certain inqul., ries respecting " the expediency of carrying into effect the provision.s of the law to provide;for surveying the consts,of the United States, approviid toth February, 1807 ," and. respectfully ·submit my answers, in the order in which the questions are propounded. · J. "What maps and charts of the coasts of the United States the Gov~: ernment possesses ; by whom and vthen the smveys, were made, so far these and .other facts connected with these mnps, charts, and ~uvey$, can be given without injury to the public service?" . The enclosed papers, A and B, furnish lists of the maps and chartJ'in the offices of Navy. Commission.ers and Engineer d~parlment. Ju addi~ tion to these, there have been made, within the Inst three years, s11rveys of the harbors of Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, Brunswick, and Beaufort, under ~he direction of the Navy Department, and by authority.of resolution.s and ,la.ws of Congress. They furnish the materials for charts an.d. maps of those harb9rs; ~hich will e:ic:hibit the depth of water, particularly · on the bars at their Qntranccs, anal their fitness fol' nav.al p\.lrposes. Of the whole of the maps and charts in ·pos~ession of the Government,

as

Doc. No. 28.f.
it may be remarked, that they do not furnish a satisfactory ~mrve'fpf the coast, for the following reasons : ·· I. They exhibit detached parts, uncounected with each other; 2. Are generally confined to the :shores, and do uot extend sllfficieiltly far into the ocean ; 3.. Were many of them made by incompetent men, with in~ompetent
m~~;

4. They were govered by no fixed and certain principles or guides, in a&certainiug the latitude and longitude of the principal points an~;.positious; 5. They do not embrace the whole coast. For t_hese and other reasons, they are unsafe; and, in many instances, useless and pernicious. · 2d. "What progress has been made in or towards the survey contemplated by the act referred to ?" · The law was passed on the 10th I·'coruary, 1807, under the auspices of the· then President Jefferson. hnmediately after its passage, he directed Mr. Gallatin, the Secretary· of the Trnasury, to make the proper inquiries into the best mode of executing it. Communications were made by him to several of our most scientific citizens ; and their views having been obtained, and submitted to a commission of scientific mcu, a plan was adopted in Jnly, 1807. To execute this plan, it was necessary to procure from Europe a variety of mathematical inslrum~nts, especially those which were required for one or more observatories, which formed one of its leading o.nd prominent objects. An agent, Mr. Hassler, whose views upon the snbjecl had been adopted by Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Gallatin, was sent to Europe by President Madison, in 1811, and he procured the instruments, a list of which is enclosed, mark.e~ C. Yon will perceive that a portion of these instrtl·· meats was designed for nse in the observatories, and are without value for any other purpose; their co~t was about $17,167 61. But little use has been made of them, and they are uow chiefly in good order, under the care and in the ofiice of the Engineers, attached to the War Department. The 1um of $29,720 57, of the original appropriation, was carried to the snrplus fund on the 31st December, 1814, and reappropriated on the 16th April, 1816, (vol. 6, page 57,) which enabled the J<~xecutive to direct. the survey to be commenced. It was accordingly commenced in the fall of 1816, under contract with Mr. ~assler, and was terminated by the act of 14th April, 1818. For both the plan, and extent of the work done under it, I beg to refer you to r~ports of Mr. Hassler. It would not be practicable to condense them to any useful extent, nor could it be profitable to attempt it. "It may be sufficient to remark, that the time during which he was employed, and the speedy repeal of the law, did not permit him to exhibit practical results in such a. way as to enable the. public to test the fitness of his plan by them; nor to execute any part of the work, so as to present a complete survey or chart of any portion of the coast. It i::i believed, however, that he accomplished all that was possible, within a shol't. period, and that his observations and work will be useful when the ~~rvey. sha!J b~ resumed. I would respectfully refer ;ou to papers published by him m 1824, "011 various subjects connecte with the sur.vey of th~ coast of the United States," to be found in the :Zd volume of the Ai.tteri· can Pnilosophical Transactions, and also, it is presumed, in the library of Congress. .

.

.

Doc. No. 264._

5

3d. "Whether, in the opinion of the Department, such survey ought to be made?" Upon this point, no doubt is entertained. It is culled for by regard to 0~1r commercial and naval interest.~, 11.nd to our means of untional defence. l do not understand. that you require a statement, in detail, of ·the reasons for this opinion. They will readily suggest themselves to every ri1ind. 4th. "'Vbat further, if any, powers are deemed necessary to its due execution?" I do not suppose thut any further or other powers are necessary, than those given by the law of 1807, witl1 au appropriation adequate to the object. 'l'he work being authorized, it will be the duty of the Executive to see that it is executed in the best manner which the pecuniary and scieu~ tific means within the control of the Government will permit. 5th. "The best plan for making it." The plan under which the survey was commenced, in 1816, wus adopted, after prudent deliberation, and by intelligent men, perfectly acquainted with the state of science in this country at the time. Since that period, much has been added to the acquirements and skill of many of our citizens, but especially of our officers, to whom duties of this kind would be pr·perly assigned. Several other plans have been proposed, but I am not prepared to express a decided opinion which should he adopted; and beg to sug~ gest to you, that a decision on this point should be the result of deliberate investigation by the Executive, to whom the execution of the law would be intrustcd. · In the performance of the work, under any plan, officers of the army and navy would afford assistance, and thus diminish the expense. But it is proper to add my conviction, that it never can be perfectly and satisfactorily done, without the aid of an observatory. 6th. "The instruments on haud to execute it." Paper D furnishes an answer to this inquiry. '.7th. "The instruments, and their cost, necessary to be procured." · These must necessarily depeud upon the plan which shall be adopted ; and, therefore, a safe list cannot, at this time, be furnished. It is probable that their cost, and the expense of procuring them, not be less than four or five'thousand dollars. Should yon still wish lists under the different plans which have been suggested, I will attempt to furnish them in 'a few days. 8th. "'l'he appropriations deemed necessary fo~ the work, in the whole, ·, and for the current year." . It is ~ work of great labor, nn<l of loug Cfilliuu:mcc. In attempting to Mtimnte its cost, with the present lights upon the subject, there would be much more danger of misleading than of directing the j11dgm~1t. The cost of an observatory, of the necessary instruments, and the pay of the officers employed, would be the principal .items. For tho first, J would respectfully refer you to an estimate furnished by the Department of War, in n commnnication to Congross, on the 6th of March, 1826; and won Id only remark, thnt I believe the expenditure, both for its e1·ection and support, may be made somewhat less than the estimate. The pay of the oflicers employed will create a comparatively small burden on the Treasury, as they are already iu tho service, and will be detMbed from other duties to execnte thi11.

will

1lot'; No. 264.
An appropriat1011 of thirty thousand dollars, for thi~ year, would be

amply

~ufficient.

I am, very re8pectfully, &c. · SAMUELL. SOUTHARD Hon. M1cHAEL HoFFMA~, Qhairman of the Committee on Naval .IJ.ffriirs, House of Representa/i1.1es.

.;

')

· [From the North A.merican Review of April, I Hll, p. '"'

et ieg.]

ART.

VIII.-Letter from the Secretary of the 1¥-easury, tran1mitting a report of F. R. Haaaler, Superintendent qf 4he Coaat Survey 1 ahot11· i12g the progress made therein up to the present time. (Doc. No. 98, House of Repre1enlatives, ( 'I'reasury Department,) i7th Congre11, 2d .Tession

,BY this valuable communication, as well as by information, reaching us from various sources, we are warned that the great public ~ork of the survey of the coast is in danger of being again abandoned, or, what we should regard as still more unfortunate, of being superseded by some other plan of operations. · In a. former number· we presented a concise view of the nature of geo, desical operations, and of the principles upon which they are based. The remarks there made upon the subject we conceived were sufficient to show the futility of any scheme for arriving at the perfect knowledge of any extensive portion of the earrh's surface, for. constructing a map, or cor· rectly determining and connecting a number of distant situations, by any other rules of procedure than those which the science of geodesia prescribes. They also afforded some data for a comparison between the American suryey, as far as it had then proceeded, and similar works in Europe ; such as, whether applied to -the progress or the character of the work, might well gratify national pride. Onr present purpose is to submit a few remarks, not of a character to interest the scientific reader, but de· signed rather to arrest the attention of men, who being necessarily uninformed upon matters of strict scienc~, are neverth!!less called upon in their high places to exercise judgment, and exert authority, upon ques· tions.in which the highest science is involved. It is our present aim to secure a clear and impartial investigation ; t6 correct misrepresentations; to.counteract the designs of scheming speculato'rs; to defeat, _if necessary, the instigations of ill will ; and to uphold the scientific reputation of the country, which is in some measure dependent upon the successful prosecution of this great national undertaking. , The question first in importance with regl!-rd to the coast survey is, whether any other moae can be adopted-this mode having for its object the greatest amount of useful information, in the shortest time, and at the least e:xpense. In discussing this question, so much has been said, and is ·still urged, concerning the use of chronometers, aud the substitution of them for the present system of triangulation, that it seems worth while to say a word upon this subject, premising, that the serious consideration we here give to it does not arise from any idea of the value attached to such a suggestiou in the minds of scientific men. · The chronometer in the hands of modern artists has, it is true, attained . a degree of excellence which admirably adapts it to' the general purposes
· Bee North American Review, Toi. XLII, p. 76

u HIJ.·

0

...

of navigation, and supplies to seamen the most.·useflll means of solving the problem of longitude. Still it is far too imperfect an instrument to be relied on implicitly. It possesses an inherent and constant lia't>ility to error; and although its accuracy may be pre~erved through any short period, this liability is so mnltiplied by tmie, und tlw <'hances of accident, ns to deprive even those which are most carefully com.tructed of all claim to p~rft?ct confidence. 1n·cases where their use is indispensable, as in detached aud local survcys~u the cursory examinati\Hl of dista11t and inhospitable regions, or in carrying a chain of longitudes around tho globe, and. geuerally where strict and careful measurement is for any reason forbidden, their imperfection is in souie nwustuc 1 em1~died by numbers. Acting as rhecks npun each othl'l', the amount of error is reduced, a1Jt\ tbf:l observe1: is enf1bled to fix, wi1h a degree vf precision imfiicient for thb sectJri_ty of ordinary uavigation, tbe simple poi,<itiou of certain points and headlantls. 'fhi5, however, is regarded only as the pullia1ion of an evil; the e".il itself is fundamental, ancl admits of uo complete remedy. . In determining Jitfercnces of rime between meridian:; widely separated, chroijometers have sometimes proved remarkably successful, and have exhibited J"esults of surprising accuracy. The reverse of this proves to be. the case in the adjustment of minor ditfernuces, where the cs~ential defects of the instrument are particularly displayed. There is 110 space, ho.wever small, of perceptible magnitude, which may no.t be submitted to trigonometrical measurement ; bnt it will be readily understood, that there are points, at minute distances asunder, between which no difference of local tirne can be estimated. If it be asserted, which we ure by 110 means prepared to .admit, that such distances are unimportant in a geographical vjew, it will a.ppenr that they are of the highest topographicai value when we come to. consider the character of our Southern coast. If chronometers, how6ver, could be implicitly relied on, aud the determination -of longitudes by means of them admitted of greater exactness, still it is: to be borne in mind that their 11se, i11 conuexion with the sextant, goe!!·SO far only· as to.decide u c~rtain uumber of fixed points" This canuot in auy strictness of language be culled 11 survey. It still remains to fill up the intermediate spaces l 1y some sort "f measurement, a.ud the mode aud resnlt of'this opera1iou are qnestions of serious importance. \Ve n·ef.d not enter into any detail io shuw that a survey of this kind must content itself with the bare outline of coast, harbors, islands, &c., 11eglec1ing all lh? valuuule details belonging to physical and statist.ical geography, differences of level, aud the rJist.ributiou, limits, and peculiarities, of the country uncler inspectiou, all of which arc included in the operations of u geocl~sical survey. We, are told that despatch is one of the recommendations of the chrono· metric plan. Num~rous parties will probably, therefore, be inlmedi.atelr employed, and it will rern&i.n afterwards to harmonize their labors by joining the distant points of observation. To do this, will, wo conceive, be 110 easy task; Md, if such a plun be adopted, we shall not be listonished to learn hereafter that the attempt<'ld meeting of these qnconnected operations is likely to break up in tho most a<lmired disorder. We do not rnean, in· auy thing we have saicl, to underrate the value of chronometers in their legitimate sphere. They might, undoubtedly, be acl. vautageonsly emplo.yced in1Jhe :..preliminary. c.lf#tQrmina~ion of i~porfaiit points on the coast, which are known to be erroneously laid dowu.

3
.Their acc::uracy may be dep~nded upon within a mile, and o~en this imperfect knowledge will be in some degree a reliaf to navigators, where errors of alarming and uncertain magni1t1de are kuown to exist in their charts. Mr. Hassler has, in his letter to Mr. Gallatin, given to this proposition all the consideratio11 it merits.'" If i:md1 occusional use should l;>e made of them, and the present system of survey should be continued, subsequent. comparisons will abundantly prove, that.even the simple determination of geographical positions by chronometers (omitting all question of a connected survey,) however skilfully and cxJ.feusively conducted, is unavoidably defective. In a matler that· 111ay be snhjccted to rigid mathematical investigation, · res~lts are anticipated, and conclusious distinctly enuncin.ted. But perhaps it will 01iforcc our argument l<? exhibit some facts that have immediate relation to the present inqniry. We select such us are nearest at hand. An attempJ... ·was mado to determine the place of tho Capitol, Ly means of chronometers, by Mr. Paine, of Massachusetts, a gentleman distinguished for his zeal and ability in those calculations. He curried thre,e chronomo· tors from Boston to Wushingtou, through Philadolphia,_and back, observitJg the difference of meridians of thn three cilius, both goin~ and returning. The }'.esults of these are spoken of as importaut. The ditlereuco of his two longitudes of Washington, by Phila<lclphia and by Bostou, is 14. "ll5. The ·difference betwee11 tho 1Ueau of his observations and the adopted longitude of Washington is 12. "O ; whilst .Mr. Paine's longitude of W~1shington differs from tfie meau of scvun resnlts of astronomical observations, solar eclipses, and occullntions, by ·U. "4. t In tlie trigouometrical smvey uf tlw Stllte of Massachusetts, begu1i in 1S3 l, and concluded al.out u. year since, cmbrncing a territory of s,2so square miles, we find a11 exlllnplificatioit of our argument at once pertinent' and conclusive. · · ' A letter from Mr. 8imco11 Borde11, tlio superintendent of this survoy, fo the American Philosopltical Society, in ndditiou to au account of the work, gives a "co111parison of hi~ own rosults with those obtained by Rob'e.rt Treat Paine, Esquire, from observations with a Troughton's sextaJl.t atid mercurial horizon, and chronometers transported to different stations." In tho longitude of Pittsfield the chronometers exhibit a difference of 28."98 1 nearly Olll~ half of lL mile j yet thirty-nine chronometers Were US6d in thirteen journeys. The uwridians of Cambridge ancJ Dedham · are 3.'30. "43 apart uy trigonometrical measmement; the chronometers giv(I tbt\ difference of longitude 3.' 11." IO, making nn errnr of 19.''33. In the case of Cambi-idgc, twenty chrouome.ters were used in six jonrneys, and''in that of Dedham twenty-thrnH chronometers i11 seven journeys Gloucestet· &Q.d Plymoutli, both !iCaport towns, which ought thcirefore to be known·correctly, coincide in longitude within ~.''JO. The chronometors have j~. creased that c.lifference to 8.".5.5. This instn.nce illustrates \Vhat we lLav'e before said of the incapacity of chronomotcmi to note minnto differences of local time with the requisite accuracy . .Williamstowu, where twenty-eight chrouometers we1·0 employed in ten journeys, is placod 19.''2<1 to tho west of its true position. We have aJ.
... ---.- .. -- ------ .. ----··-·---------.. · America.n Philosophical Transaclio11s, now aoriea, vol. II, pp. 238, 239. t l)elf.rminatlon of the longitude of aeveral ,,fationa, &c., reporled by Seara (), W ·Iker. Arnerican Phi101<1phical Tramactirma, vol. Vt, p. 266, note.
--·~------·

____________

--Bee

4
ready- remarked, that Pittsfield is ·28."98 in error. Tt.e sum <lf these two variationi;_is 48. "22, or eight-tenths of a mile, and one.third nearly of the difference of longitnde of the two places. The longitudes of Williamstown and Dedham, as decided by the chronometric method, present a discrepancy of 29. "32, or one-half a mile nearly. Fifty"one chronometers, in seventeen journeys, were used to fix the posil ion of these two towns. Other instances might be added to this list, but ·the table of comparative latifodes demands a passing notice. The determination of t'his element, as is well known, is much less liable to error. A combined difference of 9. "86, or one-sixth of a mile, appears in the latitudes of Boston and Squam light; and here· the industry of Mr. Paine accumulated no less than four hundred and eighty altitudes for the determination of these two places. Three hundred and ten altitudes place Amherst 8."70 south of Cambridge; but an error of 4."80, more than one· half the difference of latitude, js proved in these observations, by Mr. Borden's measurement. · The two greatest errors in this table arc 7;"30 and 7."81, the sum of which makes the possibility of error amount to 15. "It', or one-quarter of a mile. We add one more case. Mr. W. C. Bond, the distinguished astronomer of Harvard College, whose remarkable accuracy and skill in the use of instruments place him by the side of the best European observers, says, in a paper now before us: "In June; 1839, I had observations with a transit circle, the illuminated end of the axis east and west, on the 16th, 17th, 20th, 2 lst, 23d, 24th, and 25th. These observations gave for the latitude of the insfrument, 42°.19.'I 6."9." Reduct:d by the measurement of Mr. Borden, they determine the latitude of the State House, in Boston, to be 42°.21.'S0."3'". Mr. 'Paine's observations with the sextant and artificial horizon give 42°.21.'22."7'", Four hundred and forty-two altitudes were tak1m by Mr . .Paine, yet these insufficient instruments, in the hands of one perfectly skilled in their use, and guarded as far as possible against error by multiplied observations, fall short of the truth 7. "6. Mr. Hord en's latitude of the Sta to Ho11s~ differs three-ienths of a second fram that of Mr. Bond's."' The comparison of the precision of the two methods afforded by the Mas9achusetts survey is highly favorable to sextants and chronometers. It would be too tedious and expensive to apply to a great extent of territory, including a lar¥e and indented seacoast, the reiterated and laborious processes of Mr Paine. · · The survey of a portion of the earth's surface i9 a work which come9 within the domain of the mathematics. It. may safely be said that any determination of a place, in which the mathematical theory is disregarded, must be fundamentally defective. A reference to this theory brings us to an argument which, we trust, no misapprehended views of science, and no '.Preconceived notions of utility or expediency, will overlook. · · The system of triangulation, conducted upon the principles in physics which direct this department of 3cience, takes into consideration the sphe· roidal forll) of the earth, and enables the surveyor to construct such a map of that portion of the spheroid which is comprised in his labors, as will be an exact represen.tation of its real figure. This mode of surveying, and this only, regards the earth as it actqally is, in its irregularly elliptical f~rm,

will

1

· Proce,dinga of the Americai. Pliilo1ophical Society, May and June, 184 t.

5
delineates its surface correctly, and treats of the true measure and eonfigu· ration of the planet on which we live. Topography, and many of the de-. tails of physical geography, come within its province; as the course!! of rivers, the direction and elevation of mountain ridges, the nature of the. land, &c.-knowledge which is essential to the defence of tho coast, to the construction of fortifications; and to all tho duties of the military engineer. It furnishes the most, accurate and convenient bases, from which a network of triangles may be thrown over uny of tho States through \\!'hich it has passed. Some of them have already nnited their local operations with the genera.I survey, to their great advantage. We may add, finally, in relation to this topic, that, when we a~·o called npon hereafter to make our co11trib~1tions to the common treasury of similar knowledge, this work will supply the requisite data for the measurement of degrees on the eal'th's smfoce, and for the" accurate determination of the elements of the terres&rial spheroi_d." It promises also to be of especial value in giving future security ~o the intricate navigation Q~ the Southern shores, a pa rt ll'f the co11st of the.£Tnited Stutes rendered particularly dangerous hy numberless reofs, shoals, and sandspits. It is well known that theso are variable in their limits and cnnditiou, grnduully forming in sorno plac·:", and in orhers changing their extent and direction, under the influence of violent winds and strong currents. In order to acquire a permanent und useful knowledge of their character, and to provide an accumulation of facts that wiU lead to. an understanding of their probable format.ions, dispersions, and changes, a ce1'lain knowledge of their present state is indispensable, beyond that which can be reached by sextants and chronometers. Rigorous observations upon these nnd similar subjects in Europe, by geologists and other men of science, ha\'e resulted in great benefits to navigation. . The increasing commerce at tho South, the future establishment of naval stations there, and the close and hazardous sailing that must be pursued, both by merchant. vessels and men of war, in th~ event of 'foreign aggression, make it desirable that the in-shore navigation of tho Southern coast should be well understood. We have already shown what deg.rec of reliance may be placed upon the chronometer under favorable circumstances and in skilful hands. We are justified, we believe, in saying, that longitudes by chronometers cannot generally be relied npon as correct within less than one mile. But shoals of light · and unstable sand', beaches widE111iug and narrowing, and downs accumu111.ting and dispersing, under the action of local aud general causes, demand accurate measurements of feet and inchc~:, by means of which the operations of nature may be carefully studied, future obstructions be prevent~ eel, present ones be removed, if possible, and an effectual security be given to tho pilotagc of rhc Southern coust. A trigonometrical survey, made with all the.fidelity that the improved stato of the science ensures, is the only method adapted to the attainment of all these desil'ablo objects. Some complaint has been made against the superintendent of tho coast survey, because i1s results have not been published, from time to time, as they have been dete1·mined. The power and duty to direct both the manner and thQ time of their publication rests with Congress, and to that body snch n complaint may be appropriately referred. ·A full and sufficient reply to this charge is contained in the report. We may add hero, however, for general information, that engravers are uow employed upon the first sheets, which will probnbly be issued in the course of tho coming summer; aud,

as the plates come from the hands of the engravers. When these. chart~, executed :with pr.ecision and elegance, under tlJo sanction of public authority, are produced, we shall, for the first time, be able 10 look npon similar works, contriQuted by the English and French Governments 10 tho safety of commerce aud navigation, without e.nvy and shame. Much is said of the expense of the survey as at present conducted. In this matter we urn not particularly careful to answer. An honest and prudent appropriatioll of the public money wo are willing to leave in the handa of those to whom it is legally in trusted. In this case, at least, \·ni may be contented to confide in their integrity. Economy, it is true, is a virtue; but mere saviug is llot always economy-it may b'e tho 1i1ost imprudent waste; aud, being satisfied of the paramount importance of this work, both to the public inter.est and to the national honor, we might say, without fur; ther comment, that it should 11ot be interrupted. Jt .is in accordance, how. over, with our previous remar.ks, to add, that ihis is ,one of those cases in which.economy is not idc11ticul with retrenchment. If chronometers possess in themselves au insurmouutablc tendency to enor, the SL1rvoy under· taken by their wean~, and dependent on l!ieir results, is 1101 likely r.o be ever completeu. · What is certain to-day m:i.v be doubtful to.morrow, Subsequeut '·observations may bring discredit upon those \Vhich have gone before; and it is to Le appn;heuded, that, however multiplied they may he, so far frnn1 ultiwatcly removing tlw difilc11lty, they will 011ly serve to strengtheu rlonbt and increase perplexity. · Besides this, cxperieuc11 will prove that tlie repeated truusporlation of nuniernus cbrouomcters will be attended with but li1tlfl less expc11se than a regular aud ~cientific irnrvcy. :\:> sonw ground for this opiuion, we shall refer again to the high authority of J\fr. Paille. 111 a letter to tlie Bureau des Lotlgifodes at Parit;, hn gives the longitudet> of several towlls in Mas· sachusctts, the resnlts of his own observations, and 1:1dd.s:. · "These longitudes have been generally determined by the transportation of time repeated several times with 11111nerous chro11ometers. Thus, be. tween Northamptuu and Boston, I have carried seventy-four chronometers in twenty-four journeys; ·between Amherst (the college) and Boston, or Northampton, twenty-seven chronometers iu uine journeys; betwt~en Barnsiable and Hoston, fifty-nine .chrouornetcrs iu sixteen journeys; and b~ tween Gloucester and Boston, sixty chronometers in sixteen journeys."" We have here au cxalllple of the manuer in whichchro11om1itersare employed in the hands of a sk!l~nl obs~rver. In estimut.ing their u~e for a surv(ly of the coast, the addttlO~'al nf'k of tru11sportul10n by seR 1s to b"' added to this account. . The financial departmeut of tlw coast ~iurvey docs not, howc\·er, 1wesant any thing so startling as to J'eudcr these statements 11ecessary for. its de. fence. They are in themselver:; valuable facts and co11side1'1ltions, te11ding immediately to elucidate the subject, and weighing heavily against the proposed chauge; but· they aro ·not, we imagirw, essential to vindicate the pre!!· orit plan of operations from a liUBpiciou of waste a11d extravagance. Since the year 1'332, sixhnndrcd al1<l twenty thousand dollars have been appropriated to this service, one hundred and twenty thousand dollars of
- - - . . . .. . ..... ···---·...... ·.·· ··-- -·--·-· ·--·····- ·-····· Connaiatance de6 'J'emp11, 1843. AJ<U.1io11~, p. Oli. Tho Additi'.on11 cl Currtcliona. 1ur Table11 du Poaition11 Geograpl1iquea, hy Mr. Dnus..y, will repay a critical eumlna1ion.

if the work .is corilinued, the publication .will horeaftf:r take. pla<;.e regnlarly,

------------·----·-

-

~--

li;1

7
which remains on. hand, in the foril1 .o( vessels, insirumente, and other prop· etty; J~avir1g a buhrnce of five ~undred thousand dollars to be charged to the survey. When we QOnsider that .this expenditure extends throllgh a period of ten years, that ·it has been bestowed upon a great national work, of the highest importance to the commerce and defence of the country, that it is a contribution to knowledge, and that its investment in this way has gone further than any thing yet aone IO establish the character Of the COUD· try abroad fOl' a liberal 'patro11age of scie11ce, we are not disposed to regard it as an expense which the strictest economist may not approve. · As to the a mount of money and probable length of time reqllired to com· plete the survE-y, w~ cannot do better than to say, that these questions are ably and properly treated in the documents before us. "With the advancement of the mathematical antl physical sciences, the means of acceleration of any work grnunded upon them also increase. All that is nMded is, that the whole work be carried on in the most economical manner." (p. 11.) We are satisfied that its progrei:is will compare favorably with that of any similar work in J<::urope; and we are not willing to be behind the old world 111 accuracy, and in houora ble and permanently mefui results. . The course pursued lias already met the approbation of men abroad em· inent in science, and practised in such works, whilst.at ho1ne the survey has more than repaid the sums drnwn from the Treasury by the benefits it has conferred upon two of the largest commereinl cities, New York and Philadelphia. It ought to be 11 suflicient a1·gunwnt fol" its continuance, that it has discovered what othor operntio11s, though oftc>11 repented, failed to fiud out; and its success heN was owi11g to strict conformity to the principles of surveying, which alone a scvnre science 1·rcognises. It is needless to i:iay, that the duratior_1 of_t!w work is ind~finitely pn~tracA by tli~ frequent i~torrnp tions to which 11 hns been s11b.1cctcd. lf it wtW' pernutted to C'llJOY the friendly a11d intelligent patronage l)f Corigrrss and the GoYemment, the greatest 11urnber adrni8sible of ftssistu11ts would he .employed, and all the rapidity of execution consisrc11t wirli nccnrary would be sccurC>d. Mr. Has!ller has givAn a list of similar work· which have been execllled, a11d arc now in progress~ in Europa; from wltic\J it appenrs thut not only flourishing kingdoms, bnl even petty princip11litics, hnvo made their triangulations. When we co11t.emplato rhe wealth, extent, and dignity of this vast empire, we feel tbut the' hope is nor 11nreai:io11abl~ whieh looks for enterprises suited to its condition. But science, which knows no limits either of power or· 11ation11l boundary, finds a home among tho thrones and insignifi. cant dominations of Italy and Germany; and, if it be rejected from the councils of this uation, will confer upon rheir humble princes a distinction before which wo must be content to bow. The abandonment of this work will not fail to be regarded in Europe both as a calamity and a dishonor. The impress of instability, wliich seems to be stamped upon every public measure, might nt least be removed from this, in which all parties and all prejudices may u11ite und harmonize. The survey of the coast has already created a distinguished school of topographical and hydrographical engineers, thus overcoming onu of thfil early difficulties in the undertaking; it will further contribute ro erect n ~ta11dard of science, the practical value of which we cannot now discuss. Should some ·other mode be adopted for the time, there can be small doubt that tlie present method, the only one which strict science appro,·es, will be hereafter resumed; and "the chances

of an ~ocumulat.ion of ~rrors upon such a long extf!nt. of sea coast as that of the United States, particularly iu the direction in which it lies, will be too gteat, and the consequences of a want of system and care too glaring, not tq bring discredit and shame upon a less accurate operation."" .
· Paper1 relating to the Surtity of the Coatt. vol. II, p. 400. Ar»erican Phiw1<>phical 'lhin1Q()/ion1, new

Mrit·,

UPOll TR1'

Sn1"\"C)' of the Coast of tlie United States.

1. The law authol·izing the survey of the cousL was passed February 10, 1807. 2. Circular letters were addressed by the Treasnry Dopurtmcut to va-

rious scientific men in the United States, asking for a plan of operations. Thirteen such were received, and submitted to a commi.ttee of learned men in Philadelphin, with the late Professor Patterson at their head. After full consideration, the plan proposed by Mr. Hassler was adopted. 3. From the passage of the law until .I 811, no active steps \Vern taken, in consequence, principally, of the unsettled state of the country. · 4. In August, 181.1, Mr. Hassler was sent to England to procure instruments, in accordance with the plan proposed by him in !S07. These instruments ha<l all to be constructed; anrl, for the purpose of superintending the same, he remained in England until 1815, at which time he rell\l'ned to the United States, with all the instruments and appendages requisite for the work. The war, want of remittances for payment of the ins~ruments purchased, the difficulty of procuring suitab~e artists to construct the same, &c., couspired to prl'ltract his stay in England nearly two years beyood the time which he hud allott.ed to this part of his labor. 5. In August, 1816, Mr. Hanslcr was appointed, to superintend the survey of the coast, under the lnw of 1807. The necessary preparations for the work, including reconnoitring,, &c., consumed the time between August, 1816, and April, 1817. At that period a proper locality for a base line was discovered in New Jersey, and in July of the same year the actual triangulo.tion was commenced. 6. April 14, 1818, that part of the law which authorized the employment of persons other than those belonging to the army and navy was repealea, and thus was Mr. Hassler's connexion ~ith the coast survey closed. 7. Up to this period, the whole amoun\ expended for tho work was $55,634; of this amount, $37,5t9 bud been expended for instruments and the expenses of procuring the same, leaving about $18,000 for the cost of the survey, equipment for the field, &c. 8. In 1819, Mr. Hassler presented to the American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia his papers upon the coast survey, describing the method and means by which it had been designed to conduct the work, together with full descriptiocs of the instruments, with drawings of same, examples of the journals of observations, &.c. ''1.'hese papers were publisht::d by the Society, in their volume of Transactions for 1825, and nre now in the Library of Congress; they contain much valuable nnd interesting ioformation upon the subject. They were reviewed by t.he principal astrono.mers of Europe-Bessel, Struve, Schumacher, Ferrusac, Francoel!r, Krusenstern, &.c.-aU uniting in the opinion that thu plan of Mr. Hassler was of the first order, and that the inrUruments were in every manner adapted to the pnr· pose for which they were designed. In 1832, a distinguished astronomer

2
of France, now employed by the Gjj'ernment of the United States, de~ clare<l that the instruments planned lly Mr. Hassler for the coast survey, aud execut"Cl under his eye, were, when constructed, twenty ,years in advance of the science of Europe. 9. In 1827, the survey of the coast, after a lapse of ten years, again excited public attention. The Secretal'y of the Navy, (Mr. Southard,) in describing certain surveys which had been made by naval officers for an especial purpose, stated in his annual report that "the time within which it was supposed desirable to make them,. [the surveys,] and the means granted by the appropriation, did 11ot permit them to be so made as to furnish perfect surveys and charts of those harbors ; nor can su.ch surVf!JS be made without the aid of the means contemplated by tlte act of lOtli FP.bruary, 1807, to provide/or S1trvejjing the coast of tlie United States." In 1828, the Committee on Naval Affairs addressed u. letter to the Secretary of the Navy, (Mr. ·souteard,) asking information in reference to the survey of the coast, to wit : whether it ought to be made ; the best plan for making it; what progress had hertitofore been made, &c. In reply, he proceeds to say, after referring to a list of maps and charts," of the whole of the maps and charts iu po:isession of the Government, it may be remarked that they do not furnish a satisfactory survey of the coast, for the following reasons: " I. They exhibit detached parts, unconnected with each other . ."·2. Are generally confined to the shore, and do not extend sufficie!Jlly far into the ocean. "3. Were many of them made by incompetent men, with incompetent means. "4. They were governed by no fixed and certain principles or guides, in ascertaining the latitude and longitude of the principal points and positions. "5. They do not embrace the whole coast. .(,For these and other 1·easons tliey are unsafe, and, in many instances, usele.,s and pernicious." 10. In answer to the question,'' Whether, in the opinion of the Department, such survey ought to be made?" the Secretary replies: " Upon this poirit no doubt is entertained. It is called for by regard to our commercial and naval interests, and to our means of national defence. I do not under.stand that you require a ~tatemen~ in detail of the reasons for this opinion; they will readily suggest the1nselves to every mind." 11. July 10, 1832, the law of 1807.was revived, and the employment of such "astronomers and other persons" as the President should deem proper · · was again authorized. -12. At the request of tlte Treasury Department, Mr. Hassler submitted .a plan of operations f6r the work, being, in fact, the same which he had proposed in 1816. On the 9th August, of same year, he was again appointed to the survey, and to carry into effect the law of July 10. Prior to this period he had been. employed by the Treasury Department in making comparisons of the various weights and measures in . use at the several custom-houses, with a view to the construction of uniform standards Vf 1,he same for the Union. · 13. The two works, of the coast survey and that of the construction of standard weights aud measures, being, by their nature, intimately conn~ted, and the means of accomplishing each being in many instances the same, Mr. Hassler was charged by the Treasury Department with the

execution of both; and,·sin,co the period referred to, the two works have received his whole attention. 14. Since 1832 the survey of the coast has been diligently 1)rosec11ted. The remainder of the season, between August and December of that year, was employed in reconnoitring and other preparations; aud early in the following year, 1833, the triangulation was recommenced, and pas been making steady progress from that time to the present. In 1834 a new base line was measured on Long Islaua, and the secondary triangulation, hydrographical work, and plane-table surveys, have also been in active progress,

pari pa.<'su.
15. By the official statement of the Secretary of the Tr()asury, (Doc. 57,

H. R., Jan. 31, 1842,) it will be seen that the aggregate amount expended .
from 1808 to 30th June, 1841, is $512,731 68; of this sum, by the same statement,· $33,723 05 has been 'expended for the purchase of "instru~ ments, books, and repairs of instruments." This, with various sums expended for 5 surveying vessels, 20 boats, with all the requisite accompaniments, and the necessary equipment for the several parties eugaged in the secondary triangnlation and plane-table work, makes a gross sum which exceeds $120,000, for objects of a permanent nature, now the property of the coast sL1rvey. This would redute tho amount expended upon the work itself to $392,731 68; if to this sum be added the whole amount of the estimate of the Secretary of the Navy, for difference between shore pay and sea JJay of the officers, and for pay and rations of tho crews of the several vessels, from 1834 to 1841, ($114,584,) we shall have a total sunt expended of $507 ,31 'i 68, for about 11 years of actual work, or about $46,000 per annum. · 16. WheH the operations of the coast survey, nuder Mr. Hassler, were 11uspended in 1818, by the repeal of a portion of the law, the system which he had adopted was also suspended, and thenceforward detached portions of the coast were assigned for survey to naval officers, from time to time. Indeed, this samo system, which wns condemned so thorongh\y by Mr. Southard in 1828, a11d for which the sound reasons quoted from his report, at the 4th page of this paper, were give11, is still pursued-at what expense exactly we have not the means of stating. An approximate estimate may be formed, however, from the following facts : 'I'he'dircct expenditures, us exhibited by the printed state111e11ts ill the office of the Register of tho Treasury, from 1818 to 1841, are $63,520 20 ; the incidental or i11diroct expenditures do not appear, bnt perhaps an idea of the extent of the same may be formed upon the following data: In 1832 $5,000 wero appropriated for the survey of Narragansett bay, in Rhode Island. There wero employed in this work, 1 post captain, 3 lie11tonants, 5 passed midshipmen, and 18 seamen, for one season, say six months. This appropriation of $5,000 is nearly T\th of the whole amouut of direct expenditures. Adopting the same principles in eompu1iug the cost of the work chargeable to the naval estnblishmcut, which tho Secretary of the Navy adopted iu stating $114 158,t 11.s the amount properly chargeable to the coast snn·ey, for difference between sea and shore pa.y, and subsistence of officers, and pay and rations of seamen, we shall have a gross snm, for six months, of upwards of $4,000. Therefore, for every $5 1000 expended directly for the work, \Ve should add $4,000; and this, for the $63,520 ~o, amounts to
· There is au error in this p11rt of tho Rugistcr'd atatemont; for the original cullectiou of inell'U· 111,eut1 co1t f87,6411, and 11.dditional in1trument1 1ince been procured.

b·"'

J
$50,800. I infer, also, that nothing is included in the above $63,520 20 for purchase or repairs of vessels, equipment, &c., these being provided, as usual, in the general expenses of the naval establishment; on the contrary, both purchases and repairs of vessels, boats, furniture, &c., is chargeable upon the coast survey fund, for all which now belongs to the work. Here, then, we· have a sum of $114,320 as the cost of some detached surveys of portions of the coast. Surveys of this na.inre, and those which are executed upon·proper principles, are so unlike in character that they do not ad· mit of comparison. · We proceed now to state briefly the principles upon which the ;nrvey of the coast is conducted. The principle upon which the survey of the coast is conducted is, essentially, that which is known as the trigo.nometric method. By the relations which subsist between the sides and angles of a triangle, we are enabled, from certain known datn, previously determined by actual measurement, to compute certain other parts which are unknown. . Far example: in a . given triangle, by measuring one of the sides and the angles, the two remaining sides can be determined by computation. These computed sides then serve as bases for other triangl~s, and, subseqnently, by measuring the angles alone in the triangles thus formed, the work is extended ad libitum. This is called a triangulationj and may be made upon arty part of the earth's surface upon which a line of a given extent can be measured. · t. A triaugulation may be compiete in itself, and, when the necessary cor· rections have been made for the figure of the earth, the actual distance between two points can be accurately determined. But this, alone, is not all that is required; it is necessary to ascertain the true position of the district or country triangulated upon the earth's surface-that is to say, its latitude and its longitude. The first of these is independent, it being simply its distance from the equator; while the second is not independent, but refers to the position of some other point on the earth's surface, and under another meridian. This latter place or meridian may be assumed at will; and the question then to be determined is simply the difference in time between the two places of observation; and this, being converted into degrees, constitutes the longitude, or rather the ditfcreuce of longitude, between two placei:;. For these determinations, observations upoH the heavenly bodies must be resorted to. It is not necessary, 'however, that celestial observations should be ma:le at every point determined by the triangulation; on the contrary, a few well-determined positions, ascertained by a lon'g series of observations, often repeated, are ~ufficient, the connexion between the same being determined by the triangulation ; hence the survey of the coast, as now conducted, is made by combined or mixed geodetic and ustronomical observations. Here, then, is the essential difference between a survey by triangulation and astronomical determinations, or even t.hc so-called ''chronometric survey," (a misnomer, by the way, for it is not a s1iruey.) Oue consists in a connected work, carried on upon the earth's surface, and made by means of an uninterrupted se1'ies of triangles; while the other is comppsed of a collection of observations upon the celestial bodies, made at detached points, each place of observation being independent of the other. In the nrst method the connexion is complete, while in the others there is no connexion whatever.

5
To the question, whether the mode of making the survey of the coast by triangulation is better tha.n any other, it may be said to be the only truly correct method which can be pursued. It is the only method by which a connexion in the work can be preserved. Of its accuracy the proofs are continually before the observer, il.nd an error need not b1;i extended beyond a single triangle. The three angles are measured in evel'y principal triangle of the work ; and, as this is all the measuremeut which lakes place after the base is determined, it is obvious that tl'ie observer has his proofs of correctness continually at hand. There can be no cooking of observations, as is sometimes practised in astronom\cal determinations. An idea of the exceeding accuracy attainable in works of the nature re· ferred to may be formed by referring to the account of the measurement made by the French astronomers of the arc of the meridian between Dunkirk and Cabrera, for the determination of the figure of the earth, being 12 degrees of latitude in extent. After a great number of triangles had been measured, !lnd an extent of about 500 miles upon the meridian determined, (between Melun and Perpignan,) a base of verification, as it is denominated, was measured.at Perpignan. 'rhis verification consisted in mea.turing with the greatest accuracy one of the sides of a triangle in the series which had been previously determined by computation from the original l:lb.se. The difference br~tween this computed side and the actual measurement was less than 2 foet. '* In the work of the survey of the coust, the secondar,y triangulation now encompasses the southern part of, the Stale of New Jersey, from Staten island to Cape May ; one series of triangles was carried nround on the east or coast side, while a second was carried down the Delaware river and bay, uniting near the southern point of the ·State. The length of the side of the triangle which was common to both se1 ies was, of course, determined by each chain of triangles-one by the coast, und the other by the Delaware bay; the difforeuce between the two determinations wmdwo metres, or about six feet. In the primary triangles this difference will, from present appearances, be Jess than one foot. . Surveys of all the countries of Europe havo been or are being made by the system· of triangulation, to wit: Austria, Russia, Sweden, Denmark, Hanover, Prussia, Swabia, Bohemia, aud the States of Germany ge11erally, Italy, Naples and Sicily, Switzerland, l<'runce, England, the British possessions in India, nucl the French colony in Algiers. "Europe is covered with well-connected sel'ies of triangulations.-from the south of Sicily to the polar circle; from Ireland, throngh England, France, Germany, to the interior of Russia; from Bordeaux to the frontier of Turkey, und iu all the intermediate parts." . Some of the practical benefits which have resuJted from the coast survey are already apparent. The discovery of the ship chnn11cl into tho harbor of New York, the better detel'minations of· the channels into Dela wara bay, and the detection of the grossest errors in the existing chartis of that bay, constitute a portion of the advantages which have already been derived from this work. · The engraving of the chart of the bay and harbor of New York, with the country adjacent to the same, within a circuit of twenty miles, is now
·La Place.

6
ln progress; two sheets, embracing the entrance to the harbor, with the channel delineated thereon, are already in a state of great forwardness, and, in all probability, will be completed by the 1st of June, 1842. To the question, "Whether no other mode exists by which accurate :re· sults can be obtained w.ithin less time than they can be .furnished by a trigonometrical survey," the answer is, No. Therq is no sliort meth.od by which these results are attain.able. It is not the "quantity" of .triangles alone which determines the industry or skill of the observer, but the quality. To make the triangulation of a given district of country with the least possible number of well-conqitioned triauglcs, is one of the important problems to be solved ; quality, again, and not quantity, is the esseqtial requisite. Usually, the experience of the wol'ld is justly considered when any great object is to be attempted or effected. Why should it be excluded from tl)e category, in judging the merits of this magnificent work? We have the combined tesrimony of all the science of Europe in favor of inaking surveys by triangulations, and, in fact, the positive assertion that it is the only proper method.· \Vhy should we not adopt the conclusions of Ulltions which, to say the least, arc older in these malters than we ourselves are, rather than to resort 10 methods which are a ce11tury behind the age we live in? 1 Why, with the great advantages which the "chronometric system'' is said 10 possess, is it not adopted by .those who are best capable of judging . it by its m1nits ? Rather let the whole work be destroyed, than to suffer it to be done discreditably. If we cannot make it in a manner ,which shall bear the scrutiny of the E.cientific world, let it rest for another fifteen years. Sextants and chronomerers are invaluable instruments in their proper sphere, but they certainly do not furnish the means by which triangulations are to be made, or correctecl, or superseded, as some would seem to desire.

Organization
tent.

of lite work.
·~

1. The main or pri11wry triangulation, upon w.hich all the work depends, is made up of triangles having sides of from 10 to 50 miles in ex-

The angles in these triaug\~s arC> all measured by Mr, l.Iassler.

2. Within these main triaugles, smaller trianglcR ·are formed ; this con-

stitutes the secondar.1J triangulation; the sides of these vary in length from 2 to 10 miles. The ang~es of these triangles are mcaRnred by the assistants of Mr. Hassler; two und sometimes three parties are e11gnged in this part of the work; usually they enter the field in March and April, and leave the same for the calculations, &c., in the office in December. 3. The secondary triang11\atio11, in turn, forms the basis of the planetable or topographical surveys ; these include all the details of the ground, outline of the coast or shore, courses of bays, rivers, roads, &c. This portion of the work is distributed amoug 5 or 6 parries, each having. a district of country allotted to it. A party consists of 1 assistant and .5 or 7 hands, according to the nature of the country to be surveyed. These parties usually take the field in April and May, and return to the office, to make up their plottings and maps of the work of the season, in No"·ember. . 4. The hydrographic determinations are made entirely by the naval assistants of Mr. Hassler. Points on shore ure furnished hy the triangulation, both·main and secondary, together with the coast or shore line from the plane-table surveys. By this means the sounding parties are enabled to

7.
determine the true position of their soundings, by measuring the angles subtended between stations previously established upon the shore. Two parties are engaged in the hydrographic part of the work, each being furnished with·the necessary assistants from the navy, and with vessels, boats, &c., belongin!l' to the coast survey. These parties are engaged iu their labors upon the coast from April or May to November, accordi:og to the character of the weather ; in the winter months they are employed in laying down upon their charts the results of the work of the season. TNo triangulation now extends from Narragansett bay, Rhode Island, to Cape Henlopen~ Delaware, on the coast, and from the neighborhood of New York to the head of Chesapeake bay, covering an area of about 11,000 square miles. The hydrographic surveys cover 5,600 square miles, and the topographical or plane-table surveys 4,200 square miles. This work is represented upon upwards of 200 maps and charts, of various scales, according to the nature of the work, from rrlrnr to H"l!'hiri that is to say, one foot in extent upon the map will represent, according to the 'Scale used, 5,000 feet or 100,000 feet upon the earth's surface. · The actual length of coast line, (including Long Island,) already deter631 miles mined and laid down upon the map, is Do. of the larger bays, rivers, and islands 697 " Total of shore line, coast, bay, &c.
Clu.m'ficati~n

· 1,328

"

of the cxpense.1.t

The whole amount expended for the survey of the coast from the appropriatim' therefor, for the year 1841, was
$96,174 98. 1. Of this sum, the general expenses of the work, including

the main triangulation, compensation of all persons cm~ ployed therein, instmmcnts and books, and all expenses not enumerated in the items below, amounted to $3::: ,u71 09 2. Tire secondary triangulation, including compensation of persons therein employed, 3 parties J 9135.2 06 3. The hydrographic surveys, including the co:::t of repairs of the vessels, boats, &c., and allowances to ntlictirs for expenses, 2 parties and 4 vessels 25,459 16 4. Plane-table or topographical surveys, 'including compen18,692 67 ·Sation of all persons employed therein, 6 parties 96,174 98

'rhe conclusions which are <lcducihlc from the p~eccding remarks may be summarily stated thus : 1. A vuiling ourselves of the experience aud practice of al I European nations, it is just to conclude that the survey of the coast CUil only be made (if it shall be accurately executed) by a triaugulatio11. 2. Conceding the ground that it is by a triangulatiou alone that exact results can be obtained, it mu.y be shown, by a reference to the history o{ similar works, that tho methods pursued iu executing the survey of the ,coast of the United SJatcs are, iu principle a11d in details, in accordance with the best of those adopted by other nations. · WA.sHINO'l'ON, February 25, 1812.

