26th

1st Session.

CoNGREl:lS 1

Doc. No. 261.

Ho. oi,·

REPS.

1"'reas. Dept.

STANDARD WEIGHTS ANU MEASURES.

g:,
I(/~

,,..

LETTER
t'l!OM

/

f/rJu s.(.,.

~

/f6

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
TRANBMITTINO

A report of F'. B. Hassler, Superintendent of the works Woights and .Measures.
JULY

of Stcmdurd

21, 1840.

Rencl, nnd laid npoh the to.blc.

TREASURY DEPAR'rMEN'l' 1 July 141 184.0. Sm: I have .the honor to transmit, herewith, n report mnde to this department by Mr. F. R. Hassler, superintendent of the work on standard weights and mensurcst showing the progress made therein, and representing that the standard yard measures, prepnred for the respective Stutes, under the joint resolution of Congress of the 14.th of June, 1836, are completed and ready for delivery. All which is respectfully submitted :

LEVI WOODBURY, Secretary of.the Treasury.
Hon. R. M. T. HuN'l'Im,

Speaker

ef tlw House ef Representatives.
July 10, 184.0.

WASHINGTON 0I'l'Y1

Sr n : 1. By tho present I hnve the pleasure to inform you that n number of standard yards (forty) have received their final adjustment and comparison in this establishment, which will be suflicient to enable to offer to each State the one decreed by the joint resolution of Congress Of 14.th June, 1836, and at the same time to furnish the principal custom-house.s with this most desirable pnrt of the standards. . 2. A further number of these ynrds are in such progress ns only to need the final verification, which will enable some time next winter to deliver the whole of what is needed, to complete entirely this part of the system of uniform standards. 3. I take the liberty to suggest that this information might be communicated to Congress, in order thereby to invite its members, und particularly the Senators, to call the attention of the Governors of the States to this sub·

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387

Doc. No.

~61.

Ject, that these yards may be called for, under their orders, for their respective States. Those for the custom-houses being, of course, directed to their destination by the 'l'reasury Department direct. 4. 'l'his might be nt·the same time nn invitation to those Stutes, who hnve not yet taken the sets of standard weights, which are here ready for them, (as Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Arkunsas, &c.) to induce the Governors to give directions for both yards and weights to be safely.conveyed to their destination. . 5. The form selected for these standards, us most proper to secure their safe preservation, bus already been mentioned in my report of 1832, upon weight and measu1·e comparisons. In a future general repor~ upon the operations, principles, and works that will have been employed in the whole of the constructions of the uniform s.tandards of weights and measures, n mare detailed account will be presented ; here is tatber lo be presented only that part of it wbich is necessary to guide the pernons who may have the gtiard and use ofthese standards at their places of deposite. 6. Each st11ndnrd consists of two parts, being brnss bars, of which the one presents the yard, and the other the matri.1.:, in which the yard fits exnctly; they, therefore, preserve one another mutually, and present themseh·es like one bar. Both bars are of equal thickness 1 of about-!! inch, the same as the scale of 8~ inches of Trough ton, which forms the well npproprinted original (If all the length measures. 'rhe one bar presenting the yard length is 1,95 inch broad in its mi<l<lle part, for exactly the length of the yurd. At each end ofthe yard exactly, this breadth is 11erpendic11lnrly diminished for 0,9 of nn inch, so that the outer parts of each end, which cxtcuds sfill 2,5 inches farther, is only 1,05 inch in breadth. 'l'he other bur presents in the middle part, for the length of the yard, a breadth of l, l inch; nt the end of that pnrt its breadth is perpendicularly increased for 0,8 inch, so us to preRent the form of a lying L, extending 2,4. inches farther outwards, presenting a brendth of 1,9 inch in that extended pnrc. , 7. The broader part of the first of theRe bars being adjusted enctly to the length ofone yard, within the purls where this breadth is perpendicularly cut off, to the diminished breadth of 1,05 inch, forms most purticnlurly the standard; this po.rt fits so exactly in the narrower middle pll.rt of the second bar, which forms a matrix for it, that great cnre is required, when they are brought together, to ruovc the bars exuctl y parnlled to each other, that the accurate fitting may not be disturbed by n slnnt pressing of the part forming th<J joints, which would make it shake in the fitting. S. The distance between these two cndjoiutR, presented by its lines of contact, is the nctnnl length of the yard, as standnrd. 'l'he two parts protecting each other by their close fitting, whilo the outer parts of the same bnrs haYe a vacant space between them, in the direction of the length, of about one-tenth of an inch in breadth ; which is m'nnnged expressly lo admit n. wed{!;e-formed, piece of soft wood, by which the yards are gradually sepnrat. ed, when needed. . · 9. It is evident, from the above description, that this joint, formed by the perpendicular cuts of these two bars, forms the most important: as well as. the most delicate, part of the standard ; and must, therefore, not be opened and shut, without there being an important comparison of other measures with the standard to be made by (what is culled) contact. . IO. When both parts arc united, this joint cnn be brought under two microscopes, and thus may servo for comparing other yards with it, by the

Doc.

No.

'261.

3

samo method which hns boon employed tQ compare these very standnrds with tho scalo of 82 inches of Troughton, tho mean ynrcl of which has been ndopted as the most accurnte standard of tho English measure in this country, and is considered equally so in England. To procure the proper distinct vision for such n use, which is not obtained by n polished surface, tLo polish of the yard is interrup e<l at these joints by n nnrrow strip, from which the polish is taken away for about l-tenth of an inch, parallel to the joining of the ynrd o.nd matrix. ' 11. To focilitnlo the trncing from this standard yards for common use, there has been added, upon the matrix pnrt, a y1rnl divided into tenths nnd hundredths; n right angle and scriber are in the box, so nrrang-ed as to facilitnte the tracing of the snmc divisions upon n piece of metal, or wood, . lnid parallel to it in the pince destined for it in the box. 12. Every applicntion of mathematical principles to subjects of pructicnl natural philosophy, furnishes a proof, thnt tho physicnl menns, whn1evor, and however pcrfoct, they mny be, will nlways lcnve n certnin distnnco between absolute tnl\themnticnl accuracy nnu tho resnlt of our best exertions· und assiduity. 'fo requce this dist;mcu to its minimum, is the nim of nil nrrnngements, and the hnrdest task of the oporntor in such n work. Cer. t<'in limits nre, therefore, nlwny~ ncccpted, within which tho cxnctitndc must he bronght; nm] tho vnrintions within these are to ho obserrJcd, registered, nnd, in 'u11y cuse of npplicntion, ncconnte<l for. rrhu limit within which such 1\ lntitndc in tho nccurncy mny he allowed, is every time given by the nntnre of the problem, and the nim nml npplicntion of tho physical result of the operation. 1~. In the it1dividuul cnse of tho ndjnstmcnt of lnng-th mcnsnros, this limit must be brought within n microscopic quantity, so thnt, in nil applications, to even ~cnernlly considernd nccnrnte works, no di!forenco may ho observable with tho means in npplicntion in common life; thoreforr, nlso, tho ynrds herr.with prosonted nm to ho considered in this light. rrhcy nro nil bronght,within the limit of less thnn 1 rr~ 1111 of nn inch; thnt is, within nho11t r.n?iririT pnrt of tho whole, or suppo~e to l yard in about 7fill,OOO. While cnlculnting npon tho mean of the rcs11l!s oftlie 11ltimate comparisons, the nccnrncy would bo within abont one ynrd for ono million ofynrds. Of the vnri1ltions within this limit, a rcgnlnr register hns be<'n mnde. 'l'o cnch of tho yards will, thcrefol'c, be given n certificate or statement of its individnal difference from tho absolute ncourncy. IJy this menus, they will nil ho exactly compnrnblo at nny time hcrcnf'tor, if they arc properly nnd snfoly preserved, nnd compared by menns of microscopes, or similar porfoctioned means. For thnt purpose, ulso, they nro nutnbered, so ns to, distin~nish ench individnnl from the others. In tho ultimnte ucconnt of nil the works for tho system of stnndnr<ls, tho foll register of tho ynrds will contain, with ench nnmber, the individunl stnndin~ of each ynrd in respect to this minntc-

uccnracy. 14. For tho proper manner of using these standnrd yards, it will hu
proper to mnko ngnin nn ndequnto instruction, to be ndded to cnch box, the snme ns hns been done for tho weights; which will bo joined here. 15. To add· 11 few words upon tho olhc1· po.rt of the works fol' tho coMstruction of stnndnrds, I mny state here, thnt tho cnpncity monsnres, for liquids, hnve passed n first ncljnstmom nnd vcrificntion, br the woighing with distilled w1Lter, nt tompemtnres ncnr tho mnximnm density of the wn\et ; n\way! teduc\ng to that 11oint of tompemtmc, ns tcqnited by the proper

4

.Doc. No. 261.

principles. They arc, therefore, in readiness to receive their final adjustment next winterj when the temperature will ngnin be fo.voro.ble for the · work of final adjustment. 16. The mechanical work of the half-bushels is very far advanced; n large number of them being constructnd, and the boxes for them even tnade. The weight of the half-hushel, in metal and in water, exceeds the capacity of the balances constructed for the standard weights. 'l'o obtain the greatest accuracy in weighing, the balance, and the weights for which it shall serve, must be in such proportion to each other that all the necessary strength and stiffness is obtained, with no more weight of the balance (which always acts as o. dead weight) than what is required to obtain these qualities; for it is evident that, by otherwise equal accuracy of workmanship, the sehsihility of the balance is determined by the absolute weight of the bnlance and the weights together. 'l'his dictates, for this cnse, a bnlnnce of considerable strength, because it must be able to bear the double weight of the bushel with its appurtenances. Such an appropriate balance is now constructing here, of a solid brass beam, and with such arrangements as will serve conveniently in its special use. . 17. After this balance will be finished, it will be proper to begin the works for the balances to be made for the States, in conformity to the juint resohto 'tion of Congress of J1Ily: 1838. , I have the honor to be, with perfect respect nnd esteem, sir, your obedient servant,

F. R. HASSLER.
Hon.
LEVI

WoonBunv, Secretary of t/,e Treasury of tltc United States.

l11struclion upon the safekeeping of the standards in comparisons, l}-c.

of yards, and their 11SC

1. 'rhe stnndard shall never be touched with the naked hand, warm, or in nny way damp, from perspiration or otherwise; it is proper not to suffer any dust to collect upon it, which could occasion hard rubbing; any dust i~ to be removed, in any case, by wings or feathers of a 11Jild bird, because they will not occasion any scratches, like the wings of fowls, ducks, &c., wonld do. 2. It must not be removed from its place in the box, except for the most irnportnnt comparisons of metallic measures. 3. 'l'o tnke it out of the box, if necessary, the followini;:- is the best process: While the box is shut and hooked, turn it upside down upon some table; by that means the standard will come to lie upon the velvet lining of tl1e cover; in this position the box is opened: nnd the two parts of the stahdard may be separated by gently taking hold of the two ends, and, by equal ancl gradual motion, applying the thumb to the yard part, nnd the middle fin~er 10 the matrix part, pressin~ them apart from one another; or, also, by inrserting into the spnco left between the two bars at those places, two light pieces of soft wood nt each side, uniformly, until entirely disengaged. Then the parts may be removed for use, each sepnrntely, with proper care nnd management ; both parts cannot be moved together, because their pressure

·Doc. No. 261.

5

nnd friction within· one· another can and shall not be such ns to hold ihem> together sufficiently for that purpose. 4. In putting the two parts together, the same movements of the two parts parallel to one another, nre to be made gradually nnd gently, in inverted order and effect; nfter nn ·entry of the yard into the mntrix is first ob· tnined, by a contnct of Jess than five hundredths of an inch nt ,each end, until the two parts close fully together. 5. For nny common comparison of scnles of wood, or other mnterials, or the division of any such scale, the part thus fixing the actual standard is not to be used; therefore there is ndded upon the matrix a scale divided into hundredth parts of the yard; this division being habitually, and most· conveniently, used in the custom-houses. 6. 'l'o use this division, to trace a mensuro from it upon n rule, yard, stick, or other similar, there is added in the box n right-angle, with a handle over it, which is placed by its under-projecting part in contact with the outer edge of the matrix, while the upper part, projecting in both directions perpendicularly over it, is applied to nny of the divisions by the edge of the farther part, while its nenrer pnrt, in continuance of the Rnme line, serves to truce the corresponding division upon the bar to be divided; for thnt opcrntion, the bur to be divided is plnccd in the near part of the box excrwated for Umt pnrpose. Jn tltis place, or deepening, the Ecale to be divided is held fost by pressing it to the inner side of it, by means of the small wedges and the brnss pins projecting frorn the nearest edge, nnd pressing the bur hnvnrd from the side nearest of the box ; this inner pnrtition of the box is parallel to the standard, when this touches the near side of its location, forming the partition between the two. In this position the division is to be mnde. . , 7. The nrrnngernent jnst described will be found sufficiently nccurnte for common measures ; bnt no beam-compasses of any kind are admissible, in: no wny whatever. :F'or fully nccurnte copies of the standard, from between, the butting-pieces, various methods mny be t1sed, completely different, nnd grounded upon various principles; us, principully, by menus of microscopes and tracer, or by the feeling lever. The description of these, in detail, would be too long here; they belong more particularly to the o'.ctual scientific use of standards, and may therefore best be supplied by the man of science having charge of the work. My· report of 1832, upon the comparison of standard weights and measures, may be n guide in the case; and various other works, well known to professionnl men, will assist in planning nr· mngements, according to the meuns and circnmstnnces of n given case. 8. When brass scales arc to be compared with the standard, or to he made from it, the cqunlity of the metal with thnt of the standard requires only the precaution to have both stnnclurd nnd scale of tho same tempernture; which is genernlly obtainnble by laying them together the evening before the work, und by the proper care not to give them unequal warmth, by to\tchin~, by draughts of air, or such like. But, when different metals are used, it becomes necessary to keep account of the difference of expansion of the metnls employed. . 9. To focihtute the reductions of yards, of different or the same metal,. for different temperuture11 1 it may be convenient to find here the expansion, for the following metals, viz :

D®· No... 201.
A ynrd expnndfJ, for one degree· of Faronheit's in lornpernture, i~ decimals of an inch. . . . In platinum · - 0,0001848384 In. brass - Q,0003732508

In iron ·

=- 0,000250687~6

Which may serve for the reduction to a given temperature, of ynrds, for these three metals, which nre those most hnbitnnlly nsed. '
WASHINGTON· CITY,

July 10, 1840.

26th 00NGRESB1 2rl Session.

[SENATE.]

{iOJ.

REPOR'r
FROM

I

~" lts-'

,/ g-f.fo

'rHE SECHETARY OF THE TREASURY,
TRANBMITTINO

s~.1-e..

A repart of Professor P. R. Hassler, superintendent of the coast survey1 and the fabrication of standard weights and measures, o/p.
DECEMBER

15, 1840. 21, 1840.

llend, nnd )llid_ upon the tnble.
DECEMBER

Ordered to be printed, and tho.I 300 o.dditionnl copie~ b~ furnished for the use of the Senate.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, December 14, 1840. Sm: I have the honor herewith to transmit a report made to this depart~

ment by Professor F. R. Hassler, superintendent of the coast survey, and of the work for the fabrication of standard weights and measures, showing the progress made during the present year in those works respectively. I have the honor to b0, very respectfully.!. your obedient servant, Lt.;VI WOODBURY,

SecretaNJ of the Treasury.
Hon. R. M.
JOHNSON,

President of tlw Senate.

Niutlt report of F. R. Hassler, as superintendent of the survey of tlie coa8i of tlte United States, and of the construction of standards of weights and measures, rendering account of the works of 184.0.
1. The task of the coast survey for the present year, ns well as that for: the construction of standards of weight~ and measures, has been in part' stated, and intimated in my last yearly xeport; it has boon pursued with' all attention and diligence, it was somewhat more complicated than in. the preceding years, as may well be expected to be inherent in such kind i of works, in proportion as they progress. 2. Notwithstanding the calculations consequent to the primary and.. secondary triangulations, are a\ways carried on immediately after the field: work, and in proportion as the data are obtained, a full repetition of the '. series of calculauons was required, and occ'l.1pied several calculators all' last winter, principally on account of the Elpecial- task of executing the

{20]
map of the harbor and neighborhood of New York, and by the bringing together upon the, so called, register maps, the full connexions of the works, for future use; of these it was required to begin a second sheet for the part of the country south of Raritan bay, to the mouth of the Delaware, which will receive considerable filling up, by the works of last summer. 3. The projection, and reduction of the map of New York, was begun upon the scale of 1 to 30,000, in duplicate, by two assistants separately, both equally reducing from the original topographic':l.l maps, resulting from the plane-table works; these two original reductions will verify each other, and prevent accidental errors, each of them will have its particular useful destination, which will appear in future. 4. The detail topography of the surveys in the field being grounded upon the triangulation, it is proper that the reduction of the results of it be again grounded upon the same, whenever any part of the work shall be brought into execution, for the construction of a map. 'l'o obtain this aim I adopted the following new method: all the triangle points being placed in the projection, made for the map, by their latitude and longitude resulting from the accurate calculations, just mentioned, by their rectangular ordinates, referring to the nearesf sides of the respective quadrilateres of the projection, the lines of triangles therefrom resulting upon the map, are used as abscisses, to which every detail point is referred by its rectangular ordinate, referred to the triangle sides. 5. This operation is very satisfactorily executed by rules and rectangular triangles, divided one set upon the scale of the original, the other set upon that of the map to be executed. By this means the union of the great number of detail maps, which in a large work concur in a reduced map, is obtained with the greatest accuracy, and the most ease, therefore also celerity. I make this detailed statement, because the indication of this method may be of service to gentlemen, who may have similar works to execute. 6. 'rhe copper-plates for this map, which had been ordered in Vienna (Austria) have arrived in due time, by the kind assistance of the United States consul Schwarz at that place. 7. All the works here stated have of course required considerable of my personal attention and attendance, they are now in full active, and regular, progress; adding to this the propriety of finally executing and comparing the number of standards of yards, upon which I have had the satisfaction to report to the Treasury Department the 10th of July last, there was sufficient good ground for me, to delay my going out in the field, to measure angles for the main triangulation, until later in the sci<son; some of my assistants being engaged, during that time, in reconnoitring preliminarily for appropriate station points. for these triangles, at tho same time that they pursued the secondary triangulation, a work which would have cost to me a considerable loss of time, in travelling about the coun,try, which I considered far better employed in the manner I did. 8. This latter part of the season in which I am now engaged at the main triangulation, has hitherto been very favorable, and promises to continue so still onwards ; this is so much more desirable us the nature of tho country presents considerable difficulties by its configuration. If the weather of the coming season will allow it, I shall keep the neld for tho measurement of angles for the main triangles as long as ever possible,

3

(-20

l

after which l intend stin, under the favor of the woods being free of leaves, to reconnoitre myself for the discovery of more southern points for the main triangulation. 9. The elevations on either side of the valley of the Delaware, through which the main triangulation must necessarily pass, as has been already stated in my first plan of operation, are so little prominent, the one over the other: that it is difficult to find such as are elevated enough over the others, to a1ford a view to a sufficient distance, clear from intervening interruption. This occasions of course frequent cuttings of wood upon many hills, which arc not always easily acceded to by the owners. 10. The denser atmosphere of the lower countries, and particularly the circumstance consequent thereto; that the rays of light between distant objects pass nearer to the surface of the earth, form a considerable impcdinient to the good vision required for the work; even the heliotropes, which render so essential services in the triangulation in general, by their light :penetrating through a denser atmosphere than any signal, become by it rnconveniently large, and diffused. The heliotropes llnd to be not only considerably multiplied, on account of the number of statious requiring them, but also I gave them u new form, easier transportable, and of little work in the construction, and the mirrors of the older ones were reduced, by diaphragms, to less than one-third of their size, to circles of about one inch diameter, this size proved far better appropriated to the shorter distance of the triangle points, und diminished very much the so inconvenient irradiation, which the larger square mirrors present in a denser atmosphere. 11. Two secondary triangulation parties were cn·,.aged this year, as habitual, the one following mainly the country west o? the Delaware, and southerly to the head of the Chesapeake bay, over which triangles are laid out farther south than last year, tho irregular conformation of the elevated parts of that country, and thuir generally more extended flat tops, lead naturally to equally irregular combinations of the triangles. These works therefore include all the State of Delaware, and parts of Pennsylvania, New Jersey und Maryland. 12. 'l'he monuments of the Mason and Dixon line, which are met iµ the course of this work, were found up,nnd triangles projected, by which they will be united to the general triangulation, which may afterwards be pursued further southerly and westerlyJ us 'Yell for the purely scientific purpose stated in my former report, as otncrw1se. It appears that some of the principal monuments at the north end of the line have been moved, and in general that not much attention has been paid to them since a long timo; there is however still information enough obtainable for the approximate verification of the scientific result, which I mentioned as the only use proper for the coast survey work, to make of these monuments, for they do not enter into consideration in that work in their quality of limits. 13. The other secondary triungulation party was engaged in the southern part of New Jersey, laying out u triangulution, from some lines of the other party near the Delaware, towards the Atlantic to the east, and towards the southern extremity to Cape May. By these triangles the detail works of the Jersey shore, of which the topography had been surveyed lust year, will be joined to the main triangulation, which, as above stated, must pass the shortest way through the

4
valley of the Delaware; and the further continuation of the survey of the Jersey shore, as well for the topograp,hy, as for the hydrography, will be grounded upon them in the next operations of tliat kind, o.s well on the side of the Atlantic, as on the side of the Delaware. ·The absence of all prominent elevations, and the wooded state of all except t~e lower valleys, renders these operations very tedious and timeconsummg. 14. As stated in my last report, there were yet some parts of the topography in Connecticut and Rhode Island: that had not been reached by thA works of the previous years, on account of the close attention which was always given to the wants of the naval parties in the Loug bland sound, whom it was necessary to supply constantly with the elements required for their works; the topography of these parts have been filled up this year, and also what remained of the parts of New Jersey to the southwest of Raritan bay, and a part on the Huchmn river, yet needed to fill up the map of New York. 15. After the completion of these works, the topographical parties were turned, at different times, upon the parts of New Jersey between the formerly establishecl shore-lines of the bay of New York, or rather Raritan, on the north, and the last year's work on Barnegat bay, and that neighborhood, to the east, as far south as the strength of the parties allowed to extend their tasks. 16. In this part of the work will necessarily also be included a part of Pennsylvania, in which it has been necessary by the configuration of the country to step over with the main triangnlutio11, so much the more: as an important seaport Philadelphia uml its approaches and communications, with the northern parts of the country, form a very essential part of the survey of the coast in that neighborhood. 17. Two naval parties were employed again this year, as formerly, but each of them had two vessels, instead of one as before, the two additional ~ vessels were transferred to the coast survey from the revenue service, one each party, they are both very well spoken of by tho officers having command of the parties, as well appropriated to that service &c; the ex,renses occasioned by their purchase, their repairs and fitting up appropr1atel y for the service in that work, occasioned of course additional expenses, which had not been taken into consideration in forming the last year's estimate for the coast survey appropriation, thence coutributed considerably to the diminutiou of the balance of funds now in hand for the coast survey work. ' 18. Both the naval parties bad, like the topographical parties, still to fij.l up small portions of their work, at the eastern extremity of their fori»er works, on both sides of Long Island sound. 'I'hc oue in Fisher's sound, and the other about Block Island, and the eastern extremity of :(.ong Island. These tasks were only of short duration, and of course executed the first. .· _ _ 19. The variations which all seacoasts, and particularly those of our c;ountry, arc subject to in the depth of their channels, made it proper to ipquire if any change had occurred in the depth of the northern channel or' the bay New York, discovered by this coast survey; this channel was therefore sounded again, in the whole of its separate course; the rea\ilt was folly sati~factory; indicating rather a smaU deepenil1g of the channel, than any ·d.iininution of depth, so that full reliance m11y be placed,, upon its permanency.

to

of

5

[ !lO

J..

20. At the first beginning of the works of the coast survey, I had intended to carry on constant observations of the declination of the magnetic needle, and its variation, at the stations of the main triangulation, by which some data might be obtained, at different parts of the coast, upon this im· portant clement of this guide of the navigator, but the general press of the work not allowing to devote time for this purpose, the plan was abandoned after the first year; so much the rather as the main stations lay mast ~enerally more inland, than an adequate conclusion, upon tho bearing of the needle on the approaches to the shore, could not fairly be drawn from them. 21. But I considered it proper, and advantageous: that nt the entrance of the principal ports, such observations shonlcl be made once, for a certain time, as will give a proper fixed epoch, with correi-:ponding determinations for this clement; such as may be used and referred to in future; and which it will therefore be possible to bring to permanent usefulness, by the guidance of the results of the regular series of observations of' the magnetic needle, by which its theory is now so extensively investigated. Such observations may so much tho rather be expected to become useful, us a regular magnetic observatory is now established at the Girard College in Philadelphia, as it would be desirable to establish also at other places in this country, in systematic order. 22. With this view there bus been made, dming the greatest part of last summer, a regular series of observations of the declination of tho magnetic needle, at a place near the entr:rnce of the harbor of New York, with a needle of one foot length arranged for inversion, and constructed for this purpose already in 1813. The observations were made by observing the magnetic bearing of one of the lines of the triangles of the survey ; this will furnish tho magnetic azimuth of that line, while the terrestrial azimuth of it is given by the survey, tho difference between them is tho declination of the magnetic needle. 23. From out of the harbor of New York an excursion for soundings has been made till thirty miles from the shore, in search of accidental notable difforences of souudings, which might occur; nothing deserving of special notice has ns yet been found, but such investigations are of course to be continued in future. 24. 'l'he sumo naval party executed also, at the same time, with the smaller ves!!cl belonging to it, tho soundings of the buys along the outer shore of New Jersey, of Shrewsbury, llarnegat, Tuckerton, and Little Egg harbor about as far as the topography had been extended iu that part lust year, and elements had been given for the naval operations, to attach the soundings to the topography; the outer shore of that part of the seacoast was of course investigated and sounded at the snme time. 25. The other naval party ,after having finished its work in Fisher's sound, was occupied in the riverand bay of the Delaware; regular series of observations of tho tide were made at different stations from Philadelphia to CapcHonlopen, the whole clistancewas besides reconnoitred with tho view proparatory to the full survey, and nccura.te determinations of souhdings, this will then be grounded upon the points of the two secondary trial,lgulations which embrace m~re particularly thqt riv~r u,nd bay, lllld t\1ose of the topographica.l survey, to be made of the two shores, simultaneously w.i~,h, these works, like this has been praqtised for thq Long lslaµ,d, sound, fl:Jld the othe~ ~1id.water~, b~thert,Q surveyed. , ·

[ 20]

6

26. This survey will re'quire peculiar attention on account of the variability of the courses of the tides, which are different in ebb and in flood, besides their being much varied by the winds, and other circumstances, by which the channels are most likely constantly varied, either temporarily or permanently, so that no chart at present existing is trusted to present any accuracy, though however that may have been the case at the time of their construction. 27. When I was in Philadelphia in 1806, Mr. J. J. de F'errcr, a scientific gentleman as well known in this country as in Europe and South America, and I, were consulted upon the means of removing a bur then forming near Fort Mifflin, which was thought to endanger the navigation of the port by permanency ; we were both equally of opinion that it would remove itself, by the nature and course of the working of the river, by being removed step by step down the river, until it should find a proper place to lodge its ground, and that so much the rather as a dum, then making at the Jersey shore of the river, with other views, appeared to me to have a tendency to promote this removal of the bar, from its then most unfavorable place; accor<ling to all informations this has been the case ever since, and the remains of this former deposito have almost disappeared in distributing themselves in the different opportune places which they met underways. 28. In the view of these circumstances it is evident, that there will be no just comparison possible to be established between the results of the present survey, and the older ones, made at different epochs, the certitude which the results, to be obtained by the present survey shall give, will therefore be the most important result; establishing a determined state of the river, at a determined epoch of time; perhaps the comparison of it with the older works may lead to, or at least furnish some data for, what might be called the history of the changes of the river, from which conclusions might be drawn advantageous for the fntnre. 29. The special principles upon which the instruments used in the coast survey have been constructed, have continued always to be very advantageous and appropriate; the shop established in the office, necessary to maintain them constantly in good serviceable order, has furnished besides a number of instruments,and implements,of much superior accuracy, and adaptedness than would have been obtainable in any other way, besides that being always at hand, and every. minute ready for such calls as cannot fail to occur constantly in such a work ; the gain in time is an additional advantage of great economy, it is therefore of essential benefit, and continually in full activity. Much of the parts forming in some measure materials for the works, have been procured, others ordered since more or less time, and not yet received, I have so much more hopes to receive them before the next yearly report, as I have had occasion to cause them to be pressed at their place of construction itself. · 30. Several years ago propositions were made on the part of the State of Maryland, upon whose territory the coast survey has now entered, to partake in the survey of the coast, by certain arrangements with the Treasury Department, the principal character of which would be : that the triangulation of the coast survey should be made to extend, at tho expense of the Government, farther inland, so as to serve as guide for the survey of the State, while the State would, in compensation of this, bear the expense of the whole of the topographical surveys, within its

7

[ 20]

limits, to communicate them to the coast survey; the whole remaining under tho same direction, and being carried on upon tho same principles as the coast survey has been hitherto. 31. A similar proposition was made in 1817 by the State of New Jersey, when the coast survey was begun in that State, but the interruption of the coast survey at that time interrupted the negotiation. 'rho double advantage that might result from such arrangements, with States partly covered by the coast survey, appears to me very evident, both in respect to the more economical manner in which by this mutual assistance the works would be made, as by the evidently greater perfection of both works, resnl ting from the greater extension of a regular system; it would· equally tend to accelerate generally the final execution of both so desirable works. 32. If any proposition having a tendency to that effect, should be made by the State of Marylaud, I wish to recommend it to the favorable consideration of the department; nearer particulars can be matured at the time, when the subject would be agitated, and the advantages to be obtained will then be ueuror developed. 33. In relation to tho amount of appropriation, which it is desirable to propose to Congress to grant for the coast survey expenses for the next year, I take tho liberty to propose again tho sumo amount of $100,000, which Congress has been so kind as to grant the two last years, it will appear by this report as well as by the general tenor of the work, and the state in which it is now, that its progress is just steadily going, adequate to that amount of expenditure, tho appropriation being geuerally nearest expended fully by the time a new appropriation is made, and if any reduction would be required in tho general establisl11uont now existing for the work, it would prove a much greater disadvuntuge, and in fact actual loss, than the amount retained by a lesser appropriation would warrant, or make advisable to expose the work to particularly ut tho present momentaneous state of it. I have also no doubt but Congress will willingly graut it, upon the confidence which I believe exists in Congress that the grants made for this work have always boon applied with all possible economy, to the best advantage of the country, and that the work executed by their means are of great value for the general interest of the country, and adequate to the grant made for it. Upon lite coustruction of standards

of

wcigltts and 11wasm·cs.

1. Since my last yearly report upon this part of my works, which is always, like now, added to that upon tho coast survey works, I have had the honor to address to tho 'I'reasury Department a lotter announcing the readiness for delivery of forty-one yards £nlly adjusted; haviug there also said a fow words upon the other parts of the works relating to the con· struction of ntandards of weights and measures, I shall hero take tho liberty to rofcr to that letter for the most part of the account which might be given of these works since lust year's report, and relate only what re· ferred to the continuation since thou. 2. 'l'ho direction of tho 'l'reasury Department received in consequence of tho above lotter, having been: to send to certain named custom-houseif eighteen of the yards thus finished, they were placed in proper packing· boxes, with paper wrapped around their inside mahogany fitting-boxes, and delivered to the collector of the customs at Alexandria, to forward according to their respective directions. The other twenty-three were

[·20]

8

equally packed, and prepared for delivery, the ns.mes of the States for whom they are intended are inscribed upon them; they are therefore ready to be forwarded, when called for, upon the invitation which the Treasury Department has·dirccted to these States. 3. The quantity of standards of weights, and the yards for the States, just stated, fully ready and on hand in the office, all reported upon, made it desirable to make room for the other works now on hand, which required the full room again by their increase; with that view I took the liberty to propose, to deliver all this work, fully ready, and reported upon, into some of the vaults of the Treasury Department, for safe keeping; upon the answer of the Treasury Dep:irtment acceding to this proposition, I delivered seventy-nine boxes of full sots of standard weights, packed ready for forwarding, which were deposited into a vault selected in t:he Treasury Department. Among thm;e are yet several sets belonging to States wlto have uot yet called for them, upon repeated invitations. At the same time there were deposited in this vault the twenty-three boxes of standard yards destined for States, the names of which they arc inscribed with. The number of boxes deposited being thereby eighty-two, and the whole number of boxes delivered on that occasion, including the yards for the custom-houses, were one hundred and twenty. Thrn gave l'OOffi in the office to establish more order, and the free motion necessary to carry on the works still to be done. 4. The works which I stated in my letter of July as in hand, and yet to be executed, have gone on since, in the full proportion to the time elapsed, and will continue at the same rate henceforward. 5. In the winter it will Le proper to take up again the revision of the liquid-capacity, measures by weighing, up to their final adjustment, (but the boxes, which shall contain them when finished, arc not yet made.) After these operations, which will still occupy some time, it will be possi · ble to begin the adjustment of the half bushels, of which the mechanical work is finished., 'arid which are placed in the boxes already made for them. 'l'hese two operations of adjustment will be the most tedious of the whole work, the great attention to he paid to the reduction for physical influences in the weighing, with the daily renewed distilled water, requires much attention, and the long-to.-be-continued equal strain of attention in the sameness of weighing, are. very fatiguing labor, to which no interest of variation or means of verifying the works, by varying the methods of operating, can he applied, like I did in the smaller weighings, by introducing a combinatory method, which excites some interest, at the same time that the independent mutual verification, which it affords, relieves the mind of the operator from the anxiety accompanying such operations, upon their success in accuracy; the masses to be weighed are too large to admit combination, which besides would become too complicated an operation. It can therefore also not be expected that they can progress with great celerity, or be pressed onwards in a hurried manner. 6. The plate-glass covers for all the capacity-measures, ordered at the plate-glass factory of St. Gau bin, have arrived in due time, and are fully 1Jatisfactory; by this the whole of this part of the establishment of standards, will present the most complete, and extensive systematic collection, that the present state of means, and knowledge admits, and as accurate as the wants of any transactions of the society requires.

F. R. HASSLER.
STATION MoUNT HOLLY,

N. J., Nov. 17, 1840.

