.

27th

____

CoNGRllSS,

2tl Session.

Doc. N'o. 2s. ·

Ho. OP lhPs. Treas. JJept·

COAST SURVEY.
--~----------

o2q6
,115·

f1B.

lf.Jf)_. .
THE SECRETARY 01'"' THE TREASURY,
TR.UU14lT1'1 !rG

..11 report of F. R. Hassler, s.ftperintr.n.dmt o.f the co<1st survey, sliowing tlie pro{fress made tllerein up to t/1e prese11t time .
· TANUARY 3, 1842.
RemJ, anJ loiJ
u~1on

the tahle.

TaEASURY DEPAllTMEN1·,

December 30, 1841. ·

Sm: I have the honor to transmit, herewith, a l'cport from F. R. Hass1er; Esq., superintendet1t of the coast survey, showing the progress made in the work up to this time. Though this report of the superi11teu<le11t is chiefly confined to replies to tho inquiries co11tai11ed in the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 24th of June, yet, ns it also exhibits the present couclition nnd the extent to which the survey has been prosecnled, it is thought expedient lo lay it before Congress, under tho impression that it may supersede the uc·Cessity of submitting nn nnnunl report on tho subject, us heretofore usual at the commencement of each regular sessio11. All tho data in the possession of this Doparlmcnt, for n.11swcring the res·· olution mentioned, h:ls been prepared, but that portion of it which calls for t~1c " indirect expenditure upon the survey by reason of the employment therein of the public vessels nnd officers,'' hns not yet beeu rcceivPd from tha appropriate department. It is, therefore, deemed advisable to awuit the receipt of this information before replying to the resolutiou. This information is expected-in the course of a fow days, when nil the inquiries <:ontainod in tho call will be immediately answered. All which is respectfully submitted. ·

W. FORV{AUD, Secrf!tary of Ilic '11rccuury.

Hon.

JoHN WHITE,

Speaker Ho.

of Reps.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387

2

Doc. No . .2S. ·
S·rA·r10N YAnns, NEWTOWN SQUARE,

Delaware G,'o., (Pa.,) December 9, 1841. Srn: With the present I have the honor to tranemit to you the answers: to the questions made in Congress upon the state of the survey of the coast under my superintendence, which have been communicated to me by your· Department, under date of 2d July, 1841, with the request: that I shoulu answer what in them relates especially to the wotk. I hope you will approve of the manner in which I have treated the different subjects; and I have no donbt that the account of the financial part of the questions, which arc of the special domain of the Treasury Department, will complete to satisfy Congress upon every poiut: that may ever have laid in the view of the questions. It will easily occur, that to render account upon the elementary scientific part of the work would be improper in a public document ; the principles of the science, and the manner in which I have applied them to the work,. l have published on the occasion of the interruption of the' work of the sur~ vey in 1818, in full, tho1~gh under the unavoidable supposition that the reader should possess the necessary mathematical elements, which can in no case constitute part of an account rend.ered of such a work. I have since introduced further particulars in their proper places in the yearly reports to Congress, and in other documents; the first is in duplo in the library of Congress, aml the second must be supposed known to every member 0f Congress. It is to be hoped that the attention excited by the call in Congress will induce the members of both Houses to visit the establishment for the work,. which isso near the Capitol, to inspect personally whatever might be further desired by any one of them in particular, to satisfy himself fully upon the propriety of every part of the work, and the manner in which it is conducted, even if no special inspecting committee, or sill}ilar, should be established. By the nature of the work and the extent of the establishment, such a way of informing Congress, upon all, would appear most speedy and ap~ propriate, as well aR the most effectual. . In the habitual course always followed for the works of the coast survey,. 1 wonld a.bout this time have rendered account of the progress of this work since my report of last fall, and added to it the state of the works for the ~tandards of weight and measure. But the intermittent fever, which has taken hold of me at this station, like it had previonsly in other places attacked several assistants, has hardly allowed me to make the fow observations of angles which the very unfavorable weather won Id admit of. I am,. by that circumstance, constrained to request that you will indulge me with the liberty to refer such a report to next spring, when I hope to be enabled to present wlth it, at the same time, standards of the liquid capacity measures, which I hope to have ready for delivery at that time. In tbe auswers to the questions of Congress, the actual state of the work at this time is, of course, comprehended, so that it will fully supply the pl:ice of any special yearly report that I might be .· ble to make. Since several years that the organization of the coast snrvey has been in regular comse and progress, the appropriation gran~ecl by Congress for the flame has been $100,000, which has prov1i1d most appropriate, and therefore most economical in it~: result in the ndequate advancement of the work. I take, therefore, the liberty to suggest that the same amount of $100,000

be requested from Congress fot th~ expenses of the coast snrV'ey work ~or the coming year, and I have no doubt but the insight given into the ~tate. . of the work and its organization will support the proposition witb full weight. Perhaps you may find proper to join to this report, also, my first letter· addressed. to the Treasury Department immediately on receiving the direction for. the answers to the questions proposed by Congress. · I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your obedient lilervant,

F. R. HASSLER.
The Hon.
\VALTER FonwARD,

Secretary nf the Trcas1iry.

Questions of tl1e resolution of Congress of Ju~e 24, 1841, 1·elaling to the surve,y of tlte coast of the United States, with the answers to the same, by F. R. HASSLER. ' Ques. 1. "The progress which shall have been made in tho survey of
the coast." The- works of tho survey of the coast cover now upwards of 11,000 tiquare miles, with primary nnd secondary triangulation, topogrnph}·, and soundings ; from the east e.nd of H.hode Island to the neighborhood of the Chesapeake and Cape May. This is evidently n grent progress for the time that the work has as yet· lasted; particularly if it be considered that every thing was to he createdeven the ability of the assistants, they being at first new in the business. It is actnally muclt m01·c than lws eve1· been done fo any similar work 6efore _; for it must he recorded : that since the first In w of 1807, nineteen years were entirely unproductive for the work, by postponement and interruption; five years wero used in procuring tho necessary instruments, und in preparations, as before that time there was not a single instrument, in this country applicable lo such a work. Only ten yours were employed i11 the nctuaJ work; of which tho two first, 1816 and 18li, were rendered useless, and the expeuses made became a bill of loss, by the overthrow of the work in 1818; so that the whole work uow producible is the result of hardly about eight yenrs actual work. , The gradual progress, year for year, has always been presented by my reports, once, nncl oftt'n twice, sont in to Congress by the Treasury Departmem, and printed every year, iu which I stated all that was occutring and of interest. Tho aim of the coast snrvey is, and has al ways been considered to be, by all tho successive administrations since its existence, to furnish, with the fullest accuracy possible, all the geographical, topographical, and hydrographical data that may in any Wl\Y be needed for the uavigation and the clofonce of the coast, in their generality, and to the extent of the country in the rear of tho coast, to which the valleys ox tend : that empty their. waters into the Atlantic, and nrc thus separated from it by some chain of mountains, or what muy be cnllcd the nearest chains of elevations separating the interior from the consting countries; and that this work should nlso furnish the elements to any future map of the country desired, as it is · by its nature so extensive, and so situated, as to fnrni1>11 the elements of maps of all the States. In fact, some States have already united in the work, to extend these cle:nents to the advantage of an accurate map of

these States.

4

Doc .. No.

28~

Ques. 2. "Number, location, and length of the several base lines meas. ured for the triangulation." 1n the works of 1817, two base lines had been measured preliminarily, :in order to ascertain within certain limits the accurar.y of the unit upon which the detail works, to be enclosed within them, might be grounded. One in English neighborhood, in the State of New Jersey, of 5,87209 miles, and one upon Gravesend beach, on Long island, of 4,81952 miles. Since the re.beginning of the work a base line was measured, in September, 1834, upon Fire-island beach, 011 Long island, of B,7306 miles at the level of the sea, with the apparatus thereto destined, with microscopes of double focus, and in all respects so as I have described it in my papers upon various subjects relating to the .wri·ev of the coast. (Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 2, 11ew series.) This base line serves now to the work as fully accurate unit; its being withiu the limits of the tide, dispensed of course to reduce it to the level of the sea. The numerical details and calculations are recorded in several folio volumes, containing some millions of figures, open for inspection to any man, but too long to transcribe here. For nearer accounts, see principal documents of the , survey of the coast, vol. 1, pJ.ge 17, seq.; letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, April, 1818, an<l report upon the coast survey, May, 1835, printed documents, vol. 2, p. 103. Ques. 3. "The number of the stations occupied therefor, (namely, the triangulation.") The stations occupied in 1817 were 11, forming the elements of 124 triangles. At that time I was alone in the work. Since 1833, the primary triangulation has occupied over 20 stations. The secondary triangulation has several hundred stations. In the tertiary and plane-table works the number of stations is much greater. These details can best be inspected, or inquired into, in the office of the coast survey itself. It is here only proper to remark, that the reducing of the primary triangles to the smallest number is one of the great requisites for the accuracy of such a work. To bring the irregular shape of the country inro the most advantageons regular mathematical figures, which is the requisite of an accurate survey, is what makes the strongest call upo111he science and ability of the operator; therefore its value and labor cannot he jndged by the 91utntily, bnt by the qualit.11 alone, which, to judge of, reqnires the same insight into the mathematical and physical sriences as the execution of the operation itself. The success in all thm;e things depends not only upon the instrumerits and labor of the observer, hllt still more upou the perfection of the method., devised for the work. In this respect I have the favorable unanimous judgment of the most eminent men of science in Europe, distinctly expressed in publications, (see documents, vol. 1, pp. 5.5, 59, seq.,) so that in fact the speciality of my met/iotl., are not only publicly !mown, but even publicly jurl!(ed, and approved, long ago. Ques. 4. "The observations made for and the corections applied to the sarne, (namely the triangles.") 'l'his would require to copy the journals of the observations which con'tain the reductions, and those of the results; both exhibit tl11e application· of the principles impliod, as I have exposed them in the memoirs of the Pl1i. losopbical Society above quoted; they must evidently be inspected in the offic~, in the about 180 folio volumes which contai.n them. It would be very ill-placed to repeat again hero mathematical clements already fully· e.X:·

Doc.· No .. 28.
posed; because this paper is official, and the p.roper authority must be BU,Pposed .in full possession of the means to judge upon them by their known simple scientific .principles, these principles being contained in the elementary works on mathematics. Ques,. 5. " The astronomical observations made for the determination of latitude and longitude.'' · Upon this question it must be nt first observed that the ultimate clause of the renewed coast-survey law of l 832 has cnt off tho most favorable means by the phrase-" provided, that nothing iu this act, or the net hereby revived, shall be construed to authorize the construction or maintenance of a permanent o.stronomical observatory." This prov.iso forms au unfortunate limitation of the work. The disadvantage therefrom arisiug for the acceleration uucl casing of the accuracy, by the deterrnina. tion of ever·staudiug points of refere1i1ce for the whole work, is too evident for men acquninte<l with its scientific requisites to need being tl'ented here. That the very object prohibited by this clause must uuavoidnbly, however, once be established in this country, is easily seen, us it is one of the requisite tools for n nation having a nuvy; if colone early enongh to let the coast slll'vey eujoy the benefit of it, the expe11su would be comparatively trifling, and immediately rer.overcd by tho udvantuges arising from it in this 11aliuntll worlc of the survey. Circumstnnccs hnvc not yet a"llowe<l to supply this nbsencc folly, nor is it the time, as yet, nor apprnpriate, nor 7>0ssible in the state of the work within the present limits of it, to do moro than whnt has been done, namely, the following: · 1st In 1833 and 1834, the first yours of tho new operations in the coast survey, observations for latitude with the sun, o.n<l with stltrs, were made upon every station of the main triangulation, with nu astronomical repeatiug circle of 18 incites diameter, aud with 10-iuch reflecting circles, upon uiy own plan of construction, which is such ns to compernm.te all thl" errors reflecting iustrumeuts llll\Y be snbjcct to. At several of these stations, also, azimuths were observed with the sun. 2d. A special station was made in 1838 upon Wenzel mntu1tain, near Paterson, N. J., for latitudes and azimuths; 1111d a solar eclipse, occurring just at that time, gave occasion for un obsen·ntion of lo11gitude ut the same place. 3d. Every i.::oln.r eclipse that has occ11rred during the time the work has us yet lasted, has been observed at some one of the survey stations. It is well known that all those results nre to be united, in due time, \Yith those of future times, into one general result, by means of the primary triangulation; while the results obtained hitherto, being for the immediate nse of the gel'graphical works of the survey onl!J, must be preserved within it uutil this union into a regular system is accomplished. It woulcl be highly imprope1· to give them to tho public earlier, us well according to good principles of scitmcc~ required iu tho work, as in obedience to a positive, and very proper prohibition, stipulated by Government in my origino.l contract of 1816, confirmed i11 1832. The results of the const survey constitute a property of the nation at largo, which it acquires by the labor and expense bestowed u'pon the work; for which compensation will, in proper time, be obtained by the authentic publication of the results. All interference of private publications a.re directly unjust, and derogatpry to the lawfully acquired property of the.

ttation, and the ultimate proper utllily o( the work.

Tl1e garbled· publi-

cations; which would be occasioned by partial commuuications,·would· interfere with very unjustly, if not destroy entirely, the adva.atages of the future authentic publication of the work in hs appropriate co11nexion, turning the public expense into profit for the private pockets of single fodividuals, having no exclusive claims to its benefit; and ·the public wot)~tl be deluded by being· presented with results falsely set up as authentic. lt is self-evident that none but the map& published by authority, as results of such a work, either deserve, or will ever obtaiu, the confidence which is an indispensable requisite in the C!'ltimation of the public. Tho Government that undertakes such a work takes by that act the en,,.ogemf'nt towards the public to provide such maps as shall deserve full anJ exclusive confidence ; therefore, also, it must discou12tenancc all that might have any tendency to occasion doubts. These considerations wore made by all the Governments of Europe which have executed such works. They have followed, in fnll, all the pri11ciples here exposed. It is a very essential consideration for the public secudt,11. aimed at by the work, to prevent nil possible abuse. The map of New York, 110\v in progress of execution, and engraving, will contain as much of these geographical data us belong to the part of the country which it represents, and so will, snccessivelr, every future publication within its limits. Whatever nearer particulars might be desired in this respect must he seen in the journals at the office, as the details would be by far too long for these answers. All this lies in the nature of the subject, and cannot be otherwise. By a rcgnlnr triangulation, the latitudes and longitudes of every one of the points of the survey arc determined with infinitely more accuracy from a few certain, and expressly madr, afltronomical stations, hy rnenns of the geodetical elements obtained by the triangulation, than by the direct celestial observations, which might be made cursorily at these points themselves; in fact, such results are not admissible in the comparison. Therefore, also, this hns al ways been the mode of proceeding, where no permanent observatory could be referred to, as the best principles in fact require. Ques. 6. "The work done by each corps employed in the service." The survey works are distributed by myself to the best advantage of the work, according lo the time, situation, and ca,pacity of the assistants, at any given period, in proportion and succession as they are wanted, uud not according to districts or localities. The works are contained in-' 32 folio volumes of my own observations and results; 90 folio volumes and cahiers of the assistants; 30 or 40 cahiers, folio, of calculations, and tables,&c.-ancl upwards of I 00 journals, of all sizes, of naval and tidal observations, soundi11gt1, and observations thereto belonging. To this I might be allowed to ndd17 volumes of documents of correspo11dence, and upon subjects of tho administration of the work; and a Lout 20 volumes of journals, calculatious, and docnmcuts reluting to the works for the construction of stunuards of weights and measures; 140 maps; and so charts ~f original works of the different assistants, upon different scales, from ~~ to "Km-a-; 2 register maps, upon a scale of n~1~n· keep account of all these works, and serve as guides to.select the original maps of any part of the work, Of ·which an abstract, or the execution of a map. for publication or otherwise,

Doc. No .. 28.
· may ·be desired.
ThesP. two ·maps exhibit the works done upon the 11,000 square miles collected together ; the one has 10 feot length by 4 feet breadth; the other, 5 feet length by 4 feet brnadth; 4 sketch maps, showing the present stute of tho triangulntiou, nud of the tQpography and soundings; and three or four similar ones, showing the state ef the works at each preceding year. A number of triangle sketches, and prelimiuary reductions of the charts und maps, for the use of the register maps, &c. The map of New York is executed double, in manuscript, besides tho engraving. Regular registers of all the journals and mops keep up, to every time of return from the field work, the accouut of thr whole work ; they are constantly open in the office for inspection, as well as the works themselves. Notwithstnndiug I am so well aware thnt also the elevation above the love! of the sea of the principal station points should be d<'termined, that in 1817 (wheu I \\'as quite aloue) I had begun it, I have been obliged to omit tho prosecution of this interesting subject, because of the more urgeut call for the geographical and topographical purt of the work, aud the augmentation of tho expenses which would naturally attach to it. The stations being well secured, so that they can fo1111<l i11 future, n1H.l the distances exactly known, this datum of the detail geography of the country can be ascertained nt any futnre time. Ques. 7. "A description of the charts pnblished, if any." Whenever a special map has bce11 called for, as cxtrnct of the works of the coast snrvey, it has been immediately given ; so have beenThe harbor of Bric.Jgeport and its neighborhood; The harbor of New Have11. and its neighborhood; The bay of Newark 11nd its neighborhood, These were presented to Congress, nlU.l published in the documents of

ue

Congre~·s.

Other extracts have been delivered in mannscript, \·;henevcr desired and .authorized, to different public offices, and otherwise. The map of New York is knowu to be iu u state of consiJcrnble ness; it will contain about 1,170 square miles of the work. Tho engl'aviug lms been begun. After that map is finished, it will be possible to proceed to a regular succession of publications, cast aml south of that pince, provided tho regular order nud progress uf the work be allowed to proceed fo all respects as it

forward-\

Ques. 8. "The umount of money expended from time to time since its ·commeucement." The ii:rst uppropriation, made in 1807, retmned nearly untouched to the surplus fund. In a similar muuner was the next following appropriation returned, because, nuder the expectation of wnr with E113lund, the actual work was always postponed. After my plans for the WOl'k of the survey hnd been discussed and approved, 011ly the late Professor Patterson, of Philadelp\1in, and I, were dil'Cctcd by the Presi<leut to agree, by corresponc.Jcnce, uvon the iustrnments, &c. In 1811, I wus sent to London to procure tho instruments for the survey 'of thP. coast, to be construrtcd upon my plans, pre\'ionsly presented to the Secretary of the Trensury a.nd to the l'nto Professor Patterson, and by them .approved. During my stay in London, the appropriation was suffered to expire, o.nd I was left in London two years upon my own private

is now organ-ized.

. Doc. No, .. 28.
means, as also for about one year yet after my return, to no smnll privnte economical damage. In 1816, new appropriations were made; of which, however, only about $13,500 were used for the work ; besides that, the balances due to me and for the instruments were paicl, and the whole remainder, of about $50,600 was transferred to the War Department, to enable it to continue the work; as the amendment of the law in ISIS admitted it; but, no action having taken place upon that, the whole of that snm, with the excep. lion of a few trifling expenses, cousequent upon the delivery of the instruments, returned again to the surplus fund. The statement of the Trcasnry Departmeut, handed in to the Sellute at tbc beginning of 1818, exhibits: Total amount of appropriation - $183,725 39 Remaining 50,59.5 39 Thence, apparent appropriation l ~33,l :m oo .Of this was returned to the surplus fund 79.00·1 32 Whence, total expenses for instruments, worl{, pay, outfits, &c. 54,125 IS

--·-·---

Dy which, aud by the statement just made, it is evident that for abont $40,000 the instrnments and objects of that kind were 011 hand. The accounts with the Trcasmy Department and the volumes of printed documents may he commtte<l for nearer details. The amendment of the coast survey Jaw of 1818, giving liberty to the Navy or \Var .Department to continue the work, it appears that there was something of that kind attempted by the Navy Department; by what means of appropriation, Oil' otherwise, I cannot say; ouly the fact is proved by the statement of the report of the Navy Department of 1828, which ·says: "Nor can such surveys he made without the aid of the means contemplated by the act of 10th February, lfi07, to provide for surveying the ~ast of the United. States." The Treasury Department has applied to the Navy Department for the .information upon tl1is point. The appropriations made for the coast survey, since its being taken upagain, are as folio \\'S : In 1832 - $20,000
1833 1834
20,0QO

1835
1836 1837

:w,ooo
80,000 60,000

:J0,000

1838
1839 18tQ

OE>,000

no,ooo

-

1841

100,000 100,000
Ci20,000 --

Total

-

It must be 1emnrkcd here: that, in conformity with my oJiginal request, always adhered to, the money for expenditnrcs does not pass thl'ough my hands, but all expenses are made, and attended to, by an accounting o.ffi ·. cer appointed upon my proposition, like all other assistants, a11d selected from among them, who renders account directly to the Treasury Depart~ ment.

·Doc. No. 28.
Ques. 9. "What ~sums have been appropriated for the purchase of instruments o.ud books?" , The original nmount expended for instruments procured for the .first establishme1it of the coast survey, ns slated in the preceding section, is about . $40,000. Since the recommenceme11t of the work, in 1832, various sums have of course been expended, us well to repuil' the losses which the collection had suffered dnring the iuterval, from 1818 to 1832, us for the uecesi;ary exteui;ions which the progress of such a work nlways requires. On another hand, many instrnments have been at different times given off to the Departments of War, Nuvy, and State, nnd nlso to tho Slate of J.tfas.rrlclmsett.~, for their use ; because they could be got much better nnd quicker from this Cl)llection, and from tho workshop which i!I attached to the coast survey, us nu absolute requisite, that the work muy not be stopped in its progress. . ' 'J'he details of tltcsc trammctions must be collected from the accounts rendered by the accoun I ing otliccr of the coast survey to tbe Tfcasury Department; tliey would fit only an accessory document, to be made hr the Treasury Department or the ucconnting officer, ns voucher to tl1ese assertions. Regular inventories have at all times been kept of the instrumenu:, books, vessels, and all other property belonging to the coast survey, whicb can be prndnccu, nnd inspected in the office at uny minute. It is to be obsen·ed that n co11sitlcrnble amount of uctnnl property exists in the coast survey establishment, which forms in fact nu unexpended capital; five vessels, numcrons boats, i11strumeuts, clocks, chronometers, books, tables, chairs, fl>ols, tents, and in geucrnl all the implements necessary in the ofilce and in tho field, besides the full equipment of the vesi:;els, &c. Some of these latter have been returned .to the Treasury Department, and their amount is still due to the const-snrvey fuud. An abstract of an inventory of the property in hand is joiucd herewith, tbe amount of which oxccods,crrtaiuly, $120~000. Quoa. 10. "The names of all persons employed upon the coast survey, distinguishing such us may have lloeu of the army or navy, together with their salaries, or orltcr compousntion." The qualijicatfons arn what is of interest in the work; and these are not attached to nny names, or class of men. Jn some parts of the work, the persanet must he, by its uutme, somewhat variable. . .My cornpe11sation is fixed at $3,000 per annum, and for the personal expenses which arc occasioned by tho work $3,000. The compeusations of the principal nssistnn.ts arc also calculated with I\ view to compensating the persoual expenses to which their functions subject them; all other persons employed receive their board, or u. weekly allowance for the same, according to the greater convenience of the work, a<lditio11al to their pay. }<~very quarterly account rendered by the nccouuting officer gives, of course, tho fullest information in this respect. This pt1rt will therefore be answered by the Treasury Department. Qnes. ,11. ''By whom nppoiuted to the service." This question has been decider/ from the very beginning until this day, nlways equully, by lite uaturc of the subject, by the lnw of 1807, and by tho contract I entered into for tho work with tho Government. The nature of the subject and the work dictate distinctly that the chief, or (so called) superintendent, of the work shall havo the selection of the 11roper persous needed for his assistance in any way whatever, he being

"10

l>oc. No. :~8.

1he best· judge of their }itness as to the qualifica·tirms required iri 'any given case; and that no as.sistant, or other persons to be employed, can bu introduced into the work by any other ways or means. It is, therefore, upon the superintendent's proposition that the assistants are appointed. The original law of 1807 gives the execution of the work directly into the hands of the President of the United States; thence he can give it (what · iR in parliamentary style called) in commission to whomever he pleases; the renewed law of 1832 confirms this. Upon that principle all successive Presidents have acted. The survey being made in the interest of commerce principally, the Presidents have at all times given it, in commission to the Secretary of the Treasur.~-this Department being, in fact, the only -0ne fitted for the good success of the work; for many reasons. The at. tempts made to place the work under the Navy Department proved signal failures, as documents fully show, in which thJ causes and iucidP.ntal situations of the subjects relating thereto are sufficiently deduced, and tG which I therefore refer. Upon the proposition of the superintendent for any appointment involving a yearly compensution over 1,000 dollars, the Secretary of the Treasury, to whom the proposition is a·ldressed by the superintendent, refers to the President, who deciJcs finally upon it. Temporary appointments, or such as do not exceed $1,000 annually, are at the free, final disposition of the superintendent. Ques. 12. "Exhibiting as well the direct appropriations for the survey \ ·of the coast., as the indirect expenditures upon it, by reason of !he employ'\ ment thereon of public vessels and officers." There am no indirect expenditures by the employment of public vessels or such like. All the vessels employed belong to the coast-survey fund, ·· and are kept in repair by the same. Even last winter the Nav~r Depart1 ment had the Joan of one of them, and returned it without having kept it in proper repair. As for the employment of officers of the navy, it is ,proper here to refer simply, and positivdy, to those oificcrs employed in the coast survey, to state: whether they <lo not find, from their oxpcricnco, that tho navy is indebted to the coast survey, and not the coast smvey 10 the navy. This was one of the circumstances aimer] at, and sufficiently discusRed at different. times in lhe documents, to which it is a1ways proper to refer. These oflieers rccei ve an additiu,nal pay from the coast-survey funds, but from the navy nothing different from any other service in which they might otherwise be enguged. The naval part of the work is of course the smullest division of the work, as the naval operations have nothiug to do with the direct determination of any distances. These are furnished by the triangulation and the topographical work, with the latter of which they work simultaneously, as much as circumsti:11Jces will permit, getting their guiding points from it to apply to the determination of their points of sounding. Qucs. 13. "The probable lenglh of time required to complC'te the survey." It would be highly improper to answer this question by direct numbers. It was made to rne by the President in 1835. I answered it by ~ta.ting thiR, and entering into particulars about the state of lhe coast snfvey, its variable chances in locality, weather, &c., and upon my methods of proceeding, with the view both to accuracy and celerity, and to the best forwarding of the work. The ultimate answer of tile President was," that "is l'ight; that will accelerate the work," as stated in its proper place in the

'·Doc.· No.· ~8.

'11

:ri'rinted ·docnments. 'rhat such is the only way of treating this.question is
evident by nature, and by the scientific principles which must gnide the :wtirk; if it Mhall be ltid to an ltonorabte and permanenl~y uat>ful 1·esult, as is enjoined h,1J the law, and by all instructions. Assiduity, patience, al1d perseverance, will bring the work aloug and to completion ns fast as its nature and the disposable means will admit; and positive numbers are not appropriate to stote beferehand. The above statements are already contained in the printed docnments. I beg leave, therefore, to refer to this previous treatment of that subject, and to state the following, with a view to clear up tho ideas of any inquirer, viz: 'Vith thQ advancement of the mathematical and physical sciei1Ces,·the means of acceleration of any work grounded upon them also increase; but still, without such time as is appropriate to the extent of a work, nothing is possible. The coast of the United States is about 3,000 milos long; with its inward bay11, large navigable rivers, &c., it will present at least triple that length; and a certain brea<lth inland must al ways be surveyed with it, as the aim of the work dictates. The purt of the coast now executed being from east of Rhode Islund to about Cupe Het1lopon and the Chesapeake bay, au approximate judgment might be cust upon the question, from the ·relative extent of the work now executed to tile whole, of which it presents no inconsiderable proportion, provided it would be possible to ascettaiu beforehand the exact nature of the coast yet to be surveyed, und all possible circumstances, the weather, the impediments, &c. But these things being impossible to be knl'lwn, tho judgment woi1ld be more than vugue. Ques. 14. "The probable umount of mon11y required to complete the survey of the coast in the mode heretofore punmed."' This is answered in a great meusnre by the preceding amiwer upon the time, as from it depends much of tho determination of the expenditure. All that is needed for a foll a11swcr is, that the whole work is iu every way contrived, and carried on, in all its parts, in the most economical manner possible; and that tho prnpor iuvcstigntion nnd inqniry that ca.n. be made, and I s/1ould /Ure would be made, compnrotively to any other works, woulc.l certainly show that never so much valnahlo work of thut kind has been obtained, in any country, and under any known urmnglHneut, us there has been obtained, in the same time~ at a proportionally equal expense, us in this survey of the coast of tho United Stutes, under the preseiit or,ljanizalion and administration of I/wt work. , 'l~he results of the coast snrvey will furnish, for the fntnre, regular systematic <lntu lo gron11<l uny detuil surveys upon, that might be needed, thereby avoiding the double oxpenses hitherto so froquently occurring, from tho Engineer and Na""}' Dep11rtments acting discounoctedly, thereby, of course, donbling tho expense, and, I might say, ofton even the doubts. The coast snrvey hus far more than paid its expenses np to this time, by the ndvnutages which it has procured to two of the principal ports of the country, New York and Philadelphia, the accurate knowledge of whiclL hns made known advnntuges in tl1eir nuvigation superior to those hitherto known, which no oporat.ions of surveying, so frequently carried on in lhoso waters, have been ablo to ·detcrmiue, because they ·wero not sufficiently well grounded upon systematic principles, and upon properly conuected ·operations. ·

Doc. No. 28.
Ques. 1.5. " With the suggestion of any other tnode of sllrveying the same." This d0es not ·belong to me to answer by any p11.rticular discussion, but that both the mathemntical principles which must gui<lc the work positively dictate the mode pnrsued, and that the experience. mo.de between 181S. and 1832 has distinctly proved, in this counll'y, that .no other mode, nor ·even fashion, cr111 lead to a result; notwithstanding that iu 1832, aud eveu now again, it has been attempted to. speak, uud even write, about a (so called) chronometric snrvcy, which tho science does not know, as ch1·0nometers give only detached determinations, and no survey, which !alter implies a connected series of operations. I hope to be dispensed from discussing. this qnestion; but I !\llow myself, instead of it, to present the '1Xamples of 01her countries. The surveys made in Europe, of sufficient note to apply to the~n the mathematical and physical sciences, which arc! in principle, to be applied, and without which aucceas i.9 direcll,1/ impo.saible, were all begun in the last century upon similar plans of triangula1ion; varied as they nil are in the me1hods and mode of the detail execution, they all agree i11 that principle. Austria began already, after 1he times of Cassiui and Liesganig, ( 1768,) using the triangleE: of Liesganig, made for the determination of degrees of the meridian, in Austria and in Hungary, as the primary mathematical elements of her future maps. Russia began under Catharine II, and bas since cons1antly ei1her taken up at different poiuts or extended the triangulations successivdy made, with always more perfection of men of science. Now, rhcse triangulations form a fully connected series from north of the arctic circle to south of Dor-· pat. The work goes now on, wilh a great abundance of means, as well in persons as money, for the topographical and hydrograp!iical parts, to which the triangles give t11~ foundation, principally around the llaltic. Sweden has similarly taken advantage of the trigouomctrical operations of Svanberg, in Lapland, for a mt!asurement of a degree of the meridian begun in 1801, for its maps and the charts of its coast. Denmark began, under Bugge, before 1784, for its pcuinsula; and not many years ago the part of Holstein was triangulated, in conjunction with Hanover. The kingdora of Hanover has been triangulated by Professor Gauss. Prussia, having taken advautage of the extension of the French triangulation in Germany over its prese11t' Rheni.11h provinces, has not ouly exteni,1ed this triang11J1.1.tion over a great part of its dominions, but has added new measurcmeuts of degrees all over, uutil lately, Mr. Bosse!, astronomer royal of Konigsberg, joined these works with those of Russia just quoted.. AIL these works have been, and are still, used as elemE.nts for the geographical~ topographical, and hydrographical surveys of the country. Swabia was triangulatc>d by my university friend, Professor Bohucnberger, of TGbingen, and I accompanied him, in 1705, in the junction of his triangles with mine in Switzerland. The operations of the triangulation of Bavaria arc well knowu and fully described. All the States of Germany }Jave either maG.c triangulations upon their own base lines, iudepfindent of the French triangulations, which were constantly carried on in the rear of the French armies, during the whole of their campaigns, from 1791 onwards, or used these very triangulations ;

D.oc. No. 28.

13.

and the different State3 have grounded upon t.hem the maps of their countries. The same is the Cllse with ltnly, where the triangulations of Boscovich, Beccaria, Zach, Nouet, thfl joint Austrian, French, and Sardinian commission, aud other~, from before the French revolution, during the same, and since~ h11.ve been, nnd are, constantly used as fonndation. to any mnps or charts that are constructed. Naples and Sicily proceeded in the same manner; and tho whole wo.s executed willtout an.v naval nfficers being employed in it. In 1791 I had nlreo.dy beguu myself in Switzerland n similar operation, by thti mens1nement of a base line of about 7~ miles long, upon which some triangles were grounded. The several subsequent revolmions interruptt'd the work, but it was taken up ag11in repeatedly; by me and others, upon the same plan, nnd with those m;1; very same first elemtmls. According to the latest acr.ounts, the topography has now been completed.' It was the notice of that work of mine, which cl\me to this country about tho time of my arrival, in 1805, which occasioned first the proposition to me to do the same here: thence the lnw of 1807, und the call for plans of operation, of which mine, uow proceeded npon, was selected from among thirteen:, by the unanimous vote of a special committee assembled in Philadelphia, and by the President himself. (Seo the historical part of the printed documents, vol. I.) Franco began its first map, after the triangulation of Cussini, in the early part of the last century. The defects which this work presented in its detail execution, which was not made with the care now used, and the improvements of rhe sqic11ces that progressed rapidly afrer those times, produced first in 1786 the triangulation to jr,in the obsen·atories of Paris und Greenwich, under Cassini, the third in France, and General Roy in Euglanrl. Immediately upon it followed the decision of measuring 12 degrees of the meridian, to serve equally as n. base to tho estnblishrr~~ut of stnndards of weight ancl measure, upo11 an u1iit of length derivl'd from the quadrant of the merhlian of the earth, nn<l hy the most accnrntc principles of natural philosophy, npplied lo tho cupacity,nwasmes, and tho weights. Only after these works had passed the ordeal of npprobatiou of the men of science sent from all the continental nations of Europe, assembled in Pnris in 1800 1 (England alone refusing to take a share in a scienl~fic useful aim, while it employed its arms and treasures to the destruction of the CQll· tinent of Europe,) the French, as well as the foreign members of this scientific convention, reporting jointly nud u11a11imonsly-011ly then, the accurate elomrnts thns obtained were decided to be applied to the construction of a new map of Fronce and lo the charts of ils coast. · When all the i11terior that !ind beou clone by tho triangulation and the topographical works, which nllvilys must form tho base of tho hydro. graphic operations, had beeu oxccutod. tho western coast wn~ hogun in 1816, nnd account rendered of it in 182!>. The coast of the Meditenan'ean, as far as hitherto known, is not yet finished; but, during the whole of the wars of thtJ !{evolution, tho triaug-ulations whose bases laid in the French works wore carried 011 as their armies procecdecl. England groundod the first s\urting of its survey upon the very base line measnrod in l 7S!l by Generu.l Roy, on the occasion of the junction of the obsorvatoricsi mentioned above, and has eontinued it ever since upon tho same plan. Several volumes of the work are extant, but the whole is

not yet completed. · About the year 1818, according to Englisn acco.unts of that time, upon the part of the work in Ireland, " above ~oo persons. of different conditions, were and ure continually employed," &c. According to later verbal accounts, the work goes on now from Dublin, south, towards· Cork. In the East Indies, the English began already, in 1800, trigonometrical surveys, upon which the topographical and hydrographical details are grounded and carried on, like all the rest, upon the same principles as the survey of this conn try now is, but with immensely· greater expenses, and n. pe1·sonel far more numerous. The work is proceeding now always upon the same plans and principles, having been extended many degrees of latitude north in new terl'itorics, under Lambdon, Everet, &c. Europe is covered with well-connected series of triangulations, from the sonth of Sicily to past the north polar circle; from Ireland, through England, France, Germany, to the interior of Russia; from Bordeaux to. the frontier of Tnrkey, and in all the interrnediato parts: so that no rnap need be, nor actually is, attempted without the elements of these triangulations. The works which I have made in Switzerland are included in this series. These facts give an idea of the labor required to produce such a. work . as will stand the test of public scrutiny, bo honorable and useful .to the country in which it is performed, and which therefore shall, as I am ordered to make it, be permanentl.71 useful and honorable to tbP. country. That any other mode of proceeding would dishonor the country, and foil the aim of usefulness entirely, is too well known to need any discussion. The mathematical theory, which, it will never be doubted, mnst be applied to such works, is therefore fnlly supported by the imperious fo.ct, that all surveys whatever, of any note, were made by triangulations, as the only possible mode of operating, capable to lead to a result. Notwithstanding that in this country the work is to be done with reference to views whiclil in science would be called at least o_ver-precipitate, (that is, the results of maps and charts are to be attended to at the same time as the elements are obtained, upon which they must nect>ssarily be grounded,) this i:> not to be taken as an authorization to dispense with the principles, without which not,hing at all is obtainable in that Ji11e, that could be considered as warrantable result; and it cannot be supposed that it would be approved by the Americau nation~ if such a work, undertaken in .this country, was to remain behind the similar works of all other nations, and to be recorded in history as in arrear of the prese.nt state of scientific civilization. If, therefore, in the state of the country and the nature of the demand upon the ,t,rork, it cannot begin by the determination of degrees of tho earth"s surface, upon which all the works of that nature aw now habitually grounded, the work would, how1.wer, be positively shamed out of the annals of the science, and of such works, unless its results could bo used, in future proper time, according to any future desire or exigency, to contribute their proper share to thfl determination of the figure of the earth in this countr.IJ. This very last result will form one of the principal mea111;1 for its ultimat~ proof, and credit for accuracy. . The coast survey, to yield the desired and indispensable accuracy and permanent utility, must partake in full of the character of all the works quoted, and exceed them, where possible, in variom1 pomts, and in accul'My, as instances could be found in the work, by the approbation which

Uoc. No. 28'.'
the means and. ,principles employed have met with in Europe, from the ' most eminent mtin.of science, who have practised in such w,1rks. · By entering into the details of this part of the subject, many interesting scientific remarks might be made, which circumstances evidently prohibit . here to touch. · I have, in its proper pince, in my reports printed by Con~ress, stated what, in this point of view, refers to the Mason and Dixon. meridian line, which has been so unsuccessfully tried to be applied as an element to such scieutific determinations. All this answers certainly, also, the question of the probable time that may be required for the ·completion of the work so fnlly as to reduce it to the simple statement, that the more impediments there will be laid in the way of the ·work, the longer it must last, supposing even that it be not entirely destroyed, and the whole undertaking become what is called" a bill of loss for the nation,'' by attempting to presci·ibc details and modes of proceeding ·1rn.~cientific, or distracting the work from its proper course, as former experience has proved. Qnes. 16. ''Which shall have for its object.the acquisition of the greatest amount of ·t1sefnl information in the shortest time, and at the least expense." . This object cannot be attained by any other mode than that now em.ployed in the const survey-in no wny whatsoever. · Cases arc where the economy of n few hundred d,ollars claimed, nr nimed o.t, has occasioned the loss of some millions of money, years of time, and has caused many disagreements. It might apparently be fair to claim for the coast snrvey work, in its present organization, the habitual advice, " Let well alo1H'." Tt is easy, by misapprehended views of a scientific subject, investigated with certain predetermined aims, views, opinions, etc., to dru w conclusions directly contrary to trnth. Snch are the ideas which would pretend to determine, almost instantaneously, tho latitudes and longitndes of places with 1mxtants and chronometers, when geographical determinations are to be made with that arcnracy, which decides certainty. 'Ve have the experic11ce of centuries, and of our days equally, proving what a long series of observations, with means for superior to small sextant~ and chronometers, have been, und are still, required to obtain accuracy in any way only comparable with what a fow triangles will pat ont of doubt within smnller limits than a man (suppose the observer with his sextant) needs to move upon iu his sextant operations; ancJ these fow triangles arc quicker made, and their accuracy is proved in every step with the fnllest certaiuty. Such illusions are instantly dispelled by the knowledge of the scientific principles iinpliPd in such works. It is known, by my reports, that, in addition to the works of the coast survey, I have, during the very same time, also brought the construction of uniform standards of weight and measure for tho whole Union to a considerably advanced state, in for less time than similar works have been obtained in any country whatsoever, of far less extent than the Un!ted Stutes. The two \\'orks, requiring similar application of mathematical und physical science, anci even similar meclmnical means, are assisting each other mutually, and therefore serve as accelcro.tion, the one to the other. It is, besides, well known that in France, also, they were grounded upon the

Doe. N·o. 28. ·
same principlefl-so much so, as to call the account of the tneasurement of the twelve degrees of the meridian," the base of the metric s;yslem." Whatever would act inimical to the coast survey wonld act equally inimical to this, so highly important and much desired ptlblic work.

F. R. HASSLER. To tl.e
Hon. WALTJtR FoJtWARD, .

Secretary of the 1'rea.rury, 11-Tasllington.
STATION YAilDS IN NEWTOWN SQO'A.RE,

Delaware county, (Pa.,) Duember 2, 1841.

Lisi of in.rtruments belonging lo /lie United. States coa3l sun·ey.
1 30-inch theodolite. Tronghton & Simms. 1 24-inch theodo:ite. Troughton. 1 IS-inch repeating circle, with 2-feet telescope.

'.l'roughton. l IS.inch theodolite. Simms. 1 18-inch theodolite. Made in office. 1 12-incl.i repeating theodolite, with vertical circle. Troughton. 1 12-inch repeati11g theodolite. (Lent to the State of Massachusetts.) 1 10-inch theodolite. Richer. 1 9-inch theodolite. Made in office . .1 24-inr.h vertical circle. Troughton & Simms. Brass stand to the same, made in office. 3 repeating reflectingeircles, with brass stands, horizon, and mercnry flasks. 1 repeating reflecting circle, without stand. 1 5-foet observatory trausit instrument. Troughton. · . 1 5-feet observatory trausitinstrument. (Lent to the Navy Department.) I small trausit iustrumcut aud stand. Made iii effice. 15 sextants. 1 transportable clock of Brookbank. I astronornical clock of Hardy. 5 box chronometers. 12 watches. I three-hun<lrcclth second watch. 4 mounted barometers of F. ]{. Hassler. 4 mounted barometers. (Lent to the State Department.) 1 mounted barometer. (Lent to the War Departmcrnt.) l reflecting telescope of Trough ton. 1 6-foct telescope. Dolloud. 1 5-foot tclr.scope. dilto. l 4 81!"-foet telescope. Tully. 1 !J·l·fect telescope. Dollou<l. 1 3~-feet telescope. 'l'roughton. (Lent to the War Department.) 4 3~ -foet telescopes. Frauenhofer & Utzschnei.der. 4 .2&-feet telescopes. Fraueuhofor & Utzschne1der. 5 pocket telescopes. 7 large bcliotropes, with brass stands . .4 small heliotropes. 14 thermometers.

l)oc. No. 28.

17

10 large alhidades. 2 small alhidades. 6 complete plane tables. 3 brass motion works for µlane tu.bles. 1 brass rule of Schenck's alhidadc, with magnetic needle. 1 large azimuth compas!l, 1 foot needle, and telescope. 1 compass, with telescope, needle, and staud. 2 compasses, with telescopes. . 1 small compass, with prismatic readings. 2 2-arm protractors. 2 3-arm protractors. 1 brass circular protractor. 1 small steel protractor. 1 58-inch German silver boam compass. 1 56-inch brass beam compass. 1 32-inch brass beam compass. 1 32-inch graduated brass beam compass. 21 beam cou1passes of different sizes and metals. 3 steel rulers of 8 feet length. 9 steel rulers of 5 feet length. l brass ruler of S feet length. 5 steel rulers of 3~ feet length. 2 steel rulers of 2~ feet length. 12 metre scales of brass and German silver. 11 metre chains. 5 graduated triaugles. 12 triangles of different sizes, brass and steel. 1 30-inch dividing plate of Bird. l new tracing apparatus. Made in office. 3 pu.rallel brass ruling instruments. Made in office. 12 boxes of niathematici>.l drawing instruments. 1 82-inch scale of Troughto11, divided on silver, with microscopic comparateur. 1 scale bea:m and grain weights of Troughton. 1 brass metre of Lenoir. 1 iron metre of Lenoir. 1 iron toise of Lenoir. 2 subdivided kilogrammes. ll litres modeles. 4 micrometer microscopes, with reflectors. 1 double wire micrometer of Dollond. 1 level tryer, with micrometer screws. 2 micrometer screws. 2 large artificial horizons. 3 small artificial horizons. l box with mo1111ted levels. l box with unmounted levels. 1 box with parallel glasses. I box with dark glasses, sextant mirrors, lenses, reading glas~es, and sets of dark gla~ses. 1 rectangular level nrrangement from Hrookbank's clock.
2

JS

Doc. No. 28.
instrnment is now beillg constructed in the office.

1 verlical circle, telescope, &c., of broken repeating circle, from whinli an

The base apparatus consists ofboxes with microscopes. boxes with brass and steel motion works. boxes with iron bars. box with thermometers. box with wooden legs for the microscopes. long wood bar, box, and base plank. large brass sectors with levels. large wooden stands with screws. There belongs to the coast survey a library of a few hundred volumes of valuable mathematical and astronomical works, a number of which are very nire ; all classical in their kind.
2 2 2 1 I 'I 2 12

The following vessels helo11g to tlie coast survey : Brig Washington, with 4 b:lats. Schooner Jersey, with 4 boats. Schooner Gallatin, with 3 boats. Schooner Nautilus, with 3 boats. Schooner Vanderbilt, with I boat. The plane table parties have 5 boats in use. The different Janel parties have in use 60 tents of different sizes. Every party has the necessary carpenter tools. For the triangulation parlies there areG instrument carriages. 1 I-horse wagon.

horses. The instrument maker's shop has1 large turning latfoe, cast-iron frame, wheels, &c. 1 turning lathe, with cast-iron shears, wheels, &c. 1 small turning lathe, with cast-iron shears, wheels, &c. 1 watch maker's turning bench, with all necessary implements and tools. The artificer's shop has a carpenter's bench, with aU the necessary tools. In the office rooms there are12 drawing tables, of different sizes. 9 writiug tables and desk. 5 bookcases. · Stands, chairs, washstands, fenders, shovels and tongs.

s

27th CONGRESS, 2d Session.

Doc. No. 67.

Ho. 01· RJ:P:l. Treas. Dept.

COAST SURVEY.

------ --------.---REPORT
OF

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
IN REPLY

,

To the rewltttion of t/ie House o.f Rep1·esentatives of 24th June, 1841, respecting tl1e expenditure, lrc.,for the sm·vey of the com·t of the United States.

.fANUAUY'3l, )842.
Read, and lniJ upon tho table .

· ·

'fREAsunv DJ..JPARTMli:N'r,

January 25, 1842.

Sia: l have the honor to make the following report, in obedience to the
resolution of the House of Representatives of the 24th June last, directing " the Secretary of the Treasury" to "communicate to this House, at the . tommencement of the next seE'sion of Congress, a statement of the progress which shall then have been made in the survey of the coast of the United States, including the number, location, und length of the several base lines measured for the triaugulatious, the stations occupied therefor, the observations mude for, and the corrections applied to the same; the astronomical -observations made for the determination of tho latitude or longitude ; the work done by each corps employed in the service, and fl. descriptive list of the 'Charts published, if nny." · " Also,· the amount of money expended on the survey of the coast, from ·t.ime to time, since its commencemcnt,·showing what sums have been appropriated for the purchase of instruments and books; the names of all persons -emploved upon the survey,<listi11guishi11g such us may have been of the army or navy, together with their salaries orbthercompensutio11, und by whom appointed to the service; exhibiting as well the direct appropriations for the survey of the coast as the indirect expenditure upon it, by reason of the -~mployment 'therein of the public vessels aud office1·s." · "Also, the pwbable leugth of' time and amount of money required to 'Complete -the survey of the coust, in the mode heretofore pursued, with suggestion of any other mode of surveying the same, which shall have for its 'Object the acquisition of 'the greatest amount of useful information in the -'Sh-Or-te~t time, .and ·at the foast ·l'xpense."

Doc. No. 57.
As the report from the superintendent, submitted by the Department to the House of Representatives on the 30th ultimo, and contained in printed document No. 28 of the present session, gives, prqbahly, as satisfactory i.nforma.tion as it is in the power of the Department to furnish, in answer to so much of the resolution as relates to the progress and r·xtont of the work already completed, and other details therein called for, I beg leave respectfully to refer the House to the report before mentioned for an answer to these portions of the resolntion. In addition, I take occasion to remark, in reforcnce " to the probable length of time required to complete the survey," that nothing definite can . be given in answer to this inquiry; but perhaps some approximation to the period of time may be reached by comparing th~ relative extent of tbe coast yet to be surveyed with that already executed, and the time occupied in the cornpletio11 of the latter. In instituting the comparison, however, due allowances must he made for mauy uuavoidable delays incident to the commencement and proper organization for such a work, such as procuring instruments and other necessary cqwipruents needed for its successful prosecution. It will be proper, also, in forming a judgment of the time required to complete the work, to bear iu mind that niany of the results already obtained can be used in subsequent operations; and due consideration, at the same time, should be give11 to the fact that important practical knowledge and experience have been gained by the principal assistants of the superintendent, and others immediately connected with the survey. These, together with the means already obtained, and the complete organization now existing throughout its various branches, would, all combined, no doubt tend greatly to accelerate the completiort of the remaining portion of the work. A similar comparison of that portion of the work already finished, and the cost of executing the same, with that still to be performed, might, it is believed, fnruish a tolerably correct idea of the " probable amount of money required to complete the survey of the coast,'' provided the same means and facilities be extended to the future operations of the work as have been heretofore and are at present affQrded for its prosecution. An augmentation of these means and facilities wonld doubtless expedite its completiou, and probably diminish the expetise. , As, however, for the foregoing reasous-, the Department could furnish nothing more than conjectural answers to these inquiries, it is tleemed most respectful and ad v~sable to refrain from the expression of an opinion based upon such uncer1a111 data, alid dependent upon contingencies of the nature referred to. 1 · In regard to the " suggestiou of a11y oth~r mode of surveyiug the same, which shtdl have for its object the acquisition of the greatest amount of useful information in the shortest time, and at the least expense," I would remark that this Department is not possessed of the requisite information to enable it to make any satisfactory suggestion on this subject, involving as it does both a theoretic and practical knowledge of a branch of the scie'i1ces foreign from its appropriate duties, and to which its attention has not been specially given. Unt, as stated in the report of the superintendent, before referred tu, it would appear that this survey is conducted 011 the same.scientific principles, with the benefit of modern improvempnts, as similar works unclertaken by most of the Governments of Europe. It would seem that no new mode, embracing the same scientific principles und accuracy of results, has, if discovered, been yet adopted by those Governments.

Doc. No. 57.

3

The accompanying statement No. 1, prepared by the Register of the Treasury, exhibits "the amount of money expended on the survey of the coast, from time to time, since its commencement, showiug what sums have been appropriated for the purchase of instruments and books, the names of all per::mns employed upon the survey, distinguishing such as may have been of the army or navy, together with their salaries or other compensation, and by whom appointed to the service." It is to be observed that the compensations of the superlntendeut, assist. ants, and others emptoyed in the work, have beeu fixed by the Prt1sideut for the time being. The pay from the coast survey appropriation of some -0f the officers of_ the navy, as also of the lower grade of persons employed in the field operations, ceases during the winter months, The communiCation herewith sent, numbered 2, furnished by the Navy Department, is designed to answer thnt branch of the resolution calling for "the indirect expenditure up-011 it, [the 1urvey,] by reason of the employmcmt therein of the public vessels and officers." On this head, it is deemed proper to remark that, as the laws providing for the survey of the coast.authorize the President to employ "such of the public vessels in actual service ns he may judge expedient," and "all persons in the land·and naval service, and such astronomers and other persons as he shall deem proper," it becomes questionable whether these expenditures. ought properly to be considered, to their full extent, as chargeable to the coast survey. These vessels~ with their officers and men, would, if not .employed in this special duty, have still remained a charge on the service to which they belonged. Their transfer to the survey would doubtless increase the expense in some degree, but it is respectfully suggested whether this entire charge can be fairly thrown upon the expenditures of the work .under consideration. All which is respect.fully submitted. W. FORWARD, Secretary of l/1e Treu.vury. ·Ron. JoHN WHrrE,

Speaker of the House of Representatfoes.

4

lloc. No. 57'.
No. 1..

Statement of money expended, out of direct appropriations by Congress, and accounted for by settlement in the office of the First .11.uditor of the Treasury,for the surve,y of lite coast of the United States,from. ifr commencement, in 1808, to 18.18; in 1832 and 1833, and from 1836 to June 30, 1841 ; showing wltat sums It ave been paid for the purchase ·and repairs of instruments, and for books; the n'!mes of all persons emp{0,1Jetl upon the survey, designating such as have been of tlie anny and navy, together with their salaries m· compensation, and by whom appointed.
Expcnilituro· for the Aggregate amount purchase of books of. exp·nditure1. & instruments ancl repairs of instruments.

Period·.

·

1808 1811 From July 27 to November 1, From November 1, 181 l to July'f. 1818 1832 1833 183G 1837 1838 1839 1840 Fil'st and, second quarters of 1841

Ots~~'4f)

$715 75 17,531 13G 3,844 6,076 785 1,.540 738 460 147 64 75 81 35 25 14 21 91 98

$715 1,105 54,869 3,824 16,485 39,704 90,702 86,120 87,023 G7,S.57 34,031

75 62 21

16
91 95 62 69
62

97 fl4

Expenditures by the hydrographic parties from April 22, 1835, to May 17, 1841 Total
Name· of per·onH e.mployeil on thP Hurv,ey. 8ularicH or compcnHalion.

1,745 23 33,723 05

30,289 24 512,731 6R

Hy whom appointed.

F. H. Hassler James Fergnso11

$6,000 per annum~ 4,000 ·do

-

Presidtint of the U. States.
, i Superintend't, with approval of the President.

F..:. Blunt
C. M. Eakin C. Renard W. M. Boyce J . .J. S. Hassler John Farley F. H. Gerde!S H. L. Dickins T. W. Werner S. Hein

4,ooo
;~,000

do

Do

do

Do

3,000 do Do 2,000 <lo Do 2,000 do Do 2,000 do Do 1,500 do Do 1,500 do Do 1,500 do .. I Do 1,000 pr. an. & hoard I Superintendent.
1

do. do. do. do. do.
do. do.

do. do.

· $3,000 for compensation, aml $8,000 for hie expenses.

Uoc. No. 57.
STATEMENT No. 1-Continuod.
Names of persona employrd on tho survey, Snlnriea or compensntion. By whom appointed.

5

_ _ _ _ _ _,___ _ !--·-·--- · - - .,, _____________ , _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

- $800 pe1· annum - Superinteudent. 800 per ann. & board Do. C. Flint 50 per mo. & board Do. Thomas McDonnell 600 per ann. & board Do: W ..Tacobi 2 50 per dny Do. T. A. M. Craven - 750 per 0;nnum - Superinteuq't, with approval of the President. ' T .·I. Page 500 <lo Do do. T. A. Jenkim; 500 do Do do. T. R. Gedney 627 do Do do. Richurcl Bache 1 per .day Superintend't, with approval of Secretary of Treasury. A. A. Holcoml1 1 do Do do. ] Mid. Crawford,( dead) do Do do. Lt. W. S. Young 1 Jo Do do. Mid. Pnttorson 1 do Do do. Lt. J. B. Dale 1 do ~ Do do. Mid. E . .Teukins l do Do do. Lt. C. W. Morris 1 do Do do. W. B. Whiting do l Do do. Lt. Chandler l tlo Do do. J. K. Mitch ell 1 do Do ·do. Lt. G. S. Blake 627 per annum - Superiritend't, with approval D. D. Porter
Lt. Todd
S. C. Howan Lt. G. M. Bache Smgeon S. Sharpe H. C. Flagg
l per day

L. Muller W. W erdeman

of the President.

- Superintend't, with approval of Secretnry of Treasury.
Do .do.

rlo do

do
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 l

C. W. Chauncey J. I. Boyle
H. S Stilwager D. F. Dulaney

do Jo do

Mid. Lowry Mid. Sands Mid. Ring W. H. Swift, disbursing officer.
B. Gluck S. Conrad · T. Shiras

do do do do do do comm.

2 50, per

Do do. Do do. Do do. Do do. Do do. Do do. 1Do do. - Secretary of the Treasu1·y. Do do. Do do. Do do.
Superintendent.

25 per 1110. & board 44 cents per day

· Tames Campbell
James Paul S. Bunce

25 per mo. & board 20 do 18 do 18 do

Do. Do . Do . Do. Do.

6

Doc. No. 57.
STATEMENT No. 1-Continued.

Name· of per1on1 employed on the 1urvey.

Salaries or coropeniation.

By whom appointed.

G. H. Bishop Joel Griffis Joel Soper H. Stoddart P. V. De Grawe Conrad Hoffman H. L. Whiting Aaron Vanderbelle M. Risby Z. Scull L. Scull Robert Leeds Enoch Higbee J. T. Smith William Johnson Joseph Lees James Trainer James McKnight Patrick Murlin P. Donohoo A. Smith P. Smidt' Gustav's Werdeman Edward Sweeny William Greason E. Krafft T. S. FiUebrowl'J M. O'Brien 0. McQuard T. McGurren D. Convoy A. Convoy John SIDith Tho. Robinson, pilot Robert Williams Joseph C. Fuller J. Farrell Joseph Milford B. Conway A. Symington -

-

$18 per mo. and board Superintendent. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. 18 Do. do do Do. 18 Do. 50 cts. per day do 25 per mo. and board Do. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. l& Do. do 18 Do. do 6 do Do. 18 Do. do 20 do Do. 18 do - . Do. 18 , do Do. 15 Do. do 18 Do. do 15 do Do. 18 do Do. 25 do Do. 25 do Do. . do 18 Do. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. 18 do .Do. 18 do Do. . do 18 Do. 18 do Do. 18 do Do. 40 do Do. "' 18 do Do. do Do. -25 10 do Do. do Do. 16 I 50 cts. per day do Do. 18 per mo. nnd board Do.
~
~

TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

Register's Office, January 20, 1842. T. L. SMITH, Regi#er.

Doc. No. 57.
No. 2.

7

December 30, 1841. Srn : Agreeably to the request contained in the letter of your predecessor, the Hon. Thomas Ewing, of the 30th July Inst, I have the honor to transmit, in answer to the resolutfrm of the House of Reprtisentatives of the .24th June, 1841, (so far as the inquiries therein relate to this Department,) a list of the offic!rs of the navy \vho have been employed on the survey pf the coast of the United States; and, also, to state that the sum. indirectly expended. upon the coast survey, by tho employment of a part of the naval force therein, from the month of September, 1834, to November, 1841, amounts to one hundred and fourteen thousand five hundred arul eightyfour dollars, viz: · · The difference Q.etween the leave ot absence pay of the officers employed, and their pay at.sen. - $25,725 Amount of officers' i·ations 9,222 Pay of the crews of the vessels employed 54,379 Rations of the crews 25,258'
NAVY DEPAR'f.MENT,

Total I am, &c., sir, your obedient servant, Hon. \\7ALTER
FoRWARD,

~~
.

A. P. UPSHUR.

Sec,·etart/ of lite Treasury.

List of officers who have been emplo,1Jed on thP. coast srtrvey, from. Sep· temher, 1834, lo November, 1841. · ,
Na1m"'·

Commander T. R. Gedney ·Lt. J. T. McL1111ghlin, (as pd. mid.) Lt. Francis Huger, . do Lt. B. W. Hunter, do do Lt. A. S. Worth, Lt. T. A. Jenkins, do Lt. W. J. H. Robertson, do Lt. Joshua Humphreys, (as mid.) Lt. John Rodgers, (as passed mid.) Lt. George M. Totten, (as mid.) Lt. Juhn L. Ring, (as passed mid.) Lt. Levin Handy, do Lt. Albert Griflith, do Lt. B. F. Sands, do Lt. A. A. Holcomb, do .Lt. R. W. Meade, do Lt. William A. Ball, do

Lt. David D. Porter, (ns 'pd. mid.) Lt. F. Clinton Lt. J. Sterrett Lt. Richard Bache, do Lt. S. C. Rowan Lt. Richard Wainwright, do Lt. George M. Bache Lt. C. P. Patterson, do Surgeon M. C. Delaney Lt. Charles W. Chnnncey Lt. J. I. Boyle Lt. D. F. Dulaney Lt. J. K. Mitchell Lt. William Chandler Lt. E. G. Parrott, do Passed Mid. H. H. Lewis Midshipman T. H. Stevens

8

Doc. No. 57.

" LIST-Continued.
Name~. Name~.

!Jt; ·IJenry Moore

Lt.· Sts~hen ..Johnston . , Lt:.Joh11- Mo~ne.y, (as pass~d mid.) Lt.,.H:'.S; Steelwagen, : clo

Passe.dYMid. ·W. A. ·Bartlett

;

.

. Lt., Coin~g George S. :Bla.ke · Passed, Mid; J. ,P, Mc,:Kinstry Lt. and. Passed Mid. Olivei: Tod. Lt. and Passed Mid. U. J. Moeller Passed Mid. 'I'. A.. Budd Passed Mid. T~ A. M. Craven Passed Mid. Z. Holland Passed Mid~ William Blecker Midshipman Willi(!.m Craney Midshipman A~ McLane . · Passed Mid. J;[. J,. Pa:tll Lt. and Pa:ssed Mid. H: C. Flagg U. and Passed Mid. C. W. Morris

Si.trgepi1 S; 'Sharp, . .

MidsbipmanHenry Oaks Midshipman William .i. Newton Passed Mid, John J. Almy Passed Mid .. and Lt. W. B. Whiting Passed Mid. John F. Mercer Passed MicI.·and Lt. Wm: S. Young Passed Mid. 0. H. Perry ·:Passed Mi<l. William C. Lambert Passed Mid. C. C. Barton Passed Mid .. Luther Stodda1'd Passed Mid. Francis Lowry Passed Mid. John tf all Passed Mid. T. M. Brasher'. .Passed Mid. and Lt. John B. Dale Passe.d Mid. D. R. Crawford . Passed Mid:. and Lt. Ed. Jenkins Passed Mid. and Lt. R. C. Cogdell Passed Midi S. D. Lavallette · Passed Mid. J. N. Barney.

---~-----------·------------

27Lh CONGRESS, 3d Session.

[SENATE.]

[ 11

1

l\EPOl\T
FROM

THE S E CRE TA RY 0 F T HE TR E AS UR.Y,
COMMUNICATING

A report from tlUJ Superintendent of the Coast Survey, mid of the fabrication of Standaril ~Weig/Us and Measures.
DECEl\IDER DECEMBER

20, 1842. 21, 1842.

Read, and referred to the Committee on Printing. Ordered to be printed.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

December 19, 184.2.

Sm: I hnve the honor to transmit, herewith, n report mnde to this Dep111t· ment by Professor F. R. Hassler, Superintendent of the Const Survey, nnll of the work for the construction of Stamford Weights nutl Measures, showing the progress mntle dming the present yenr in those works respectively. I hnvc the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant, W. FORWARD,

Secretary
Hon.
W1LLm

of tlto Treasitry . .

P.

MANGUM,

President pro tem. of the United States Senate.

Report of P. R. Hassler, as Superintendent ef tlw Survey qf tile Coast, and the construction o.{ standards of Weigltt and Aleasure, upon the progress of these works in 1842. The works of the const survey have since my report of 2d December of Inst yenr, continued in all the different branches with stendiness unJ nssiduity, the same as has nlwnys been hnbituul on the pnrt of every one engaged in the work, notwithstanding t'hc difficulties arising; from the nnture of the ground, and other causes, which hnve required increased attention, and from the intermittent fovel's, which hnve more or less nttucked every party of the work at different times. This latter difficulty being local, nnd well known to incrense in proportion as the work proceeds southerly, will in n yenr or two oblige to change the time of the year to bo user! for tho field works, nppronching it always nearer to the winter season; this will, however, make but o. slight difference in the genernl organizntion of the work, the nature of tho changes thnt mny nrise from this, or nny other accessory eircumstan~s, belonging to the detail adminietmtion of the work, are so 1irnch less to be cle'rhomne AUon 1 prin\,

.~ 11 ]

2

1ailed here, as they are only prospective, therefore as yet undeterminable· The present or~anization of the work being the same as since many years, is. 6lf course fully Jrnown, the grounds of it have been deduced in my·numerous :fiormer propositions for the work, and the series of my yearly repor·s; it would therefore not be proper to dwell here again upon it. The tasks executed by the last summer's works in the field nre as follows: For the main triangulation : the extension of a more general scheme of larger triangles southerly, on bolh sides of the Delaware, over tho~e that 1be.ve been madewi1h the view to top0graphical and hydrogrnphicnl· use, nnd which forms their final element and union. For the secondary triangulation: to extend preliminary triangles over the tipper part of the Chesapeake, which will lend also to the discovery of a. proper locality for measuring the second principal base line, nnd to comple'e the triangles about bo1h sides of Delaware hny, establish those into the peighborhood of the head of the tides of the Delaware river about and above Phflndelphia, &c. The plain table parties have filled up 1he greatest part of lhc ground now intended to be surveyed on both sides of the Delawure, nnd in other parts of New Jersey. · One of the naval ·parlies has continued the soundingil in the Delllwarc, parallel with the works of the topographical parties on its shores; the other hns been extending the soundings ourof sight of land, in the quadrangle, which is formed b~twecn the coast nnd the pnrnllels and longitudes of Block iiilani:l aud Cape Henlopen, forming the outer apprnaches of both the New York harbor nnd the Delaware bay. Thia investigation was carried out till to the Gulf stream, nnd in soundirn~s till 650 fathoms depth, keeping samples of the nature of the bouom below. 'rhe officer operating in this work expressed his full satisfMtion-wi1h the methods indicated ro him, the means he was provided with for that purpose, and the results cibtni11ed. The considcrn1ion of the peculiari·y of these works cnn nlone make them appreciate the nature of the ground over which they extend, the marshes abounding on both shores of the river, and the great multitude and variability of the channels, shoals, nnd other impediments, which the Delaware presents, muhiply in an equal proportion the works,, und the diflicuhies of them, thence the necessary cnre, assiduity, and exertions, for both the lopogrnpbicul qnd the naval par1ies, in rhat purl of the work. It was of interest to find out the exact .place where the observatjous of the transit of Venus ovor the Sun was observed in 1769, at what was then called Cape Henlopen; th1::refore, on my visit to that neighborhood, I made proper inquiry, and was very kindly shown the place by the oldest inhnbitant of Lewiston (Mr. Rodney, formerly Senator for the State of Delaware in Congress), who recollecled it, from his having been at tbe tents of the observers at the time, when he was about five years old. This .place was tJ1erefore determined by the topographical party operating in the neighborhood, and the results for the astronomical position of the place will become comparable with 1hat which will result in time from the present survey. In a great part of the early season, the weather was very much averse to the works. The fine weather in the fall, though favorable for the works :tCC(Uiring no distant views, was far less so to the works of the main triangu.)ation thap its appearance would h~ve led to expect. The constant dense

r ll l
ov,er the Delaware, which the grentest number of the large. tmingle sides, now in operation, are crossing, cunsed'.considernble loss·oftime;. ' A grent desire hnving been mnnifested'thnt the engraving and· printjng· of the mi;ip of New: York might be accelerated, the necessary mensures·hnve been hastened, nnd in part accomplished, and. the work proceeds properlt nnd in the best manner by four erigrnvers, of whom each has his apptopri· ate branch, as the proper organization of such works requires. The maps i·esulting will be appropriated· to give nil the data that may be desired for any. improvement in· the harbors, or navigation of all the approaches and' the neighborhoods of that port, and. nlso to the special simpler wants of the seaman nppr'oaching the port, in such form as fits him· the best. A copperplate printing-press . has nlso been procured, which hM been: cnwloye<l hitherto, and will n\so for some time yet be employed; for th' necessary intermediate proof,sheets, by which the gradual progress of the work is successively tried nnd directed. With some improvements which. will be added to it, it·will then also serve for the ultimate execution of the final printing of the plates. These operations require just as much the constant attention, and the eye, of thfl superintendent, as any other purt of the works of the survey i~ self; Therefore the whole is necessarily cilrried·on in the office of the coast survey itself, by an npproprinted establishment. Proper time, cnre, nnd rin adequate portion of the nppropriation, must of course be devoted to it, and much attention and time are required to procure the ~arions. materials, as copper plates, pap~r, and others, of th{Jt superior· quality which cnn alone be considered satisfactory for n work of the char. acter which the const survey shall, also in its outward appearance, present to the public. When I was in London to procure the first instrumentsfor the const survey, havin'g seen, about 1812, in Mr. Tronghton's workshop, the operations of last finishing and dividing the instruments upon the engine, which.· necessitated yet the unscrewin~ of the circles from their nxis, in the mnn· ner of late Mr. Ramsden's dividing engiqe, which occasioned always, necessarily, a recentering of the instrument, l suggested to him another manner of constructing the dividing engine, thus: ' In the habitual mnnner of ultimately finishing the nxis of motion, and' the plane of the circle's limb perpendicnlnr to the same, by turning the in~ strnment upon two points without disturbing it in any way. It is lmbitmn nt the same time to drnw the circles upon the limb, between which the divisions nre intended to be made. These circles become thereby concentric to the motion around the axis. Of this circumstance I proposed to take· advantage ; to pince the instrument concentric to the dividing engine, by, constructing the central part of the dividing engine so ns to admit the instrument to be divided, with its axis remaimng fast to the circle, exactly ·so ns the axis and the plane of the circumference had been adjusted finallr · upon the lathe, of which centrality the circles traced np(ln the limb at ln'st form the aceurnte indicators. With this view, I proposed that the centre of the dividing engine be mnde · n hollow axis, of such size as would admit within its central opening the axis of ~my instrument of such diameter ns nre habitually dividea upol\ engines, when this axis, or nny other centrnl part of the circle, is turned,'·
fq~s, particularly

[ 11 ]

4

downward, as must always be more or less the case. For the axis, or part of the same, going upward, the habitual distance between the two arms holding the tracing arrangement will generally have room enough to admit its passage upward. The instrument being then placed flat upon the plane of the engine, will present the circles traced upon the limb, which have been· made concentric with the axis, so that two compound microscopes can be placed over them In such a manner as to make the views of them constantly tangent to the circles traced upon the limb when turning the eue-ine around the whole circumference. 'fhe compound microscopes performing this arc attached to a bar crossing over the engine, attached to the bars holding the tracing arrangement, and perpendicular to it. They are adjustable to any diameter .. . When, by the moving of the instrnment upon the engine, the concentricity 9f the circles upon the limb with the motion of the engine is obtained, the circle is made fast by any means which its constrw::tion most conveniently presents, and it is ready for dividing, in that central position, in the habitual way. The rest of the eugine is otherwise similar, in any respect, to that which the late Mr. Troughton has made, and described in the Encyclopedia of Brewster. .. When I deduced these ideas to Mr. Troughlon he fully approved them, and when, some time afLcr, Mr. Th. Jones, of Charing Cross, London, in11Lrument maker lo the King, came to him (in my presence) to ask for advice upon the manner in which he should construct a dividing engine, which he intended to make for himsolf, Mr. Troughlon told him to make it according to my direction, which I then explained to him as above. When in 1832 the coast survey began agaiu 1 it was found necessary that an establishment should be in it to cnnble to keep the instruments required in it always in good repair, not only, but also to construct cnlircly new once; for this a dividing engine was evidently required, as the necessity to recur to nny mechanician nC1t habituated to the wants of the coast survey work, would never give results well appropriated to our use, and keep the work itself back by delays which would be out of our control and very costly. Therefore the acquisilion of such an engine was immediately authorized by the President, and in consequence it was ordered immediately, and upon my plan of the modified construction, which I have jui>t described . . Mr. 'froughton and Mr. Simmons, whom he had in the mean time associated with him, recei\'Cd the order to that effect, bnt Mr. Troughton died before the engine wn;1 finished, and it ullimatcly arrived here in the course of last summer, after a delay which affords again proof that when a work is to be <lone requiring mathematical accuracy to u high degree, nnd lO an honorable, useful result, the time to be consumed for it can impossibly be limited-as litr.le as the extreme care and assiduity. The engine is unique in its kind in this country, and of great value even for the general progress of the al'l of the mechanicians in this counLry, besides the services the coast survey \\ill derive from it. 'With reference to the nppropriation to be proposed to Congress for the coast surrny for this session, I take the liberty to suggest the propriety that it shall be again one hundred thousand dollars, which several of the later years have proved to be exactly ndequate to the proper and (in proportion to its effect and success in the results), most economical amount of expenditures; though it must be considered that it will have to provide for two springs'

5

[ 11

J

outfits of the going into the field of the sur,eying pttrlies, and that the ex penses are of course increased by the whole amount required for the en.gra ving nnd printing of the· map of New York, &.c. ; but on l\nother side, the nature of the field work will, it is hoped, nllow some reduction in the amount of expenses, nnd that at the time the appropriation will be m!lde, a. small balance of the present appropriation may yet remain disposable.

Upon tlte standards ef weight and measure.

My report of 6th April Inst upon: the liquid capacity measures contains th.e. most essential account of the progress of these works, by presenting again & full finished part of this imporlanl work, and such u one us, it is evident, required the most delicate combination of clements of nlltural p!,1ilosophy ia its orgnnizlltion, and of most caref!il mechanical skill in its execution. Since then the works for the balance~ intended for the State Governments have principally occupied the mechanical p1rt of the establishment. Tb.e final adjustment of the dry capacity measures of half bushels will, as l liave stated there, be begun u.s sooa ll.s the seMon will be fovora.ble for it;. their mechanical execution is completed. Por any fuller information upon this subject, its history and general bearing, if desired, I take the liberty to refer to the account rendered to tha. -committee to whom that report has been referred in the last session of Congress.
PrNEHILL STATION,

New Jersey, No'11. 17,

181~.

:F'. R. HASSLER..

COAST SURVEY

APlUL

15, 18-12.

Present: 1\fr. Cushing, l\'lr. Aycrigg.

. James Ferguson e:i:amined.
1. Question How long hav~ you been employed in the <'oast survey? Answer. Since 10th May, 1833. 2. Question. In what capacity ? Answer. As n principal assistant; one of the three principal assistants. 3. Questio.p. What particular part of the duty <lo you at present perform? Answer. l\faki11g the secondary triangulation. 4, Qnestiou. ·who makes the primary ? Answer. l\fr. Hassler. 5. Question. ls there any essential <lifferenee in the scientific principles of the primary and the secondary triangnlation ; nnd if so, what? Auswer. The primary rcq 11irr.s an instrument of great power, nnd of nicer graduation ; them is no other difference. There is no difference in the mathematit'.al elements. 6. Qnestion. Cannot «11y scientific person, who is competent in nnd well pr!lctisecl in the secondary triangulation, perform the prin.mry? · ;\.uswer. The primary requires more mathematical knowledge than the secon<lary. trn<l greater kuowlcdgc of practical means; but to the whole question, I answer, yes. 7. Qumi1io11. If Mr. Hassler should die, must the survey stop, for want of auy perso11 in the smvey, or in the cou11try, to take it np and carry it on? Answer. No. 8. Q11eslio11. \Yliich l1as proceeded furthest in advance, the primary or the secotH.lnry triangulation ? Auswer. The secondary. I aud, that the s.~condary is ncccssnrily imperfect, i.uasmul;h as it uepeuus 011 the primary for its verification. !J. Question. If the primary had preceded the secn11uary, might not the latter have bee11 veriffo<l as it proccoded? Answer. Certainly. 10. (inestion. \Vhy ltas the primary been a1\owcu to remain in arrears o[ the secondary triaugn\atio11? Answer. I cannot say. 11. Qnesti~u. Is not the secondary triangulatio11 snflieit~nrly ~ccurate for all practical purposes iu the publication of a map of the work so far ns it · I hl\s gone~ , Answl'r. Yes; for all practicul purposes. 12. (~nestion. From what point to what point 011 tlw coast have the secondary triang11latio11 autl the l1ytlrographieal smvey been completed? Answer. The secondary triangulation has uceu completed from Point .Jnt.lith, inclnuing the so1111d and both sides of Long lsluud, to Cupe May, covering both shores of New .Jersey, and including the whole of the Delaware on both sides; n1Hl it also crosses the pc11insula to the Chesapeake, where it is now in prngrcss, hnt not yet completed. I refor to the officers engaged iu the llydnigraphical work for answer as to that part of the question. . l .'3. Question. Do yon expect that nny perceptible error in the secondnrytriangulution will be tlctcctctl by the further progress of the primary?

2
Answer. I should think the maximum error woulu not exceed five feet in the whole distar1ce. 'This I infer from the work already verified, where the error proved to be no greater than this. I refer in this to my own work; but 1he other may be 1· for nught I know, more accurate still. 14. Question. Did you use the main triangulation as the )lnsis of your work (the secondary triangulation) wheu you commenced? Answer. Yes. · 15. Question. Do you not in fact proceed.in the -secondary triangulation at present in the same manner as in the primary? / Answer. The only difference is the difference of the instruments. 16. Question. You have exhibited to the committee abstracts of the whole work on the coast, from Point .Judith to Cape May; what objection is there to the publication of those abstracts? Answer. The first objertion is, that uo base of verification has yet been measmed; the second is, that we are uncertain as to the diiforence in any meridian in this country and any in Europe, to a· minute and a half in longitude; and the third is, that we have not yet determined the ellipticity of the enrth. · 11. Question. Is either of those things nccesi;;ary to give Qractical utility to the soundings aud distance~ in particular bays or harbors? Answer. Perhaps uot ; bnt the superi11tendent will of course take care of his character a;; a man of science. · . 18. Question. In y1Jur opinion, onght the prncticnl use of the work, by its publication, to mariners, to be deferred indefinitely, for the supposed purpose of allowing the superintendent to take cure of his character as a man of science ? Answer. No. 19. Question. Has the cha ractcr of the supcrintcnclcnt as mau of science sutfered by the pnblication of the charts of New Haven and Bridgeport, and ~ewark bay? · \ . Answer. No. 20. ·Quei;tion. ff not, what injury wonl<l it do to his character as a man of science to publish a chart New York harbor? Ani;wer. None; such a map is now in the c11graver's hands, for publicatiou. : 21. Question. What injury, by the publication of charts of the whole· coast, from Point .Jriditlt tu thu Delaware?. Answer. If it wcrn practi1.:ahle, none . . 22. Question. Do you famish tho points of obsrn·ation to the sounding parties your~ch·es? Answer. They are ascertained by 1\s, rP.porte<l to Mr. Hassler, and by him furnished 10 the ~:onnding parties. 23. Questio11. Do you reduce your own observations? Auswer. Yes, certainly. 24. Questio11, llave yon been engngEid in Maryland in 1835? Answer. No; I came i11 Maryland in 1830. 25 .. Question. Was any hody clPo eng:.igecl in Mnryland in 1835? Answor. Only Mr. Hassler, with Mr. Jamt·s JI. Alexander, as a.' mere nconnoissance. 26. Question. Hus there been any ditiicnlty in procuring suitable points for observation as far as the main tria11gulatio11 has proceeded? Answer. Yes; since we eutered the valley of the Dela ware. Question. Where first?

a

or

·:n.

Answer. At Monnt Rose) near Princeton, in New Jersey; somein. opcming the !ine from Newtown; then at Willow Grov~ ·and at Stony ,Hill; some difficulty i11 con11ecting Mount Holly with the point below; a. gopd'denl at Yards. These obs1ructio11s could not have occupied more than five months. 28. Question. When is it you propose to measure a base of vcrificati,on? Answer. It is spoken of for this year. · 29. Question. W·hy has it not been done sooner? Answer. The work has not been sufiicicntly advanced. It has beell . thought desirable to obtain such a lino on the Chesapeake. 30. Question. What is the prescut condition of tt1c pince of the original base line? Answer. I have not been there since 1836. Then the beach was considerably washed, but the points were undisturbed. Now, I understand, the beach is changed, and the base in danger ; but the clements of it will bo preserved by 1he mountaiu base, itJland from tho original base. 31. Q11estio11. Will a minute and n. half's difference between the European and American meridinns show on ordinary maps? A uswcr. Yes; it would he about n mi lo. 32. Qnestion. Why has uot this difference, in tho course of the ten years since the rc:stfm ptiou of the smvey, hcen a~ccrtaiued? Answer. I cirnnot answer that. We have observed eclipses of the snn~ We have mndo no other dbservations for the longilude. 33. Question. Have the observations thus made bocn reduced? Answer. Yes, and calculated. I n<ld, that, if we had considered it a. sini: qua 11011 to determine the longitude, tho time occupied in this way might have rct 11·dc<l the other work. 34. Q11estio11. Bnt you have previously said that tho want ofihe determination of this fact was one oft ho obj~ctions to pnhlishiug any part of lhe \Vork. A1iswcr. I saiJ it was an objection, but I did uot mean to be understood us saying that it wus an insuperable objection. 35. Question. Is the absence of u base of verification any insuperablo objeetion to the publication of the wol'k along Long Island sound ? Aus\ver. I think not I say no. 36. Question. Is tho survey engaged now in mcnsuring nn arc of a great circle of the car!l1, with a vie\V to asccrtai1i its ellipticity? A11swer. That will be one result of tho ~urvoy, and a ve1·y importnnt one, in a scicutific point of view. 37. Question. Whon will that result be reached? Au~wer. It should await the measuremeut of the baso of verificalion. 38. Question. Is it necessary to havo mcusurcd such an arc, and verified the ellipticity of the earth, before it is possible to publish a map, for prac· tical purposes of navigation, of Loug Islaud sonnJ? Answer. l think not. 39. Question. Where uro tho results of the work, so far as completrU, now kept? Answer. In tho Jo pot of tho survey, at \Vasbington. ·10. Question. Ani they in duplico te? . Answer. Some; not all. Tho primary triangnlation is all in dnplicat('. ()f the secondary, mine is not. As to tho rest, I do not know. 41. Question. Of that which is in duplicate, ure both parts kept at tho depot? Answer. Yes.

4

.~~e 't~ *JJe been destroyed

' 4_2. _Qµcstion. Scverp.l o! the pu\>lic buildings at· Washington have from

by fire ; is. the depot a fire-proof building? . · · Answer. No; it is not. . . 4~: Questio.ri. lf the results and other mattA1·s in the depot should be de:s~r.(Jy~d by fire, must not the work be c]oue over again? Answer. Yes. Precautions have been taken to enable the speedy removal of the papers, if the building take fire, by their being in cases ou .the ground floor. 44. Question. Of the work in chiplicate, why is not oue copy deposited f~r saft:i keE:ping in the Treasury Departmer1t? · Answer. I do not know. 45. Qqestion, Is all the work in snch a stale that, if Mr.' Hassler should a.ie suddenly, it may be used, aud reduced 01· calculated immediately by others? Answer. Yes. FnmAY Ev.i.::s1No, .!lpril 15.

R;i.:amination of Jl{r. Ferguson continued.
Present: Mr. Cushing aud Mr. Aycrigg.
'

[l\o·D.-'fo make the evidence more dietinct, from question No. 46 lo question No. 74, it
111u11 be ob.11Crved, that the statement nftt·r No. 74, (marked A,) the 11tatomont murkcd "to bo annc:ied to Mr. F<>rguson's evidence," nml the nlntement marked "to be aanoxcd tu Mr. F~rgnso11'11 testimony," together with the chort of Ncwork hoy, rof..rred tu in question No. 48, wore pre· ecntcd nt th.c brginning of this meeting; tho atutcmcnte having boen proviously prepared, in 1"riting, by Mr. 1''ergu~on, in answer to questions put to him by tho committee &t the previQUH mee,til)g.] ·

.

4 6. Question. Is there any stibstantial and adequate reason why the mathematical elemeqts of the work should not be published as parts of it arc completed? Answer. No other but thnt it will require time to put them in order. 47. Question. At what time i11 each season do you ·take the field? Answer. This is stated in the schedule annexed, and marked A. 48. Question. The're is shown by you a published chart of Newark bay, purporting to be an extract from the Uuited States coast survey ; is there any meridian on .the map? (Annexed, and marked B.) . Answer. No. 49. Question. Is the latitude or longitude of any part of it given i' Answer. No. · 50. Question. What is the length of Newark bay, as stated in this map, from Shuter's island to the coufluence of the Passaic and Hackensack rivers? Answer. It is, by the scale of the map, five miles and eighty-two-hundredths. Bnt the scale is un erroneous ono, and was not published or verified by rhe superintendent. The actual distance between the two points specified is five miles and six hundred and tweuty-tbree thousandths, obtained by me by measuring on the original topographical map . .51. Question. Please to inspect the map of Newark bay, whicl.1 is now showu to you, marked C. . Answer. Itappears to be the same map, engraved from the r.ame pit.to as H; but thescale is differeut, and is at the same time erroneous. Jt seems to be written Ylfh·lf instead of Tlf}n, or erroneous in the proportion of 2 to l, or about that. S:l. Question. If the chart of New York 1 or any part of the coast1 bo

published, do you apprehend any dangerous error WOitld be infrodU'ceq by map sellers ? . . . · . Ans\ver. If published without cnre1 there would, undqubtedly. 53. Question. Is it considered judicious to suppi·ess tho re·sults of tlie survey, through fear that, if published, mnp sellers may make· crrcfrs' jn copying the maps for sale ? · Answer. No. 54. Question. Is the surve}· of any practical use, nu less p11blished? Answer. Yes; in the experience acquired by tho officers of the riavy a11d others engaged on the survey. I am not a ware of any other. ·· 55. ·Question. Do you understand the proper uses of tho survey. to be eonfined to the instruction thus acquired by the officers engaged in it? Answer. No; the uses arc a knowledge of the coast for commerce ahq navigation, ~.ncl a communication of it by a pnbli~ation of the maps. , .. 56. Qttcst1on. Cnn the survey be or any pracncal nsc to the country at large, without tho publication of charts aJHl maps? · Answer. Certainly not. 57. Qnestion. \Vhere are the instruments used by yon repaired ? Answer. A.t ditferent pluces, but geuernll}r at tho office of the su1~vey herP-. 58. Question. Ifove yon hu<l any difllculty in t1rocnring i·epairs at 'other places? . . Answer. I have scarcely ever hnd occasion for repairs; I s~1ould thihk not excoediug five dollars in amount ~duce 1833, wher1 I entered tho sur;.' vey. All my instrnmeuts arc of l~uropcan mn.rntfoct11re. They n.fo good instruments. 59. Question. What necessity is there of plane-table parties, except near the coast? Answer. N ~ absolute necessity, except for the i>ccondnry triangulation 11ear the coar;t. . 60. Question. How for in from the coast have plane-table parties gone 011 the survey ? Answer. I cannot say precisely. They n.ro carried on by Mr. Gerdes, .!\Ir. Sands, Mr. Boyd, Mr. Dickens, a11d Mr. \Vor111~r. (i I. Qnostio11. Do tho plane-table partie:'I reqnirc nrnch science? Answer. They require practical skill. 62. Question. \Vhon a secondary triangnlatiou precedes the primary, is it 11ot a sccoud without n first? Answer. Teclmicnlly, it is. 63. Question. Ts it not working wro116 end foremost for a secondary to precede n primnry triangulation? Auswer. I think not, because the secoudnry loses none of its accurnry by the primary following it. 64. (~ncstion. Can you ascertain what the cn·o1·s of the secondary a1~'c ,Jntil yon lrn ve the primary? Answer. No. 65. Qtiestion. How nre your distunces mcus1\rod? AuMvo1·. In French metres ·. It Is not tho standard oflhc country, bnt it . is the standard best nuthen.ticutcd, and best known in geodetic operations. Our standard is tho English yard. The foot is the most common tnensuro used in thia country, both for scientific nn<l practical purposes.

6·
66. Question. Is tlte metre in common use in this country in any way? . Answer. No. 67. Question. Is it not as easy to convert yard measure into metres as metre measure into yards? A.nswer .. It is the same thing. 68. Question. In that case, what benefit is there in having the work of the survey in metres ? An&wer. None but what I have given before. 69. Question. What is the standard used in the English survey ? Answer. Either the English yard or foot. 70. Question. '\Vhat is the object of the proposed second bnse line? Answer. To verify the work. 71. Question. Cannot the work proceed north and south at the same time? Answer. Not at prc.ient~ without a larger appropriation and more persons ; at 'least, that is my opinion. 72. Question. Have you a general knowledge of the configuration of the coast? Answer. Yes, to Cnpe Henry. , · 73. Question. On what part of the coast, north or south, can the work he carried on most easily? Answer. At the north, by reason of the nature of the coast. 74. Question. O(how many points on the coast has the survey ascer·tained the latitude and longitude? Answer. I shonld think my own points were five hundred; and, altogether, a thousand.

A.
.... -·---·-·--·-----------.--Yl'ar.
-~----·----~-·----···--------·------

Tima of taking fielJ.

Time or going ho111e.
----·-· --- - - - --··-· ---~---··-··-

--·- -.--------1833

1824
1835 1836

1837
JS3S

-

1839 1840"
1811
.·.

.------. - ·--

MaylO February 20 April 6 May l .April 25 May 20 April 15
June 16

February 15
·- --------···---

_____ _____
___.

De.comber 28. December 3. .January 10, 1836. December 9. November 25. November IV. November 29. December 22. December 12.
--··-~-----·--··

.

l t must be understood that these dates are given from recollection, and . can only be relied on as accurate within a day or two.
·This year I wa1 Jetained longer frum field work, to ealculato trianr;les uecolil·o.ry fer the map of New York.

7
Numbe1· of staJions miule in eacli;·
~·'-

i

In 1833 Jn 1834
In 1835

24 64

In 1836 In 1837
Ju 1838 In 1839 In 1840 In 1841

26 28 13 10 15
16

7

203
[To be R!lllexeil lo J\fr.
}'t·rguson'~

cvi<lrurc.)

'fo tl1c question of the committee, " 'What is the distauce between Shuter's island am! the point at tho confluence of the Pnssaic and Hackcusack rivers, und what the mean width of the bay of Newark?" Mr. Ferguson answers : . That the distance bo1wee11 1he abo\'e points is !i.623 statute miles, and the mean width of the bay of Newark 1.37 mile. That on a map of the said bay, printed :it the request. of the collflctor of Newark, the disti.ince between Shuter's island and the point between the Hackensack and Passaic. is 5.82 statute miles; but that this map has nn erroneous scale attached to it, and was not published or verified by the superintendent of the survey. The map a ppoars conformable to the original of the survey, but the scale given for it is iurorrect. To the question of the committee, "How many poiuts were determined in 1833 in the maiu tria11gulation, and what distance were they apart ; whnt extent of country did they cove;; what number in 1 S:H, 1835, 1836, 1837, 1838, 1839, 1840, aud 1841; und what cxtuut of country do they cover?" Mr., Ferguson answers: · That tho part of the question as to the distances" upart~'·is o.nswered by giving, in the following schedule, tho length of tho longest nnd shortest, lines of the survey each year; that it is diflicull to divide the works of successive years from each other; and that the compntalions are given in gross iu square statute miles, presuming that the rommittce merely wished at\ approximate and compumble estimate. Ju 1833, length of longest line~ miles - 41.:~ ( Square milescoverlength of shortest line, miles 7.2 S ed, l,S50 Jn 183·1, 1835, a11J 1836, though other stations were ' occupied, the primary triangulutiou did not cover any additional space. · ln 1837, length of longest line, miles 20.6!.l ( S ·1 · ' . length of shortest line, .miles s. 73 S qnare 1111 es, 318 fo 1838, length of longest line, miles - 38.11 ( S ·1 . length of shortest line, miles .. 23.29 quarc ml cs, 300 ln 1830, longth of longest li~1e, mi~es - 31.QO ( s 11 c mil 8 l 070 length of shortest hue, miles 10.93 S q nr. e , ' In 1~40, length of longest lino, miles \8.51 l s e ·1 209 length of shortest line, miles 12.30 S qua.r mt cs,

s

8
ln 1841, length. ~-st Ji~e, mi~es lengtA · _ est lme, miles Square
IQil~s.®vered
1

- 31.02 i Sq mi.re m1.,es, 330' _ . S 17 07 3,577 by whole primary triangulation

It is but· £air, and perhaps also necessary, to state to the comm'ittec that the effect·.of the primary triangulation, in the progress of the s·urvey, is not prii>perly estimated. by the number of square miles within the polygon which it makes, l.Jut by the quantity of secondary triangl1lation for which it afforded the bases. In this view of the subject, the number of square miles covered in each year would be much increased.
[To be 11nnexed to Mr. Ferguwon'11 lr.sLimony.]

1833-Buttermilk. Round. Bald. Tashua. Mount Carmel. Ruland. West Hills. 1834-Dase measured. 1835-Reconnoissance in Maryland. 1~36-West Hills. 1857-Rulaud. East base. \Vest bas~.

Harrow. 1838-Weasel. Springfie\<l. 1839-Bea< on Hill. Disborough. Stony Hill. Mount Rose. Newtown. Willow Grove. 1840-Willow Grove.· Moun.t Holly. 1841-Y!!rd.

Upon tile examin<JliJn of 11/r. Ferguson.

The c:aptious questions 5 till lo, inclusive, could of course not elicit any thing; the answers prove it. .Answer to question 11. Mr. Ferguson mistakes. 'rhe answer to 13 would be best calculated over again, us the result indicated needs verification. , ·Answer to question 15 enters under the same predicament as from 5 to 1O. Answer to question 16 is very right; bur answer to 17 su"ijects it to a personal modification, wliich it ought not to do, as tlie principle in itself is fully decisive; the question itself is badly styled. Question 18 is grounded upon the bad turn iu which question 17 had been placed; thcnco the 19th and 20th are of no value. Questions 21 and 33. It is well known: that not all cau be done at once;. the work has always been carried on with the full c-clcrity which the disposable means allowed. 'From ·all the questions 22 till 27, the committee could in no way expect any valuable information. Answer to 28. I thought Mr. Ferguson knew helter. Question 30. The care of the base-line monuments is given into specia i'nshuction tp the light-house keeper of Fire IslatfPJ beach, by the collector
·The station of Willow Grove wns occu11ictl bolh iu 1830 11nJ 1840.

9
of Npw York; when I wo.s .there lo.st, only in one
plo.ce;~near

two-thirds o!

the line, the water had washed in, as far as to go_ across th!) measured line,nt high water, but the line is fully secure. Answor to 35 is upt sufficiently reflected nuJ cleared up, because, for a. part of.the district in question, work is actually iu doing, while it is proper, in good principle, to go on only gradually to further distances. Question 36 show:s again great anxiety, lest the coast survey might lead to in honorable scieti,tific result; Riter this, the questions until up to 42 are evidently useless. To question 42 an answer migpt be given, speaking very nmch for the safety of ihe coast 8urvcy office again1:1t fire, which I told to a member of the committee. The rest of that 1st examination is trnshing straw. Question 46 to 52, inclusive, arc void in all possible respects. Questiou 53 must be discussed ngaiu here, as it seems it is insisted' tlpon liy the committee: that the money of 1.he ualiou shall be spent for the lll'lllcfit of chart sl'llern, un<l the public confi<lencc i11 the work. therefore the ~fe~ curity of lh.c utility of its restdls, be thrown iu tho wiud. . A proper orga11izutio11 of this subject will be proposecl in due lime, when t.he stat~ of the work will dictate tho regular series of ptiblications, it is of 110 use to speak now nearer upon it, than to state: that if no regulnr·order aud arrungemnnt i~ made in t.his respect, the maps which may be given out will be vil~fiect. · · The questions .'H to 56, inclusive, are ruiscarried catches. Questions .'i7 and 58 appear to ha vc beeu dictatnd by au instr\tmcnt maker out of work, for they cunuot serve the work iu any \Vay. Questions 59, 60, 61, <i2, 63, 64, 65, 66, an<l oi, prove that tho committee was fot.igned in iuventing questions, and had thrown itself into n vicious circl<>, which Mr. Ferguson nllimately solved, iu tho answer to question 68, by reforriug back to what he hud said belhre. · The answers to questious 6!.I till 74 must hnve been highly instructive· for tho committee, as the}' offer much field for specnlation without bottom. The discussion npon 1he Newark buy mup, requested so minutely from. Mr._ Ferguson, shows evidently a high degree of resonrch npnn mnthemntical ncruracy, und similar subjects, which exceeds itself again, when it comel'l to determine the square miles covered by triangles who have but three corners, as wrll expluiuc<l at the end of lhc article.

F.
WMnnNG'l'ON C1n·, Jmw01·,1J, 18..J3.

n.

HASSLER. ·

F11rnAY EvENJNo,.t/pn'/ 15, 1842.

Present: J\lr. Cn·,hing, Mr. Aycrigg.

Bxamination nf 1vlr. B/11111.
1. Question. Do you know any snHicient reason why mnps and other· results of tho survey shonld be withheld from the pnblic knowledge ? Answer. None, when they arc in suflicicntly complete state lo be tlseful to navigntors. . ·

10'
2 . . Question. Is any part of the survey sufficiently complete for that

nowt

Answer. Yes. 3. Questfon. How much ? Answer. New York harbor is being reduced for the engravers. Long Island sound is r.Dpable of being reduced from Point Judith to New York. The outer coast is already complete, so far as expresi;ied, from Montauk point to Great Egg Harbor,) believe, with exception of off-shore soundings. 4. Question. How far inland from the coast has any part of the work been carried ? Answer. I am unable to say, except in regard to the secondary triangu·· lation, which 1 have in part conducted. 1 am one of the principal assistants. 5. Question. Are you acqnainted with hydrographical surveys in England? Answer. Yes. G. Que~tion. Do they publish results as soon as ascertained? Answer. They are published in sheets so soon as completed, to be useful t.o na,vigation. 7 .. Question. Can copies or information be obtained by individuals? Answer. Yes; 1 have known copies to be obtained repeatedly for my ·brother, who is a chart seller; as from the Thunder and from the Bl,ossom. B. Question. Does the hydrographical olfice in England derive any profit from the sale of the charts? · Answer. I think £'WO or £300 per annum. The charts are published under the direction of the Admiralty, with the seal of the Admiralty to authenticate them. 9. Question. Have yon applied at any time, as an iudividual, to the hydrographic office ? Auswer. Captain Beaufort offered to give me personally any information 1 desired.. This was when I was a private individual, before being -connected with the survey. 10. Question. In your opinion, could the work be extended north and south at the same time? · Answ~r. It might, with more force; and with the present force, if the line of verification were uot to be measured. We can proceed more rapidly at tho north thau at the south with the triangulation.' 11. Question. ln going south, do you apprehend any difficulty in the hydrographical part of the work, as distinct from the topographical? Cannot the mere coast survey be prosecuted without leaving the coast and going inland ? Answer. No. . 12.' Question. How do you propose to survey the coa.st of Virginia? Answer. By carrying a series of triangles down the Chesapeake bay, and by extending them up or down the valleys of the rivers, as circumstances will allow. 13. Question. \Vhat w1tnral elevations have yon in lower Virginia? Answer. None of any consequence. 14. Question. What do you propose to use as a substitute? Answer. Artificial elevations and signals. 15. Qllf!Stion. In what way do you propose to triangulate the region Dismal Swamp, and similar regions of country? Answer. I have no knowledge in regard to that region. 16. Question. Are we not greatly deficient in knowledge of sounding, ill Buzzard's bay, Nantucket shoals, Cape Cod, and Massachusetts bay?

or

1t
Answer .. Yes. ., ' 17. Question. Is not a knowledge of those soundings of the· greatest im})Qrtunce to pavigu.tion .? Answer. Y~s; it is more wa11tcd there 1ha11 nuy where else. Mo.re ton~ m1ge passes. · Most vessels from Europ(\, for New York and Philadelpnin, come between the Gulf stream and Nantucket shoals, in addition to the navigation north of Capo Cocl. l\fost of tho coastiug trade comes through· tho Vineyard. . 18. Question. What amount of work or repnirs hnvo yon hnd done in the office here to iustrnments? Answer. Nothing but tl1c u10nr11ing of one telescope, which came from Europe without a stand. I lmve had no diftlcuhy i11 obtaining repairs elsewhere, if lJCC'ded. 19. Qncstio11. Should you thiuk it ueccssary to have a mcchuuiciu.n wilh -yon in the field ? · Answer. To measure the uuse line it might be desirable; not otherwise. 20. Question. 'Vus any copjicr imported for the engraving from Vienna? Answer. Yes. · 21. Question. Wus it used? Answer. No, 22. Question. Why not? Answer. It was not considered suitable. 23. Question. Cau good copper for engro.viug be procured in this cou1ltry? Auswer. Ycs. 24. Questiou. lla\·c you 'had any practice as nn engru ver? Answer. Y cs. 25. Question. Ca11 imprnssioni-: he taken from a plntc in an uufinished state, to show the progress of" the work? ' Answer. Yes. 26. Question. Cau impressions be taken from the plate~ now engraving iu the survey? · Answer. Yes, withont injurr to tlicrn. 27. Question. !.tow loug will it take lo furnish the eigl1t plntes of the· bal'bor of New YOl'k, with tho present force, at the· rate it now goes on? Answer. I cannot state by cnnjPcture. I should think about three years. 28. (~ucstion. Is it not possible to hnve the work done accurately and' more rapidly than n.t presc111, if more ltu11ds wore put on lhe work? Answer. Yes. 29. (~neation. ls it 11ecessary to have u workshop for the repair of instruments at the office? Answer. I am not able to siw. Tltorc ure some iuslmnw111i.; for which j( is convenient. ' . 30. Question. In what timu could the New York map ue fiuished? Answer. There might ho an engravor for each plate. :H. Question. Of wlmt usn arc tho plane tables, so far as regards navigation? Auswer. I U<' not consider it of any uso lo extend tlte smvey uny forther 1.mck than the slope of the hills at the head of navigation. 32. Question. Are the plane tables fnrther back? Answer. I do not know how far bnck. I presume they are. 33. Qnestion. 'What is tl1e siguification of tho words "primary triangu-. lation ?" Answer. They signify the main series of triangles on which any work to be surveyed is based, extending as far as possible throughout tho work.

·3 l. Question. What is a·secondary triangulation? Answ~r. It is a series commenced withiu the primary triangles, extending in whole or in part through the same, nnd dependent on the primary series. , 35. Question. Is it possible for :i series of secondary t1·ia\1gles to cxi~t where there are no primary ones? Answer. No. 36. Question. Is not the use of secondary triangles for plane-table parties. to furnish detailed paints? Answer. Yes. 3'/; Question. If in any work there 110 bnt one series of triangles, doe~ any such fact exist as primary and secondary ? Answer. No. 38. Question. When you commenced, was uot the secondary triangu!a-· tion intended to be, as the name imports, scco.ndnry to and within a primary triangulation ? · Answer. Yes. 39. Quf'stion. Is it so now ? Answer. East of New Haven I ha vc extended a main triangulation h> Newport, and filled up the same with a secondary series of triangles. 40. Question. Is the main triangulation determined by Mr. Hassler, nllll ending at Yards and Mount Holly, of the same nature as the main or as the secondary triangularion by you, east of New Haven? Answer. The same as the main triangulation by me, east of Nc\v Havc11,,

Remarks upon the testimony of .Jl:lr. ll!unl .
.!Jnswer' lo tltird question. I should have expected Mr. Blunt'hclter irt· formed upon the scientific requisites, to admit fairly publications of m11p$ ofan extent of coast, than he shows, by this answer. The extent of coa&t cannot honestly he published before the system of primary triangulation, is positively enclosed between two bases, filled with the main triangulation between them, because this is absolute requisite of tlie proper loca·
lion. The indiviunal maps of bays &c., arc all that can be givon to the pul>li<~ with propriety, upon special call, as has a\ ways been Jone hitherto, in uny of the parts of the country actually enclosed in a finished system. Answer to si:cth que.~ti'fm. In England they l1ave the maln trlangulation before them fully r:recuted, since hrforc tlw cntl of last centw·y; they can therefore work in any place, grounuing npon that part 'which is near to any harbor, bay, &c., and are enablrd by that to give it to the public by piecemeal, which is not allowable, where the triangulation is not made beforehand. It will, besides, be found: that this piecemeal commn~ nication is all, and the full coast map I wish ;yet lo see.' .!Jnswer lo questions seventh and eighth. These show evidently that in England, a.y properly due, the authentic maps of the survey arc not delivered over to ch.art sellers, but that they must, as proper, pu1·chase I hem f'l'om. th.e office, and that is the only hows! wa:i; of doing. Mr. Blunt, who gives the answer, is the head of the firm o( Bdmund ~· G. fV. Blunt,.

.'13
cltm·t sellers, in New Yori.:. '\1hy be does deny bis partnership is for him to answer. ~!Jnswer to eleventlt question. Is properly answered by a fiat: No. Questions twelve, thirteen,jourtu11,fifteen, sixteen, and seventeen, are useless, being, as prospective, without any principles, and ill placed, as proves all this . .!lnswer to questions eigltleen a11d twenly·nine. It is evidently not to' be asked the partner of a seamens' instruments repairing shop any question about a part of the coast survey establishment, so indispensable for a work -0f the extent of the coast survey, as the establishment to keep tho instru· ments in constant good order, and make such works as I must require for my own use. No man can judge upon the full extent of the value of that l:!stahlishment bztt myself. From a rival who expected to have these works a$ an accessory, of right~ to his share, there could be 110 expectation of an appropriated answer. , Questioit nineteen. Shows the ignorance of the questioner and answer. A.Mwer to question twenty-three. It is well known to the person answer· i11g, that the copperplates can be prowred in tltis country, but that they arn £mpo1·tedfrom abroad, tho importers often putting their own names upon tl1e plates, as he offi:rc.d it to me ltimself. The actual state of things I have explained elsewhere; tho foll truth is withheld. . Jinswer lo question tltir(IJ· Shows the ignorance of the man who can say that there coul<l Le an engraver to each plate. If he know the very first principles of tho organization of au engraving establishment, he would state that the work must be distributed according to its lcind, as done in the survey, and each kind of work, of caclL plate, to pass through the compe· teut hand purposely engaged for it, and no't eaclL plate a man, as little as tlio same assistant makes. tho secondary triangulatio11, the plane table, and 11Jo sonndings, in the same quarter. How tho plates are distributed I have stated elsewhere . ·!J.nswei' to questions thirty-one and tMrl!/~l wo. It is expected that, upon such snhjccts, tho direction of the superiutendont, who oversees the whole extent of the worl<, deserves more attention than that of an assistant, who sees, ef course, distinctly only within his limits. JJ.nswcr to quc.Yti01i thirty five. The simple no says nothing. Mr. Blunt -0ught to have been suffered to explain, as I doubt not he would be nble, that the secondary triangulations nre allowable to be extended as well' wit hilt as willt0ul tho mniu triungnlation, to a cert ail& limit, with the so.me certainty, and that, thernfore, in both cases, the main triangulation is equally the guide of the sccoudary . ·IJ.nswer ~lJ questions thirtv-six, tliirty·seven thirty-e1'.gld, thirt,'lj-nine. mid for(IJ. All this is so asked, and so u11swered, as to bring out 110 proper inform~tion; it stands slant; us it refers to the further prosecution and organization of the work, it is entirely out of place to enter into any explanation prospectively.

"r

F. R. HASSLER.
Asm""aTON

CrrY, January 1843.

Ai·nJJ.

so,

is42,

Present; .Mr. ,Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg,

1.::r:amination oj' Captain Swift.
. l. Queslion. Arc you employed in the coast survey; and if so, in whut

capacity, and since whnt time? . Answer. As an assistant, since 4th April, 183:t I nm also the disbmsing agent; since about 2d July, in the sumo yoar. 2. Question. \Vill you fnrnish to thn committee an exhibit of tho exp~nditure on the smvey for the. years 18'11 uud 1842; say of the· appropriation of March, 1841, classifyiug the sumo so us to show the amount cxpe11de<l on tho maritime, and ·the amount 011 the laud part of the work; th~ amount 011 the primary and ~ccomlary triaugulution, and on the plauo ta blcs; tho amount for salaries) and for cxpenditlll'l' ut the bureuu; aRd in tho same wtiy oC a11y ,imd all other convc11ic11tly specified classes of expendi-

ture?
Auswer. The answer is am1cxetl in t\le papers murkl'd A l n.nd A 2. 3. Question. \Viii you furnish to the couiruittue a copy of a. printl'U pamphlet 011 tile coast smvey, dbtributc<l umong thu llll'llll.icrs of tho Hon~c in February last? Answel', The ,pamphlet is anncxot.1, (market] H ) 4. Quei;tiou. ls tlicre uny suliicicut n·aso11 for snppressing or oniilling to publish tho results of the Slll'Vl'Y as 1h11s for a~ertaincd, u!H.l us the samo may continnu to bu obtained? .Answer. No, I thiuk not. 5. <~11estio11. May not mups ot' specific co111pletod parts of the surve~r be published, while tho work is in pro~rl'ss 011 ()(IJOr parts of' the coast? Answer. Ycs. 6. ·Questio11. Of how largo· U part n( the l'.fl:1Sl is lhc SIU'Ver llOW SO for completed that snclt maps might be p11blisl11·.d? Answer. Tlw whole Long lslu11d SOlllld, i11cl11Jiug both sides of Lour; Island, New York harbor, and a porlio11 ol' 1lw uorthrrn part of New Jersey, coast allll interior. . 7, Question. Might not the sou11Ji11gs, po!:<il io11 of heudlaml!<, a1ul the

or

like, of all so u111ch of tho coast, ho llOW published? Answer. Y cs. 8. Question .. Is t.hero any s11Dicic11t nwso11 for withhol<li11g from Congress the mathcmatiral clements of !lie ::;11n·ty! so far as con1pletod? Answer. No. · 9. Question. Tu whoso possession aru tlaos1~ fo.cls a1Hl da.la at this time? Answer. They aru at tho o!licc i11 \Vashi11gto11, so for as complolcd, nncl except 1m far as parts of the work 11ow i11 progress arn iu tho hnu<ls of the assistants. IO. Questiou. Arc tl1cre clnplicatc·s of th1: obserrntious, measurements, and other unpublished elcmcnls of the snrvcy? ' Answer. There arc or parts, blll. I 1fli11k IJOL or tho whole. 11. Question. Arc lhu clements or the ln\su li11c, and of other prim~1ry and essential parts of tho work, in such form an<l sitnntion us to be secure from loss by fire or other wise, u11d bo ca pa Lie of being huu<lml over to nrn.l understood by any competent succ~~ssor of l\fr. Bussler?

·15
Answor. All this is in duplicate In the office, accessible to the assistan1s, and susceptible of being uuderiotood aud used by them. No part of thi& has been published except the final result of Fhe base measurement. Tho details have not been published. The papers are subject to the hazard of fire ; but not more so, and perh~ps less, than iu some other buildings in Washington .. 12. Question. Is there any objection to depositing ouc of the duplicates in each case iu the safes of the Treasury Dcpartmeut? Answor. No. 13. Question. Would not tins be proper, to guard agaiust accidents ? Answer. It certainly would add to the secmity. 14. Question. In what way are tho principal duties of the survey subdi~ vided between the superintendent and his assistauts? Answer. The duties of Mr. Hassler, in addi1io11 to the general supervision of the work, arc the main triangulutiou, while tho as~istants aro' employed in t!Je secondary triangulation and dctailf!d smveys. 15. Qucstiou. Is Ll10 main triangulation in arrears of the scconclnry; nnd if 80 1 why? · Answer. It is. I nm not aware of the reason, cxcC'pl the illness of Mr. Hassler, and his inubility to do it, cansed thereby. 16. Qncstiou. Cannot tliat work be performed by one of his assistants? Answer. Yes. 17. Question. How loug has Mr. Hassler been so ill as 11ot to be able to attend to that work? Answer. It was i11 October of last year that he bccu uw ii I. I fo was alse> ill the preceding year, in September. 18. Question. What prevented his taking the fiehl and performing the work in tho spring and stfrumer of those two years? Answer. I um unable to say. 19. Question. \Vhat sum is allowed to Mr. Ifa:s.sler, annuullr, for ex· pcnscs, exclusive of compensation? Answer. Salary $3,000, nud expenses $3,000. 20. Question. For what cxpeni:;es is this :!):1,000· tksigued ? Is it for personal expenses ? Answer. I suppose it is the expenses of living. 21. Qn~stiou. ls he paid for other cxpew;es wllllll lie goc:.i into the field? Answer. He is furnished with on instnirmmt carriage u11d horses for the instruments and himself~ and o. baggage wugou besides, for instruments, at the public expense. · 2~. Question. Is it tf10 Emme carria.ge which ho is aceustomod to use in Washington ? Answer. Yes. 23. Question. Arc horses and men pa.id ut tlw public expense for the carriage and wagon tl1rough the year? Answer. Yes; four horses, one permnucnt driver, nml one other mnu, who also assists nbout the ofiico. · 24. Question. Please to specify, in the uuswer to tho 2<.l question, tho whole of the cxpc11ditnrl'S on these carriages, horses, irnd men, us aro of the classe:; of expc~11<liturcs therei11 referred tO. Answer. It is co11taincd in the puper a.nncxct.I, and marked A. 25. Quc:-.tion. What aro tho precise dn1ies performed 1.iy Mr. Hasslet during tho chief part of the year, in which he remains at Washington?

16
Answer,. The. w.e~hts and measnres, and the· computation of' his ow.n. -tielc;l WPJ'lcfand occ:as1onal general-computation. . . fl!J. Questfon. Do not the assistants reduce and compilte their owr1 work? .A.uswer; Y.es. · SATURD.AY, May 13.
Pre.sent: Mr. Mallory, Mr. Cushing.'

Continuation of

~he

examinat;ion of Captain Swift.

27. Questiou. Do y.ou wish to add any explanation to the papers now produced in answer to the 1st question, and marked A 1 and A 2? Answer. In compa1·ing the aceountsin the papers marked Al an_d A 2, and in the printed sheet B, there is a discrepancy in the sums, assigned to the secondary triangulation and plane-table parties, respectively. Th~ manuscript (marked A 1 and A 2) is the later and correct statement, the stateme~t in B being an approximate estimate, ma·de up before the complete .settlement of the accounts. · 28. Question. Does the whole amount expended pass through your hands, and how is it drawu from the Treasury, and on what vouchers paid? Answer. A\\ the CXIJ>enditur~ for work on shore passes through my hands, also the tier diem allowance of the officers on boa.rd the vessels, and the extra compensation of the lieutenant commandant; but the other payments, in the hydrograpliical part of the worJ{, do not pass through my hands, being made by.the commander of the vessels. The money expended by me is received by me from the Treasury, on requisition made by me on the· Department. All the disbursements, except' for salaries, &c., fixed at the Treasury Department, are made under the 11uthority of Mr. Hassler. 29. Question. Who prescrihes the number of su}?ordinate persons to be employed, and the a.mount of miscellaneous expenses to be incurred? Answer. The assistant in charge of each party, subject to the con!rol of the disbursing officer. 30. Question. Who appoints the persons employed in the survey? Answer. Mr. Hassler. · . 31. Question. Who fixes their compensation? · Answer. If below $1',ooo, Mr. Hassler; if.more, it is referred to the Department. Such is the practice, so far as I 1mow. 32. Question. hit necessary to have an instrument maker's shop in th~ survey? Answer. I think it is both economical and convenient. An amount of work was done there the la~t year fully equal to the cost of maintaining the shop. 33. Question. Cannot some portion of the topogra,PhY of the survey be .dispensed with without detriment to the hydrograph1c part of the work} Answer. I conceive that the plane-table survey is useful, but it may npt be necessary for any hydrographical object that it should be so far extended. 34, Question. What, then, is it useful for ? · Ans.wer. I do not know any thing, except that it contributes to a more .exact knowledge of the topography of the country adjacent to the coast.

;:.A>f1i,

'Si~~~::;t s~~~:, '.~WJnJj~~~~'gr~tf:fV,,{~h;~~:J/{/!~~\~~,.
durang .thq;ear 1841 ~nd a.part ef,1842. Amount expended .by Captain W. ·H. Swift, from 1st January, 1841, tb 31st December, 1841 · . · - . .. .. ~S0,639· lS Amount expended by Commander Thotnas R. Gedney, 17th May, 1841, to 31st' March, 1842· I · ,: 9,1'62 49 Amount expended by· Lieut. Commandant Geo.· S. Blake,. llth March, 1841,-to 28th 4,766 77 F.ebruary, 1842 0

Y~rk,

1

··

$9,4,568 31

Details of the e:»pendilures.
For the main triangulation, including the compensation of the. superintendent, the heliotropers, and hands employed therein, and all incidental expenses, except . ho~seS', wagons, 8.1id harness, and repairs; of :same; and pay a.n,d subsietence of driver · - $9,289 87 For horse keeping, (4 hors.es,) repairs of one instrnm1mt carriage, one wagon, harness, and pay and' subsistence of driv.er. .: · -· - 11445 98 . For the secondary triangulo.tioni including the compeflsalion of the assisto.nts, heliotrope.rs, and hands employed therein, and all incidental expenses, except horses and wagon$, harness, nnd repaiJ."s ofditto ·· ' · ..· , ;. · 20,656 .14 For horaes, horse keeping, repairs·of wagons, and harness, pny and subsistence of 2 drivers, (3 2,160 -74 wagons ~11d 5 horses) · Fol'. the.·plane-tap{o surveys, including the compensation of the assistants and the hands employed therein, antl all incidental expenses For the hvdrographic i>urveys: Amount paid by Cap,t. Swift to the naval assistants, for the authOrlzed allowance of $627 per annum to. the' lieut . commandants, and of ·~H per day to the lioutenants and passed midshipmen · 8,644 94 For amount paid by Commander T. R. Gedney, · from 17th May, 1841 1 to 31st March,184~, for repai~s of 2 vessels, sails, boats, pilotage, and incidental expensos,c-,(Washington and,Jersey) 0,162 42 For amount paid by Lieut. Com't G. S. Blake, fot aame from 11th March, 1841, to February 28, 1842, (schooners Gallatin and Nautilt,1s);.-: 4,766 77
i

.110,7~5 .85

Fot expenses of the coast survey offi.Ce, inclmling rent, fuel,
- · . ·. )igbts,"llnd atte.ndance ' ~ot;expenses of the instrument maker's shop, including the com'peiHiation·of t~e perso~s ehlpl~yed therein, and the cost ·of tools and materials purchased for sa·mc For compeusation and expenses··of the persons NnployetHh engraving the chart of the.harbor of New Ybrk ;.. For the general kcpenses of· the work, including the compensrttiou of all assistants and others not embraced in the pre- · ceding schedule, and all purchases alld e'Xpenditnres not specified in same - '
1,999 17
~,SJ

8 11

'2~011 !4

94,56~

14,900 75 !32

·~====~

W. -II. SWIFT, Disbursing Officer Coast Suri·ey.
'W..UHINGTON, Jlfay
4, 1842.

To Captain

8u11"fl~a

examination.

'I'o qnestions 4 and 5, the answ~r does not enough distinguish between the different state of the differe1it parts of the work. Hays, harbors, &c., single detached parts may be given ont, like detailed plans ofcountry, disconnected with the ger1eral work of the map ; but it is positive destruction of the work to publish extents of the coast before a full sysrom between hvo bases, and two astronomical main stations, at considerable distance, is completed and joined by the main triangulation. Questions 6, 7, and 8, are entirely erroneous in their application. The reports contain all that is proper to b~ puLlished ; nothing proper to publish is withheld. · Questions 12 :rnd 13. There is so much of economy spoken, and still in this an expense is proposed, e1itirely useless, and in mauy·rospects imprope!, on account of bad eonseqnences, that might come from it, without :giving mea11s to increase 1hc work. J\nswer to i4. Forgets entirely that there is a scientific part in the work, · which· cnmrnt be mndc without work, and which I alleud to; that it is found valuable by men of science, .js published by them, and even can bo witnessed. ·· i\!1isw\:lr 10 15-and 16. Notwithstanding I was eick at yards, lnevet· missed a single. observation po;~sible; Caplain Swift;wns ·not then 'Ptosebt at the t>tation,,(Yard!!.) · · Answer to IS. I was the two y-ears ·kopt from going out by rcports,a&Jced, · standards finishing, &c. Answer to: 33. 'fbe qnestion being made only as a catch; it ·ought to hn\ro been remarked: that, withottt ·the- topogrnphy to LL ·certain ,distance, it would, in mu11y cases, not be possible to· de'terniine upon \vhich ·srde of 1he li1ws there lies water or land; th~ distance to which the topography must go camiot 01t1br\vise but be left to the operator.. It is positive non· sense oJJly to 11eat that suhject; in modern science a.nd snrveys:it·is··well known what is 111ea111; 011ly tl1e sea-charts of the /01iJest gt·ude·of former limes are without topography. ·

N9.'J\J!l.-Tllll p1,1blication questions .sh<mld a}so .be an1w:ere.d frqi:n.:the side that all persons engaged in the coast survey are actually ~m,pl~y~.d; and .t}la.t if Ql0,1.'13 sho.uld be puh1ished, more .men would ~aY.!' Jfl.:be .·ppointed, or other actual sur.vay work must be ueglectedfQr 1t,:aMhfHa('lp10priation is a dete1·mined quantity, ·within which the work is to be done. I~ is well known that. of. all· the coast-survey a11d we.ight 1md me.asuro w.orks, 1iot even the alz'gh/e8/fneqna e:risted, and that:when attempted in.11ouy other way, but by me, it always signally fuilrd. Now when~ is the jtUitice

and reason .to disbelieve my organization, 11.nd statcmcn.ts, turd tOr1i\J1ler, to be guided by imperfoct knowle~ge, but-can really any good .comf) cmt of such a course ? ·
1WAsJUNGTO.N CITY,

./a1J.uary, 1843.

F. R.

HAS.~LER.

MAY 2, 184!<).

Present: Mr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.

E:r.amitiation of Captain

Thoma~

R. Gedney .

.1; Qtlestion. Are you :an officer of the ·navy? Answe.r. Yes. '· 2. Question. Arc you now employed in the coast survey ; and if.so; since what time and. in what capacity? ·Answer. I have been ewployed in jt :.ince October,. 1834, in.c~arge of one of tho hydrogrn phicnl parties. 3. Question. How mnny of such parties are there? ·. Answer. Two. Tho o.ther is commanded by Lieutenant Blake. 4. Qnestio11. How many persons, and what vessel or vessels, a,re ,Glll·

plQyed in your party? Answer. Last year I had two vessels, the schooner Jersey. and, the hrig .Washington, with, I think, fourteen ofiicers, all-told ; aud, I believe, th1rtytwo seamen and forty-four boys. This amount of force was necessttry . .5. Question. What sur.veys have you mado &ince October, l8S4.? Ans,ver. I have been engt\ged in .ml\king soundings. !commenced .itt .Fire .Island.bay in 1834; then :the 01.1,ter coast of Long Island,.in 1~SS. from Fire island to near New York; then the harbor and .bay of New.York~ .a,nd to Montauk point, a\ol,lg the onter coast of Long Island, in pa.rt of 1835 and in 1836 und 1837; in J 838 and l8S9, from Fisher's island' to B'loclc ~sland and Point ,Judith ; in 1840 .1,1.nd l !341, on the coast of Now Jersey, as far as Egg Harbor. These soundings inclndC"ulso all tho inland navigation from 1'.,irc island to Egg H1ubor. Jn addition to thii:i, in 1R41; I ·performed a .piece of detached work between Cape. Henlopen and .Cape May. ·6..Question. Have you completed th<MOtmcliugs along the whole extent of.coast from Point Ju1lith:to·Egg .Har.bor? · ·Answer. ¥es. , 7. · Q~lestion. Are those soundings, aa ~erlfi.ed:by you, in a condi\ion to be !]>Ublished?

Answer.

Y:~s.

20
· 8. Question. Do you make any astronomical. or other observations · o,n the coast? Answer. No, except so far as may be needful to keep my own time. 9. Qnestion. Have any views of the corist been taken by you or from yonr vessels? Answer. Yes. Mr. :Farl<!y has taken a panoramic view of the whole of Long ISland and of oll the light-houses wherever I have sounded. We have taken no other views, except of the entrance of the new channel in New York harbor. 1O. Question. Is the coast of Long Island an easy or a difficult one ? Auswer. I think it an easy one myself. l l. Question. 'Vhat is the chief occasion of wrecks on Long Island? Answer. When vessels are running in, and are caught by a l1envy southeaster, it is difficult to get ont, from the trending of the two coasts of Long Island and of New Jersey, and the current setting from New Jersey coasr, by reason of wl1ich vessels, bciug thus embayed, arc apt to be driven on shore. 12. Questio11. Have you sounded Jamaica hay? Answer. Yes, in 1835. l 3. Question. What depth of water did you carry into that bay ? Answer. Six feet at low water, eleven and a half at high water, in common tides. At the present time, the depth at low water is seventeen feet. 14. Question. "\\r ould not the knowledge of the actual depth of the water in the channel leading into .larnaica bay be useful to a vessel which was llnable to claw off the coast? · An~wer. Y cs; it might preserve a vessel from being stranded. · 15. Question. \Vhat amount of repairs of instruments have you had done at the ofiicc of the coast survey ? Answer. I cannot. say. 16. Question. Have you had other repairs done elsewhere; and if so, by whom, and to what amount ? Answer. I have had repairs <lone for our, or my, party, the last year, to the amount of forty or fifty dollars, by Mr. Montandon, and by George Illunt, of New York, it having heeu conveuient to have this done on the spot there. Ii. Qne~tion. How far inland <lo any of the points extend which you Jmve mmd, ns fnrnished you by any of the triangulating parties? Answer. Some of them have been from ten to twelve miles inland. They ·Were used for measuring angles from the vessel and from different points. The poillls wl1ich I occupied for measnring were generally on the coast, within a <piartcr of a mile of the beach. l S. Question. Please to describe your mode of proceeding in this rei:pect. . Ani>wcr. I have three officers on shore, at three different stations, with a Hcxlant ·and a. watch each, and a boy with a spyglass also to each station. 'I 1he11 am anchored or lying to off shore in my vessel. I make a signal in the morning, when I get under way, to commence work, I knowing that the men are at their statio11s hy their hoisting a. signal flag for that pur'JlOSC. I commence by nirining up a signal ; so soon as the signal starts from the mast head, the officers on the shore measure the augle between the brig and one of the stations, and the officers on boaid the brig~ two of them, then measure ouch of them an angle between the stations 011 shore,

21
so as to give in all five angles; each offlcer, as well on shore as. on board~ marking the time, to see that they agree: Meanwhile I nm taking my soundings, on the change of which the signals arc repeated aud new angles taken as before. In' these observations I consider the vessel as a fixed point. This system of operation I have been able to carry out as fur ::is twelve or fomteen miles seawards, which is the greatest distancu I have gone. I can see the land inland about ten 01· twelve miles from the shore, along that part of the coast sounded by mo ; but if the lnud were higher 1110 distance seen would he much greater. 19. Question, Did you sound tho now chanuol, commonly called Ged. ncy's channel ? Answer. Yes. 20. Question. Would you have been uble, with the ordinary facilities for sounding, to ascertain that channel, without the previous triangulation of the ceast ? Answer.' Yes; I could have buoyed it out so far as lo make it' equally useful to navigation . .21. Question. Is the knowledge of that channel of great importance to the shippiug of Now York? Answer. I think it is. 2~. Question. Could not master of a vossel, when employed off tho harbor of New Yorlc, with such i11fonnntio11 us a good chart of the harbor would furnish, run his vessel in with tolerable safe.Ly by that channel? Answer. Yes. 23. Qncstion. Do you know nny reason why a chart of that chnunol has not beeu published ? ' Answer. I do not know any, unless it he that it was not ready. Mr. Hassler has charge of that; I have not . .24. Qnestion. Wheu did you souud out 1hn.t chauncl? Answer. Ju 18!h 25. Qurstion. Is not the channel ns good now as when you first soui1d· edit? Answer. Yes; I sounded it again last year, for tlw purpose of ascertaining tho fact, and fou11d it so. 26. Question. ls the line of tho coast, where nxamined by you, fixed or subject to clrnngo? Answer. Tho beach itself, at the mouth of small iulqts, is subject lo change, with severe gal'.ls of wind. 27. Question. ls the topography of the country within tho coast of any importance to 11a viga1ors? Answer. It is not, except for four or five miles, or where there is 1111y remarkable 1~miuence or other ol>jcct inlan<l. 28. Question. Is it customary to lay down the topography of the country on lhc charts of navigators? . t Answer. I hnve never seen it in any charts except of isla .. ds. In charts _of tho West .India and other islands it is sometimes given; but in thos6 cases it is not nccrssary for purposes of navigation. 29. How long <lo you contiuuc souudiug, one year with nnother? Answer. I generally commence iu Muy, and leave off early in November. 30. Queslion. Aro you able to keep up with tho triangulation? Answer. Ycs; and I have· been in u<lvnnco of the plane-table parties.

a

31. Qttestion. Are .the plane-tttble parties: necessary to tho soundings? Yes. · :IQ; Question. If you hnd occasion to sound at a greater distance: frotn the shore than 12 or 14 miles, how would yon proceed? Ai1swer. I should employ small vessels, anchoring them to serve as fixed pQints; or it might be doue by means of chronometers, starting from some giV'en:or known point. 33. Question. What proportion of the year, and of the day in each year, have you been able to make your observations, and carry on the work? Answer. The a11swer to this question is annexad in paper marked A. 34. Question. Have not your operations along the coast either corrected errors in printed cha'rts or added many new and more complete soundings to those herPtoforn published in auy chart? Answer. l believe they have. 35. Question. Do you know any reason why the sounding~ taken by you shoi1ld not be published? Answer. I do not.
An~\lter.

Commander Gedney's

e:ramir~ation.

To questions 7 and 20, 35. How can soundings be published, without their locations being dctermi11ccl? This location is <lone by the land operation. therefore the questiou is captious an<l futile. Question 11. These rmrents are complicated, and variable; they require therefore probably still more investigation. Question 16. The often-repl:atccl question about the instrument maker's room or shop, in the coast survey office, which i1:1 so evidently indispensable, for the daily wauts of keeping all instruments in order, and whel'O all the plane table instl'uments, an<l similar, are made new, show1:1 rather a propensity to delay, than to advance, the work, which by it gets i11depend1mt from all waiting for the co11vc>nienco of extraneous artists, and which so often already has saved importation from Europe. Questions 23, 24, an1l 25, aro well answered, but. it is known publicly that the general map was engraving when the questions were asked, and that two special mrtps for special purposes had been delivered for the use of public olfices. Questions 27 and 28~ Commander Gedney mistakes hi~ answer, as the French atlas in the office prov1~s the contrary, an<l the works of the coast survey must not be govcrne-tl by the bad precedent of charts maue only for sale. . Question 3b. The keeping together fJf the topographical and hydrographic.al parties is kept up as much as localities admit, at all events al.ways suffi. ciently to advance the work; the hydrographer ca11 never go, with any ad'\'antage, much ahead of the topography; nor is it proper that he ~hould ndveuture himself to work withc>ut it, to ·r.my extent, as it cluplicatcs the labor.

F. R. HASSLER.
WASHINGTON C1TY,

January, 1843.

23.
MoNDAY, l1:lay 2 1 18·12.

Present: Mr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.

Examination of Lieutenant George Blalcc. 1. Question. Are yon an oflicor of the navy, employed in the coils~ s1u../ey; aud if so, in what capacity, and since what time, a11d on what part
of the coast ?

Answer. I am a lieutenant in the na\'y, nnd have hall charge of a hydrographical party from 1835 to tho present time; I have been in Long Island sound and Fisher's IRiand sound, and in Delaware river a11d bay. 2. Questio11. Whnt vessel or vessels, and what nninber of officers and men, have you under yom command? Answer. My force has varied very much ; I had la~t year t.he s~hoopers Gallatin and Nautilus, with nine officers awl fot'ty-0110 mc11. ,· ~J. Question. Have you hren engaged in the outer or the inner waters? Answer. The inner altogether. 1. (~nestion. What proportion of instnm~e11t~ have you had maqe or ;re~ paired at the office iu \Vashington ? Answ~r. I have Heldom had any sextants or gbj>!'CS repaired thc~e1. hut a large part of the drawing instrnmonts have hr.en made there, to th~ yaluo or cost of say $500 at any private establishment, that is, tlnring tb9 whole time I have been in the survey. · ' .5. <-luestion. Hm'e nny views of rocks, shoals, or other dangerous pl.11-~~s, been taken from vonr vessels? Answer. No; ·views have bean taken of all the light-houses .. G. Question. II ave yon, in the cxnminat ion of Dela wnrl1 bay, dis~ov~;rcd any great errors in the supposed location of any shoals? A uswer. Y cs ; very great. 7. (~nestion. In what cases? Answer. In that of Cross ledge, espccinlly; but there is no pro,per chart of Delaware hRy; the only one extant is a mere rude sketch. Th.e error in the cnse of Cross ledge was four rni Ins. l thi11k. 8. Question. Is it not important that thei;;e errors should immediately 'Qe mude known, and a correct chart of the bay published?
Ans~vc1'.

Yes, m1do11btculy.

wi1l1holding from t))e pnl>lic a knowledge of the soundings of Delaware buy, as for as vcri.fi~d by
9. Question. Do you know of any reason for

von?
· Answer. T know of none. 1O. Question. Can a topographical map, so co11strncted ns to giv(;l .in detail a full and self-explaining pictnrc of th<i co1111try, that, with the u:aap before the eye, the military operations may be properly jndged and guide~ in tho cnbi11ct, he obtained, in carryi11g 011 the coast smvcy, withqut ~cl~ ing greatly to the <'xpcuse, and materially delaying the executi()n of .tb,o work? Answer. No, it eannot.

Upon the ex~mination of Lieutencmt Blake. Question 4. The account asking of the instrument shop occur$ again;

24
these qQestions together have taken more time than it would have cost thecommitlee to see its propriety hy a full visit of it. Questions 8 and 9. Lead no farther than all such, the under-water part of the work can, of course, not be presented to the public) without the land part to which it belongs, who would without it know where it lies. By question 10, (the last,) the select committee appears to constitute itself into a council of war. ·

wASHINGTOY CITY, January, 1843.
MoNDAY, May 30, 1842.

F. R. HASSLER.

Present: Mr. Mallory, Mr. Aycrigg.

Mr. W. J. Stone's examination.
l. Question. Map marked exhibit C being shown, witness is asked if he recollects the map. Answer. Yes. 2. Question. Who engra vecl the map ? Answer. I dicl. 3. Question. Is that an exact copy of tho original sent to you from the Honse of Representatives? Answer. It is. 4. Quesrion. How long did it take yon to engrave and print this map ? A.nswer. In from seven to ten days it was fully executed and delivered to the House. · 5. Question. 'With what person connected with the coast survey did you communicate at the time you engraved this map ? Answer. Mr. Hassler. I called on him, aud had a conversation on the subject. 6. Question. Exhibit ll being shown and examined, he is asked if that in an impression from the same plate. Answer. Yes. 7. Question. Will you please to examine exhibit B, and sec if there is any difference between this and exhibit C? Answer. The only difference that I can perceive is, that nnorhcr scale has been pnt in the place of the one engraved by myself, which was copied from the original. B. Q1,1cs1ion. In what manner was that nltcration made? Answer. By cutring out the engraved scale and inserting one with tho p·m. The engraved scale on exhibit C is 3 inches to the mile; \l:hile the scale inserted with the pen is nhir th, being, in fuel, Ginches to the mile, instead of 3. · 9. Question. Have you the origiual extract sent to you from the office of the coast survey ? Answer. I have. 10. Question. Arc ~here engravers in the tTnited States competent to execute, faithfully and correctly, any work like that required for the coast
~urvey?

·25
· An$wer. Yes; as well as it can ·be done in any p·art of the world: . 11. Question. What is considered a liberal salnry for a good workman ? Answer. About $1,200 per annum. . 12. Question. Is there any difficulty in getting good cppper in the United States for cugraving purposes? Answer. No difficulty whatever. 13. Question. How long will it take to engrave the map of the harbor of New York, and what will it cost? · Answer. I cannot answer without examining the chart. The chairman then gave Mr. Stone a uote to Mr. Hassler, of the follow. ing tenor, as near as remembered, viz: requesting Mr. Hassler to permit Mr. Stone to examine the manuscript chart of the 11arbor of New York. The committee theu adjourned.
'l'HUllSDAY,

./1me 2,

184~.

Present: Mr. Mallory, Mr. Cushing, Mr. Aycrigg.

f'Villiam ./. Sta11e in e:ramiuatlon.
1. Question. What is your business and residence?

Answer. I reside in Wa!.hington, and I am an engraver.
2. Question. How long ha vu you followed that business here ?

Answer. From twenty-three to twenty-four ycurs. 3. Question. Have you been nccustomed to engrave maps and charts? Answer. Ycs ; that has been my chief, and is, at pl'Csent, my only business; I ha viug abandoned other branches of c11griwi11g, to devote myself to that. 4. Question. Is there any <lifliculty in procmi1.1g competent map engravers in the United Sto.tcs? Answer. None. 5. Question. Do you know of any special superiority of German engravers over those of thP. United States? Answer. No; I consider tho American workmen better, cleaner, and more rapid. 6. Question. Please to look at the map hereto annexed, and marked A. William J. Stone, and state whether it is th9 original map sent from tho Honse to yon, and from which you engraved the mup of New:ark bay, a:J mentioned in the first part of yQur testimony. · Answer. It is. 7. Question. What is the scale 011 that manuscript map? Answer. Of three inches to tho mile, as on the map I engraved. 8. Question. Annexed is a map of Cape Cod, (marked H, William J~ Stone:) did you engrave~at? Answer. Yes. 9. Question. How long docs it take, in your cslublishment, to engrave such a map? A11swer. About two monthi-i. 10. Question. What are the dimensions of that map? Answer, Thirty inchos by thirty-six inche!l. 11. Question, When were you summoned by the committee to attend and be examined ?

26
Answer. I received Mr. Mallory's letter on Mopday, the 30th May, and

atte1}(}ed.that morning.
12. Question. Was that the first intimation you received on the subject? Answer. Yes.· 13. Question. Have you Jiad previously any conversation with any mem-

ber of the committee on the subject of the examination? _t\nsw~r. Never, of any kin<l whatever. 14. Qnestion. Had you any knowledge of the purpose for whicll y®. were summoned ? .Answ.er. No. · I{>. Question. Did you, as requested by the committee, cQ.Jl on MJ'.. Hai:sler, aud preseut the note of the chairman ? Answer. I did. · 16. Question. What occurred? Answer. The interview was so disagreeable, tliat I would rather not describe it, unless it be insisted on by ,the committee. The chairman therefore propounded to the committee tho following qu,estion : Shall Mr. Stone be required to state what o~curred in his interview with Mr. Hassler? and it was determined in the allirmative-Mr. Mallory, Mr. Aycrigg, and Mr. Cushing, present, and voting. The question being again propounded lo Mr. Stone, be answered as folfows: I went to Mr. Hassler's office, and knockeu a.t tho door. A servant showed me into his room, and asked me to sit down, and in a minute or two Mr. Ha"Ssler came in. J then handed him Mr. Mallory's letter. Mr. H. read it, and immediate I y foll i11to a violent ragi~, and swore that I should not .see the map, neither should the committee have it. After much rudeness and violent language, !JOth towards the committee and me, Mr. Farley; came in, aud Mr. H. hnu<led him the.letter. After some further conversa·· tion, Lieutenant Page ciune in, and Mr. H. showed him the, letter, and fur~ ther conversation ensued. At length Mr. H. permitted mo to examine the map, which I did ; and on my departnro, he handed me a letter for the chairman of tho committee, which I delivered to Mr. Aycrigg. This letter is annexed, and marked C, F. Mallory. 17. Question. How long would it take to engrave such a m:ip,and w.hat would it cost ? Am.wer. It would require about a year, I think. There are eight plates, each .of 22~ by 32~ iuches, making 5,912 supcllficial inches, which, at 3 cents per inch, would be $177 36, for the copper; the engr11ving, the sum of $4,132. This estimate is given for the execution of the work in the best and most accurate maunnr, understanding that the parallels of latitude and longitude, with their subdivisions, axe marked in by an officer of tho survey, and the engraving is to exactly correspoucl with tho same, which must ensure an accurate chart. I have made .iiberal estimate, to enable the engraver to enter minutely into detail, and to do justice to himself and to ,the·Government.

Remarks t1pon M'I'. Stone's examination.
Answer to question 2. Is not the fact; Stone did not engro.ve it himself, .another person did it, in his pay.

27
Answor to question 4. 1 Thn time, imlicatcd fur the work appelill'.S .vccy. doubtful, unloss clone coarsely. ., Answer to question 5. Is entirely incorrect; Stone came with a map, (perhaps the one quoted,) wanting to show it to me, Sl\ying: it is not a "-.ne work, but it ·will lie a good solid work!' I refused minding it, u11d directed him off with it; this was ull tho conversatio11, for l had theu, as nlwnys,,the same opinion of him. ·· Question 6, 7, .~,and 9. A re sullicieutly. refuted Lr Commu11der Gedney, u 11d other facts. Answer to question Io. The topographical draw'ing, us used in good style of maps in f~nropc, lias never yet hee11 done in this country. I challenge posiliv<'l!f 1.hc exhibition of one. To make the· coast survey maps in the same way ns the sea charts, and the work shown nuder Stone's name, would be n positive disgrace to the work, and the state of the art sud science in this country, thence it is uot admissible for the work. Stone can only engrave cards, and 1;uch like, as I have a man in tile wej~ht and mm1surc, works to m:uk tlw standards. ·' . Answer to question 11. l\lr. :::lto110 i.~ uo judge of what is a liberal pay for goetd work, l>ccausc, 1st, he nc.wer intends to pny work liberally; 2d, h~ is not able to disti11guish between the qualification of the actual art of the topographical work. · Answer to l}\lf~stiou l2. upon the getting copper, l\lr. Stone's statement is not very close ; the tlifi1culty of getting c~)ppcr ought rnther to be referring to the qualit.y nm! and whence it comes originally from. He knows as well as J: that lie gets his plates from the importers of them, and that them nre 110 other good large plates iu the country; he hidmi this truth. Answer to questio11 I~. Whether examined or 11ot examined, Stone.cannot give a fair csti11111te of tlm work of the map of New Yol'k, whon h9 was shown it, he could oulr measure it with a foot rule, u111l said, "we do not mind these mou11tai11s," that is, in other wurds, aclrnowlctlging incapacity for th~ work.
,\'/011c's 2d illfr1·rogalor,11.

Answer to ·qnr~stion ·I. To ask a man, so ignorant in his pretended nrt; as

Stcmli is, au opi11io11 about other conutry's artists, can nf course not produ,ce an a11swer worlh u11y d1i11g. Questions G null. 7 are old r,xplo<lecl ropeti1 ions.
A nswcrs to 8 and !J will need cm tificate; hesi<le, the work is bad. Qncs1ion 10. The siz.e of tlw nmp is the smaller Jctcnnining clement; the quuutity of fine work upon it is the principal critcrio11. Stono cannot even luwc ii done. Questions and answers ·11, I z, l '3, 14, 15, are evidently an ugreod upon farce between Q. and A. Answer to question 16. It is positively !"Ar.s·: that I cvor swore Ito should uot see the map, or touched a11y thing about the cummillee. I re.ceived and treated him in words, as he knew that he deserved it of me; but to the committee I wrote frankly anti open what l fouucl, nnd still fm<l, wrong in the transaction. I told him at the first, you ure not able to put this map upon copper; he acknowledged instuntly "I know tliat very well." This, for him, unavoidable acknowledgement is the only fail' part of this whole transaction of tho attack upon me, which I, with full right, declared .to ex·

28
ceed entirely tho limit!! of propriety. The inimicality of Stone to me was well known to the members. / I gave direction to show Stone into the uvper room, where the map was, which he, in real undertaker's way, measured with a foot rule, in hope to have to order the coffin for it. Answer to question 17. Is completely incorrect in every individual part. Stone is as little al>le to judge upon the case as to execute it; neither num. b.crs nor statements are true. F. R. HASSLER. WASHINGT·)N CITY, January, 1813.

ToroGRAPIIJCAL ENG·INEirns, IVasltington, lJl/ay 1 7, 1842. Srn: I have the honor to acknowledge your direction to report upoD certain queries from the select committee on the coast survey. Of the queries on the paper A, the 4th is the only one applicable to the War Department. The following is the list of army officers who have beeu employed 111 this duty: Major John J. Abert, corps topographical rmgineers, in 1816. Major John J. Abert, corps topographical engineers, in 1817. Major John J. Abert, corps topographical engineers, in 1818. Lieutenant W. G. McNcill, of the artillery, in 1818. Lieutenant J. A. Adams, of the artillery, in 1818. Lieutenant J. R. Vinton, of the artillery, in 1818. Captain W. H. Swift, corpR topographical engineers, in 1832, 183!1, 1836, 1837, 1838, 1839, 1840, 1841, an<l 1842 . . Major Abert and Captain Swift were, while so employed, also the dis~ bursing agents of the Treasury Department. It is not in my power to state either the "army pny and emoluments" or any "additio11al pay" which these officers received while on this duty~ as the accounts in the case do not pai;;s through this ofl1ce. The Second Auditor will be able to furnish the information i11 reference to army pay and emoluments, and the First Auditor that in reforenco to additional pay. The queries of the paper I3 are the following: 1st. Whether 11 part of the topographicfll corps of the army can be de· tnched for the purpose of the coast survey. Answer. This can undoubtedly be done; probably from four to six could .be detached during the present season ; u11<l more, as the variou:J surveys upon which the corps is now engaged arc completed, if other du~ ties are not in the mean time assigned to it. · 2d. Whether the expense of the serviec of the coast smvey will proba~ bly be reduced by detaching a part of the topographical corps. Answer. '!'here would certainly be a reduction, to the extent of the civil agents, and the amonnts of compensations paid to them, who would have their places supplied by officers of the corps. 3d. Whether the expenses of the survey of the coast will probably bo reduced by employing other persons than oiliccrs of the army and 11a vy to perform the duties they are now employed to perform in the coast survey. , Auswcr. This is a question of cornpensatious, supposing qualifications to
BunEAU OF

be equal in e'nch. As officers of the army and navy draw their pay' (roan the army and navy appropriations, it is dear, that, if some of these are employed in the coast i;iurvey, the appropriation for that survey will be reliev~ ed to the amount of their pay; and equallr clear, that, if these office1·s are not so employed, but others in their places, these others must derive their compensations from the appropriation for the coast survey, and the appf9,· printiou be taxed to that extent. Very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,

·
Hou. J. C.
SrENCER,

J. J. ABERT, Col. Corps TopograpMcal .b'ngineen.

Sec1·etary of f'P~r. Remarl.:s upon tlte lei/er qf Colonel .!Jbert.
The enumeration of the military officers is incomplete. I am obliged by it to enter into a. historical statement, why the relation between the coast survey and the army is such as it is. Two officers are omitted in the statement-Lieut. ·IJ.. D. Mackay and Lieut. J. V. Bomfard. The latter was present only in 1833. But, in relation to Mr. Mackay, I must stntc the fact which broke Clff the employment of military officers, except Captain Swift. · Lieut. Mackay had beeu, in 1832, with me in the first reconnoitering for ·the coast survey in Connecticut. He liked it, and I wished very much to retain him; bnt, dnring the winter, he was ordered off, to quell the inRUr.rection of the laborers upon the Chesapeake and Ohio canal. When this duty had un ~nd, I applied again !or him. Speaking to that effect with the .Secretary of'War, I was directed to .Major General McComb. When I entered his room with him, he pretty loudly said: "No sooner ha'\l'e I ordered an officer somewhere, that there comes a reclamation for another disposition. Can you not get other people to your work?" I answered: ·"Yes, sir; I can get plenty English, French, Poles, Swiss, &c." To this, he answered immediately: "Then take your d--d Poles, Swiss, German5.1 &c., and let my ottice!·s alone." At this interview General Wool was present, who, it seemed to me, partook of my propensity to lo.ugh upon the scene. Then I related the circmnstance to Colonel Abert, who was rather displeased with the result of my application, as were also several other gentlemen in office. · Lieut. Mackay was or1.Jcred to Florida. I attempted again a written application for him, alleging, that any officer without the qualifications which Lieut. Mackay had, could do equally well the service in Florida; but he had left within the proper time of his order, and, on his voyage to Florida, :was drowned, by the misfortune of the steamboat. That, upon such a reception from tho Commander General of tho army, it would have been highly improper: to make any further application for officers, is palpable. The work could not stop for that; and I got very soon opportunity to get able nssjstants from the civil rank, which .· as my contract shows, were, toith most undoubted p>·opriety, considered as equally appropriated to be appointed to the work; so that very soon all tho places in the coast "Survey were well an~ ubly filled \Vith men, engaged satisfactorily in it till to this day.

30
· ; More persons than are now employed in the coast sur\'ey, it would b(': To change those .now employed, would be a great loss to the work in which they nre now initiated, and which goes on very well .ind quielly with them; whilo introduciqg any new ones now would of course break up the unity in the work; delay and deteriorate it very matl'rially, as it cannot he expected otherwise with new men. The flagrant inju.rtice which would l;ie done by such a mutation, would unaiooidahly' discredit the employment in this work, as it would show a complete disregm·d to services rendered, to justice and merit in this work; and, in the conscqncnt dis.gust, the officers new engaged would share as much as any other man. This moment is peculiarly inadequate to ma.kc any change in the personal employed, or in ~uy other part. Results are asked importunely. ovcrhastily; and the men, who conld alone help in their acceleration, to be dismissed for new ones, implies the most direct contradiction. It must be observed, that the officers of the Topographical Bureau migh1 be ever so \Vell informed, in the different branches in which they served, still the coast survey work is very different from it. Instead nf a work of cxperiouccJ men, it would again be made a work of beginners. That this would be contrary to alt economy, is too evident. I may be allowed to observe, that the pay of officers and civilians in this case would be uboul eqnal, and, lo the nrztion., it is n.f course equal, whetli.er tlie money comes out of one appropriation, or out of another. The result obtained by it is the only important part; and the advantage in this~ spect lies evidently in the continuance of all the arrangements just as they now are, in the prcseut momcutaneons state of the work especially. Therefore, there is not oue consideration in favor of any change at this time, wMle delay and danger, even of destruction, is evident in any ab· teration whatever. I<\ H ASSLEH. W .&sHINGTON C1TY, January, lS·t3.

improper to appoint now, in any way whatever.

n.

SUUVEY
OF THE

COAST OF THE UNITED STATES.

SURVEY OF THE COAST OF THE UNITED STATES.

F'urtlier rectification

of facts alleged in tlte discussion of Congress, in
December, 1842.

1. To avoid the length which the repetition ofthe ullegntious would occasion, I shall only here state the facts m their e.7:act trutlt, the comparison wjth the accounts given in the <liscussions, or retuined from recollection, will be sufficient to find out to which nllegutions they refer us rccti!icutiou. I ,fol· low the order of dnte omitting ull persounl references. 2. The mathemuticnl principles upon wltich the sur\·cy is curried on, und the methods of observation, of my own invculion, used, nrc the full proof of its accurncy, they have been stnted us snch by the men of the highest stand· ing in that bmnch of mathemnticnl and phy1:1icnl sciences. . 3. It is due only lo the accuracy in the principles of ucting on lnnd, that it is possible to mnke any <liscoveries under water, becnuse this detenuines the place where the lend is thrown, which the simple sounding opemtion is incnpuble of indicating. 4. The make of the lnnd decides how for the topogruphy must go inland, to follow the windings of n creek or river costs rnnch more time and work, therefore, also money, than the sweeping survey of the whole country in which they lie, und nil the highlands, &c., thnt may be seen from the water in nny way, must be presented by the chnrt to the aspect of nil sen.men. 5. The money spent under my direction in the canst survey, is just about half of what hns been slated; thnt sum, quoted wrongfully, is much nearer to what the Navy spent between 1818-·'28, without having nny map whntso· ever to shew for it-uccounls wouhl shew t.hnt, if cnllerl for. 6. 'l'he number of oflicers and other pernons employed al. nny one time is for less thnn stnted, those named by the ·rrcosmy Dcpnrlme111's report, urc nil those ever employed for longer or shorter time in the work; their tinlarics hnve never been considered us overrnted by the men of science knowing the work to be performed. 7. Arrogance is only when a mun pretends to whnt he is not able, whnt a rnnn knows, nncl is nble to do, and the s1.amli11g he has proved himself lo fill satisfactorily, he hos the right, nnd, us n 111u11 of trnth, the d11ty to sto.te without deserving the reproach of nrrogn11ce. 8. What. muy appear eccentricity to n nmn slnn<ling nl n dislnncc from n mnss of informal.ion, muy not he eccentric nt nil in reali1y, therefore, ecce11trici1.y is entirely only rclntivc bet.ween the persons co11cerncd. 9. 'l'he business of engraving- Rlands as follow:i: the mnps published in this country hitherto, were nil wi1ho11t what. is c;l!kcl lopographic:al drnwiug, int.he present conventional, g1~1rnmlly ncceplml liy the 111e1hod:; now used, me. required to give n llliniulurc likeurss of the country, which is c\·idenlly not the case in neither the sell clrnrls, nor in the 1r111ps of the States, in thi1:1 country. 'l'herefore, it became ncc:essary, ns I slnl.cd in proper lime to tho ·rrensury Department., tlml the seecl lo 1his pnrt of e11g-ravi11g Rhould be im· ported as yet. 'I'he engrnving of real lnntl nmps divides ilsdf in various

4
branches, the numbers, the outlines, the topographical drawings, the lettering, the views, &c., nre nil to be done by different hands, the work 1s divided by its kind, not by the plates. It. must all be done in the very office in which the drawings and general execut.ion of the maps is done, under the same direction; ofiicers of this country who have visiled, for instance, the Irish survey, will be able to give accoimt of the mode of proceeding there. Without such an organization, all accuracy is lost, and lite principal quality ef tlte work is destroyed, which of course is wasting wltat ltas cost so muclt care, labor, and expense. In this branch the cs1ahlishrncnt for the coast survey is us yet only begun, there arc now four engTnvcrs, each in a different branch, at work upon six copper plates, each of them in his special line, two new imported, and two from Philadelphia, they progress of course more rapidly in proportion as they become more habituated and acquainted with the speciality of their work. 10. Of tl1e procuring of the copper plates, the following- is the true historfonl statement. in full. The good quality of the copper for large map en· graving is a very essential requisite, they ought to be able to bear the largest number of impressions possible, in that lies the main economy, us the expense of engraving is always very great, the more it is extended to a greater number of copies, the more the economy in it is obtained. It is well known, thaL no colJper mine hns yet been found in this country that has encouraged its working. 'l'hereforc, copper had at any rate to be obtained from abroad. It is equally well known, that. Hungary has the best nnd most ab11nclant copper mines of different varielics; upon these grounds ·1 consult.ed with the former Austrian Ambnssatlor, Baron Mnreclinl, and got from him a special rccommenclation to his friend Gcnernl * · · Chief of the Polit.echnic School in Vienna, to order and procure copper plates of !be required dimensions, and of the best qurilit.y. The nwney purl of the commission, and the forwarding being can~d hy Mr. Schwarlz, the well known and amicably serviable Consul of the lJnited Stales at Vienna. · The plates arrived in due lime, before !lie engravers were even ordered or needed. However, when they were tric(l for use, they proved 110!. good, notwitl1stniHling no mnn can deny ihat precautions enough had been tnken to procure !Im hes! ci11ality. To satisfy the anxiety shr.wn for the beginning of engraving, T sent imrnedintdy the engraver to Pliilndclphia, where n copper plate planisher, Keim, mndc two plates, which were sornewhiit betler, but such lnrge plnles arc specially difiicult to get of nppropriute sufficiently good quality, it ie not tlie same thing as making small plates for a likeness or such. 'l'hesc plates were therefore, also not fully !'alisfactory, and it becnmc ne· cessary to procure real good plutes from Paris direct, where my friend Mr. Beuutems-Bcauprc~, Chir.f of Liu~- llnreau of Depot de la Marine, had the kindness to have ~0111e conslrucled for the coast survey, which lmve no~ been begun lo he usr.d. 'J'h11s after tryi11g tl1c uenrcst.,and what hnd at first been considered the bes!, without the expected eucccss, I succeeded by the third lrial only, but now w1dl. 11. 'I'he chnrt. of Ncwnrk bny wnfl given to engrave hy Congrees, before even any idea of e11;~-rnviug- for the consl Hmvcy in general had been thought or, therefo1c the c11gravc1 from HnmlHirg 110\V preHent, had 110[ ye!. even been thought r!f, 11nd the work wns taken awny fro111 the ollic:c. 12. 'l'hc leller of Mr. Mallory, rf'qt1es1ing- 111e t.o give the map of New York to Mr. Slone, to e:caminc (pl1~a~e cor1s11l1. Jol111~u11's dictionary for the

*

5
real meaning of this wor<l) an operation which woul<l require, of course, a good mathemat.icinn conversant with the principles and practice of the works , of the coast survey; I felt very hard to be subjected to the e1:aminatiun of n mnn whom I know incompetent for that tusk. I even told him directly '·you nre not cnpublc lo put this mup upon copper," he immediately answered." I know that very well." '11 HE MAP WAS HOWEVER SHEWN 'l'O HIM IMMEDIATELY' in presence of seveml nssistnnts, und he mensurecl it with u two foot rule, ns if to order the coflin for it of proper size. 'I' hose of my ussil:ltnnts who were present nt the time, were as much displensed with the circwnstnnce us myself, and I found it necessary to sl.ute on that occasion, n lin1it which I lmd hoped would not be stepped over ; Stone himself felt 1.lmt lie hnd overstepped his limits. 13. My report of lust 18th November, nnd tlie §9, above, shews the prin. ciple, upon which tlic engraving is to be carried 011, if it shall not destroy the work itself, by its inar:curar:y, for such work only 1here can be responsibilily expected from the Uoa~l. Smvcy OJ!ice, for nny work dune out of it' and given out of it in auy other u:ay, under whatever order it lllllY be, it is iui . po~sible to concr:-ive t!te sliglitest res1Hmsibility ou lite part o/. the r!lJice, it8, clmf, or am; person in it. 14. Mnny ycn!B ngo, when I was in no wny c,onncctctl with the cons( H\I'· vey or the Goven111wnl, I trit)d to join a nwp of tl1c coast. from Northern and Soutl1crn S1u1c nrnps, at. the rl'qncst. of n frie11d, hut nt their junction no coi11cidence could he olitaincd; this wns a trn11~ie11t subject of cunversntion only wi1 h Mr. Mnl lory, but. in no wuy what~ocvcr cuilllcctcd with nny thing relating to tile coasl. smvcy; there was no result possible to draw, from the want of coincidcnce, which I fo1111d, tlicnce nothing could even havo been p11bli':ll1t~d; the idcn of the work wag nlmndonecl by thatfriend. 15. lTpon the principles of p11hlicutio11 of such works m1 \'t)f'ti!L from the survey of the coast, I have nmdc lllcnt.ion in proper places, mid the cxtunples of oilier co11111.rie8 81and before the public. In all of thclll the mnin triung11lation had bct:ll given by oonie precc1fi11g s1:ic11lific 1cork, long be. fore any map Wt1s cillier thought. of, or n~k(!d for. I, 011 the cuntmry, um rnqnesled to give 111nps hcfo1c the 111ai11 1ri<n1~11latio11 can possibly be finished; tliis inreniion of the order, \\'hich ualure, nnd science, dfrtates, cnn not olherwi:-ic but givn to the work n turn, nt the snllle tin1e over luburions und often disnppointed. 16. lrnlivid1ml liarlior:-i, hay;;, pm;~""· &r., lllny be published, us have been delivered co11:i1n1Hly, upon every call for 1he111, b111. tlw connected 11lUp of the consl. Cilllllot he given lwfore die chain,.· of trinnglcs, upon which it shall be grunnd(:d, i!'I co111pkl.(!d bctwcf'll two f~ust~'i'.. To publish other speci· nlitics, or con1111unicat<! scall<~n~d data f'rom the work, would Im giving- it up lo i:ipol i111 io11 a11d ttl Ii 111ale d i.,gn1c<~. Any dc111:11 ul of II 1:1t 1' irid c:111 be guided only by in1proper pri\'l\lc itlll'rP~<t, and i:-; 1tol tu he grn1ili1~d. lt. hi for that pmpmdy :;1ip1ila1etl in 111y ro11trncl, thn1. no n·still'i'. ,;h;dl b1: µ;iv1·11 othcr\vise bnt upon call of tlw Uovern11H~111; u111il'r whom t.hc whole 111wis of this work constit.ul.es ll JU'OJICrl!J rf tlte wliolr: 1111/.iuu, i11 JJO wuy cl11i11111ble by a ~iuglo individual. 17. \Vlmt. relat(~s to the 1ww r.lia1111d al. the entranco of New York bay, hns bc(m co1n1111111icnted lo i<Pv1·rnl pt1i>lic oflirt·s i11 11u11111Kcrip1, prclin1i11;1rily to llic full p11blica1io11 of !lie of N('w York, 11uw cllgTal'ing; tlw public 11seful11ci:;s of the cl11t1111cl is i11 full nt:tivit.y, it is buoyed out, so Llmt uo delny can be n'pruuchcd in u11y way wlmt.cver.

C

/

""'fl

6
18. 'rhe cnse for which a smo.U steamboat is proposed, is not that which can apply to the coast survey ,except perhaps' in some individual cases for short times. There never have been twenty barges employed in the coast survey, as well known; to save $100,0UO annuully, out of an appropriation of just that amount, is a problem not yet soluble mo.thematically. f 9. As the money transacrions arc not of my Department, I cannot be quoted ns authority for what balance of appropriation may be on band; I,_ myself, ask for this information in tho Tremmry Department, when I need to know it, for the purpose of regulating my plan of operntion according to the means on hand. I never make any disbursements. That the work, and especially my personal party, is conducted with the sfrictest economy o.n<l, at less expense: than has ever been tlone in imy other country, proportionally to the price and mode of living, in this country and in others, would certainly prove if self by any comparison of facts (not one spring-seat sofa will be found in any of the billa.) 20. My age dates from lJt.h October, 1770. It is with life or oge, like with n.11 olher things, it lasts the longer and remains the longer effect.if; the better it is used atH.J hwibandeJ. 21. It is a direct i11jm1tire to reproach to the officers issuing from the Militnry Academy of West Poin1, and from the Naval Schools, their not being corn; petent to take the lend !n a w.urk wl1ich they are no~ !nstrn~ted ~h~ very ~rst principles of, nor provaled with uny means for. I he tl11ng is impossible for them, I n'ust state my own experie11ce. Immediately after Presic.lent Jefferson had approved rny plan of opcrnlion for tlie coast survey in 1807, from among the thirteen plans handed in, und cxami11ed, by the Uommitee held in Philmlclphia, he also dccic.led the posrpo11e111ent of the execution of .t.he work, on account of the warlike appearnnce of nffoirs will1 E11gland. At. the same time the first ProfeHsorsl1ip of Marhema:ics and Nutuml Phil<>sophy of West Point wns vacant; Mr. Garnet, a privtlte genllernan of New Brunswick, N. J., well known c111inent. Murheniarician, a11d Col. Williams, chief of the Eng-ineern and of tl1e Mili1ury Acadcp1y, proposec.I me for thn.t Professorship, which I occ11pied 1801,--'H,--'~), lo such satil'lfacfinn as letters in my possession, a11J 1l1c opinion of st.wlc11LH of tho::;c rimes nrny show. I uttempte<l to give to some (tlwn new) Lir~ut.cnnntsjmit dismissed from the Acac.lemy, some pructical inforrnarion, in a direction lending lo works of the nature in quc:ition. I even wrote upon it, but tlwy found lhcrneelves entirely unprepared, I could do only little, and they soon lcn. Dming the time I was there, and one of my fricuds (who affcrwardA died i11 Arlrnnsns) there was some teaching in this line of t.lie 8cience, wl1icl1 was ever since interrupt.eel until, as I have jnAt been tole!, it w11s again begun Inst yenr,-but it require!:! longer years of im.1trnction und prnct.icc to l~c1111ire proper proficiency in that. branch of science. · In 1808, I mndc a plan for t!ic Rfrnlics anrl organization of the Military Academy, which may Hlill· be found in the Wm J>cpar1mc11L Wlrnt !hey are not taught in the Academy, the students ca111wt be expr.cterl to bring out of it, their future practice nlo11e cnn put t.lie111 in t.lw po:<Hihilit.y of acquiring it, according to rhe special duties, they may l1c placed into, wliich is entirely a chnnr:e of circumstances. The naval schools are well known to he only for. prnci.i'cal e.ellmnnship, without sufficiently entering into higher urnnd1cs of Mntlw11in1 irs, us nre required for works similar to Ilic coast. survey. I made ulso for a Naval A'cudemy a plan in 1832, which may perhaps Le found in thut lfopnrtmcnt, it i11

7
well known that no change hus tuken place in this rcsprct, therefore nleo the Naval Qfficers are entirely innocent f!f tlte accusation lanced against

tltem.
22. When in 1834., a Burenu wns proprose<l to direct the coast survey, n meeting of one hulf hour proved tho inndequncy of it cotnpletely. 2:~. I wns in London for the insl.rnmcnls from foll 1811, lo foll 1815, under the disagreeable situation of un nlien enemy, hy the then war with Euglanc.l. 24. 'l'lw State over whose territory the coast surv1~y hus the most extend· ed, is New Jersey, therefore nbo in tliat Stntc tlie most money of the coast survey expenditure lms been diHbtuscd. 25. I arrived in the UnHetl SlaleR in October, 1805, hnt Imel been in public lrnRinei;s in Switzerland before, sincP J 786, though there engaged in the archives nnd as o. member of Comls of Justice; nlwnys, however, applying lo Muthe111atics and Natural Philosophy us subjects of predilection. In April, 1807, I entered my first appointment in this country nt West Point,. (ns eluted above.) 26. A suspension of the work of the smvey now, would bo attended with very grcnt direcl loss, as well in work us in objects on hnn<l for its continu. nnce; nn<l principally because it would most likely not be possible to bring it up nguin within more thun n man's oge, as the interval lost between 1818 und 1832, may easily len<l to conclude under existing circumstances. 27. It must be evident to any reflecting mind, thnt n scientific work chang· ing hnnds, loses the advnntugeti of the experience, and practical skill, acquired by tho operators, nncl loses the charncter of n systematic work. 28. Since the resolution of 24th June, 184.1, so much of my time has been tnken up by polemic dis..,e, pressed upon me first from Congress, which hus, of course, other disagreements in its consequence, thut uctuully more than one year of my woi·k was lost, which I would, with immensely more sntisfoction, hnve applied/to the forwarding of the interesting und val11able works which I huvo engaged for with the Government.
I

W.tsmNoToN CrTv, January 10, lB·r,_,-; .

A~

-

F. R. HASSLER.

(.·_~(l .)~' c_ i~l 1 .)

REPORT,
UI>ON THE

CONSTRUCTION OF STANDARDS
OF

WEIGHT AND MEASURE,
TO TUE

COMMITTEE OF INVESTIGATION
OF Tim

COAST SURVEY,
JUNE 29th, 1842.

7

[COl'Y.]

U.S.

HousE OF REI'RESENTATIVEs, JUN& IJ, 1842.

F. R. lIAssLER, Superintendent of Weights nnd Mcnsures. Sm,-The select Committee on the Const Survey to which was referred your Inst report on Weights nnd Measures, request you to report, forthwith, to the Commiltce, a general and concise statement of the progress of the work up to this time; showing tho time employed, the separate total expenses for assistants, for workmen, fur tho foundry, for materials, and the grand total of all the expenses, caused by the work. Also, to specify the number of standards of each description, nnil of scales thus fur made, and an npproximato estimate of the cost of each, so that the sum of the items shall equal tho totul expense. Also, a statement of the number of articles yet remaining to be made; also, the time and expense necessary to complete the whole. Also, that the Report be made in such form aB to give a concise view of the whole matter, witlwut the neceB1ity of referring to otlter reports. Your obcdt. servt., (Signed) JNO. B. AYCRIGG.

Honorable FnANCIS MALLORY, Chairman of the Committee of Investigation of the Const Survey. Sm,-With these lines, I have the honor to present to you the Report upon the works for Standards of Weight and Measure, rcr1ucsted from me, during yourabscuce, in tho name of the Committee upon the Const Survey. I hope it will bu satisfactory, notwithstanding its abridged form. Waahington City, 21Jth June, 1842, F. R. HASSLER.

REPORT,
Upon the Worlcs of the Establishment of Uniform Standards of Weigltt and Measure for the United States, made upon a call from the Select Committee of the House of Representatives, upon the Coast Survey, the 9th of June, 1842. BY F. R. HASSLER.
With the best disposition to give to the Committee, forthwith, a general and concise statement of the progress of the works, performed by me, and under my direction, in the construction of the Standards of Weight and Measure for the United States, I find it a difficult tnsk to bring, hastily, in a small compass, nnd still intelligible, the account of a work of so high an importance, ns the settlement and construction of an accurate, and appropriated, system of uniform Standards of Weight and Measure, for a country so extensive us the United Stutes, present for my task, according to my view of the duty which I have undertaken ; a work which requires the discussion, and application to practical utility, of some of the most delicate branches of natural philosophy, and the finest and most tedious operations of mechanical arts, in metal, &c., where such 11 large number of standards of the same kind are to be made, as were never before made, within the required limits of accuracy. I can, therefore, hardly expect to render such an account to full satisfaction to persons who may be new in the subject, and unacquainted with its exigencies ; every individual part of the execution of the work differs entirely from the similar works in the common transaction and execution of the every day's practice in common life ; for which, besides, every means to the nim is to be created, us was the case with this work. To approach the nearest I may be able, to an adequate statement, I must divide your letter in its different parts, nnd treat each of them as 11 separate question, to be answered in the shortest manner possible : thusA. " Showing the time employed." I. A joint resolution of both Houses of Congress, of 29th Mny, 1830, taking up agnin tho subject of the grent irregularity in the Weights and Mensures in tho country, (well averred since 1790,) from the side of its vnst inconvenience in the Custom-houses, directed the Treasury Department to cause the Custom-houses to

48 send in, to the Department, samples or Standards of their Weights, and the Measures of length, and capacity, to be compared there. 2. A short time after, the honorable Secretary of the Treasury, Samuel D. Ingham, committed this tnsk to my charge ; I devised means for its execution. These works enabled me to decide numerically, the stipulations of the law of the Senate of the United States of 1793, " that the Standards should be the mean of those found in the country." Upon these works I rendered account, under the 27th January, and 29th June, 1832. I hope I may be allowed to insert here, the expression of a learned society, certainly impartial, upon this report and the principles which guided me in this work, upon which in fact, the Standards of this country are grounded, and upon the results which I obtained by it. Extract of the Memoirs of the Royal Astronomical Society of London, vol. vi. Report of the Council of the Society of 8th February, 1833, page 232. "The Council regret that the Standard Scale, mentioned in their last report, has not been finished. It is a work that necessarily takes much time, due attention being requisite to the minutest points which are likely to affect its accuracy. Whilst on this subject, the Council cannot omit noticing a public document, laid on the table of this society at their last ordinary meeting, which contains several new and interesting comparisons of two of the principal European standards of length. This document is a comparison of Weights and Measures, made by our associate, Mr. Hassler, to the Congress of the United States of America, and has arrived very opportunely, prior to the adjustment of the present standard." As it appears not desired by the Committee, that nearer detnils of this preparatory work should be entered into, it may be sufficient to state here these ultimate numbers, viz : The Yard, to be the mean of the yard given by the scale of 82 inches, made by Troughton, for the Survey of tltc Coast, (which has by English authority been declared of the most accurate, and its similars to be selected for the English standards.) 'l'he Troy pound, of the Mint of Philadelphia, to be the Standard for the Weights ; the Avoirdupois pound, and its multiples, to be in proportion to it, as 5760 to ~ooo. The gallon = 58373,0 l . . . . . The bushel= 543391,8 ~ grams of the Mmt weight of distilled water, at the temperature of its maximum density. This principle of determination of capacity measure, at the temperature of the maximum density of the water, I communicated in

49

1796, from my teacher, Professor Trallas, in Bern, to Chevalier de Borda, in Paris ; upon which it was introduced in the French system, in lieu of the temperature of melting ice, which had been contemplated before. 3. At that time, I had just ngnin contracted with the T1·ensury Department for the work of the Const Survey ; this occasioned that the work of constructing the standards upon these data, wns ndded to my tnsk, (without any additional compensation.) 4. There were, of course, many discussions nnd other incidents, upon the mode of proceeding, procuring of the means for the execution of the work, the selection of n proper locnlity, and building, &c., which were uncontroluble, as nll such things nre, ut the beginning of any work; they, therefore, required time for their settlement, during which the whole of my works came under the Honorable Secretary of the Treasury, then Levi Woodbury, with whom these subjects were finally settled, under approbation of tho President of the United States. 5. Brass, of sufficient good qunlity, not being obtuinnble in commerce, and tho necessary ingredient in its composition, the zinc, being in commerce of bad quality, mixed with iron, it wns decided to take ndvuntnge of the blonde of Perkiomen, in Pmmsylvnnin, nnd Inter also of the ores of the upper Jersey und others, to reduce, (or distil, us it is called,) the pure zinc, for the necessary bruss, ourselves, for which a furnace was established in a shed built for the purpose, in the Arsennl. 6. In September, 1835, 0110 of the buildings now occupied for tho office of tho Const Survey, and the works for tho Weight nnd Mensure Standards, promiscuously, wns rented, nnd the turning lathe nnd the few tools, which had been prepared by one workman only, were transferred there, from the too small house in 13th street, occupied before for the comparison above stated; then, the further constructions for the ncccssnry tools for the work were begun; for it must be ohscrvcd, that special tools were required, appropriated to the works, such ns nrc not in common commerce ; cm<l this WCLnt increased with the ndvancement of the work, which required tools always more pecu!inrly adapted to the tusk to be performed. The inventory of the whole establishment shows them, us well us nil other objects belonging to the sumo, presenting n considerable amount of property. 7. In 1835, September 18th, the fu;rnucc for distilling the zinc, wns reported complete, nnd the distillation begnn. 8. In November, 1835, tho first Heport upon the nctunl beginning of the works upon Stnndurds was made; ru1d the principles of the

50 arrangement, the wants, and requisites of the establishment, discussed. 9. From thence, the delivery of actual Standards to the Treasury Department continued until to the last liquid capacity measures, in regular succession, as they were executed with. the workmen necessary at each epoch of the work, more or less according to the wants; regular reports were made upon these deliveries, which I must here omit to quote, under the positive order of the letter addressed to me. B-" Showing the progress of the work." This is evidently not intended by the letter:. to be done in detail, as the work progressed; the account of which is contained in my successive yearly reports. It is therefore best, and shortest, to present it here, in form of a table of the results in nctunl Standards, &c., which have been executed in this office, since about the beginning of 1836, when the establishment may be considered as having been ready for that kind of work, until to this time, together with some of the accessory works, which naturally accompany the same. This table follows at the end. C-" The separate total amount of expenses for assistants, for workmen, for the foundry, for materials, and the grand total of nil the expenses caused by the work." In this work, like in all other, that I ngrccd for with the government, I refused dist-inctly all the money business of it; I know nothing of the nmonnt expended, neither in the whole, nor in detail. I never touched a dollar, nor a cent, of the money expended. I can only say, ,that all that wns ordered, was calculated before hand, to the closest economy, compntible with the indispensable accuracy of the results, and its certainty ; for bad work, not answering the aim, is no economy, but money lost. This highly important measure, of establishing uniformity of Standards in Weights and Measures, has cost to this nation, in proportion to the quantity of work produced, its accuracy, nncl the extensive usefulness, far less time and money, than any other nation, ns I am well acquainted with it. It is impossible for the Committee to form any proper judgment upon the establishment without properly visiting it in detail; it has actually been visited by men of science of all civilized nations, from Russia through all Europe, to South America, &c., with the highest approbation ; all equally considering the establishment unique, and unet1uallcd in its kind ; and us actually highly creditable to the country; in which all the well informed citizens of the country rejoiced.

51
D-" Also to specify the number of Stnndnrds of ench description, and of scales thus for mudo." Tho Tubular exposition D. D., joined at tho end, shows this in all its details. E-" And an approximate estimate of tho cost of each." This is impossible in nature, ns I nm entirely ignorant of the sum expended. Upon what relates to the work itself, the question would bo to decide, what shall, in tho above quoted list, be called a standard ; what shall be allowed for tho tools and implements, made in the office ; for the wear and tear of all the tools; the value of the property on hand, paid by tho expenses, which is considerably more than might be expected ; besides the value of the Standards themselves, what they would be valued nt, &c. ; for this, tlte inventory of the establishment would have to be consulted, &c. It cannot foil to strike at once, that all this scrutiny would require more time, thnn it would be reasonable to bestow upon it, to get the most uncertain nnd rough guess at a very uncertain result. The objects produced by the establishment, are of course so different in value, amount of labor, imd nil other expenses, that a real proportional valuation is entirely out of question. For instance, a set of subdivisions of grains, in decimals, costs in London from 5 to 8 shillings sterling, of those wo made many hundreds. A balance, like that made here for weighing of the half bushels, would not be made there under 1600 dollars, notwithstanding the greater ease of workmen nnd their greater cheapness. The balances for the Stn.tes already will, and must, be superior by far in accuracy, to any made hitherto in the country, ns are those already executed for the use of the office. To give an idea of tho hahitua.l cost of such like works, which nre, however, always only copies, grounded upon no scientific principles, as accurate Standards must be, to deserve the name of Standards, I will present here some facts, which may be compared if desired. Standard copies, procured for the .government at dijferent times-, with tlteir cost. ' Lot of old standards, procured by the Ambnssndor, Richard Rush, from England, in Febmary, 1822, with ccrtiftco,te from the exchequer, enumerated in the comparison of 1832, .£103= $515. ('rhese nrc very innccurnte, in spite of the certificate.) Three scales of yards nnd ell, by Thmrnts Jones, London. (Cost not found in tho ·rreusnry nor State Department.) These standards' seem better made. (Sec their comparison.)

52 The pound weight, procured for the Mint, by Mr. Gallatin, 21st March, 1828, the artist's account only, £2, 5 = $11 25. (Captain Kater having adjusted it.) Four single pounds, procured for verification for the weight and measure establishment, cost 25 guineas = $131 25. One balance of Troughton, of grain weight, up to 10,000, £26, 5 = $131 25. (The weights of this collection, though accurate within themselves, are too small, being taken from the London Mint, which Dr. Moll of Utrect found, at the same time with me, too small. The Mint weight of London was therefore changed by act of Parliament, and the coins made before 1828 depreciated proportionally to one and a half grain in the pound.) The standard of the Virginia University, consisting of, first, a $500. balance and weights up to 5 pound troy, Second, a scale, upon which is traced a yard and metre, with two $300. microscopes, For the standards procured from France, the account of Fortin $841. shows a sum total of 4205 fruncs, (See copy of account.) These standards are very valuable. The account of Mr. Pollock, of Boston, for balances and weights, furnished to Mr. Adams for his comparisons in 1820, $642. (These are not sufficiently satisfactory.) An adjustment of a pound troy in the Mint of London, costs, according to the statement of Professor Moll of Utrecht, three guineas, - $15 75. The certificate of the exchequer, for the oldest sets of standards, is quoted upon the indenture £1, 15, and their great inaccuracy shows that they have not any proper comparison, $8 75. F. "So that the sum of the items shall equal the expense." This is evidently impossible by what has been said upon this subject before. The money spent upon such an indispensable und valuable establishment cannot be put in any comparison with the benefit which it bestows upon the society, and the daily intercourse of the citizens. The economy of a nation, or government, does not consist in not spending, but in producing good by the money spent. G. "Also a statement of the articles yet remaining to be made." This is shown by the table of results obtained in the work, which shows the unfinished work as well as what is fully finished. It presents o. small quantity of unfinished work, comparatively, with the great mass of work actually executed. It cnn only yet be rcmarlm.l npon this subjc-ct that, at the end of

53
the· mechanical work, and tho full adjustment of the standards, there should still be ndded the experiments upon the expansion of the brass employed, by bent, comparatively with other metals; the specific gravity of the snmo, and their relation to the water: as these uro scientific elements, thut are to .be ascertnined to fix the system of the standards, in its scientific relatiomi, which is so desirable for its credit nnd stability. This I had already mentioned to the Treasury Department, and I had heretofore made some experiments tending towards thut aim. It muy be yet observed that, in England, even the observations ·of the seconds pendulum were joined, to give to the work a still more extensive resting place, by the determination of the ratio between yard n.nd pendulum. H. " Also the time and expense necessary to complete the whole." It must be observed upon that, that the distribution of the work must be mude according to the nature of tho work, without regard to the individual final execution of uny single one; so that a work of u certain kind must go through all tho individuals of the standards requiring thut work ; thence, speuking of works done, or not done, falls in between tlte dij/'erent parts of the works, that are in tlte whole to be done, and determines nothing about the how many of each kind are done, or not done j the enumeration is contained in my Ireports, which I um prohibited to refer to. · As to the time, it must be observed, that for the adjustment of the capacity measure, of which the half bushels form the largest part, that by the finished constmction of the balnnce for this nim, a most essential step is. already mnde, but two fovornble winters will, it is supposed, ut least be needed to execute these adjustments, which cnn be made only under such a low temperature as is not obtainable in summer. The balances will, on the contrary, be worked at nll the time, with the full assiduity which hus nlwnys been used in all the works of this office ; therefore they will proceed to completion as fast ns possible. But it must be observed thnt nn accurate bulunce, of some size, hns u considernble number of component parts, nnd proportional work, requiring great accuracy. In respect to the estimation of expenses, it must be observed, that ull such prospective estimntions ure altogether too vngue and therefore improper, because they cause expectations, for which it is impossible to assign any reasonable ground. I. "Also that the report be mode in such form ns to give n concise view.of the whole matter without the necessity of referring to other reports." To establish .an accurate und uniform system of standards of Weight nnd Measure in any' state or country, is an unavoidable 8

and distinct duty of every civilized government, and this system requires even sometimes a rentiwal or verification. All European governments, without distinction of their kind, have in modern times made such renewals or verifications, nnd published the principles of them in their countries. This establishment is one of the means of promoting peace, and administering justice in all dealings among the citizens. The larger the country, the more essential and important the measure beco1nes; it is in general considered as indicating the civilizutio.n of the nation. General Washington, well aware of the duties of u government, which he had so essentinliy helped to establish, said in his inaugural speech, 6th.January, 1790, to the Senate of the United States: "Uniformity in currency, weights and measures, of the United States, is an object of great importance, and will, I am persuaded, be duly attended to." 'l'he answer of the Senate of the 11th January, 1790, quotes the measure as a subject that shall be duly attended to. The Sth December, 1790, General W nshington recommends this anew, and the 2d and 25th October, 1791, he said: "An uniformity in the weights and measures of the country is among the important subjects submitted to you by the constitution, and if it can be derived from a standard, at once invariable and universal, must be no less honorable to the public councils thp.n conducive to the public convenience." · A committee was established the 1st November, 1791. April 5th, 1792, a report of the committee presented a full system of weights and measures, upon the principles stated by General Washington. 17th and 18th November, 1792, the report was discussed, and also 20th November and 6th December, a full report was again presented, which was, January 29th, 1793, ordered to be printed. This last report being directed to be based upon the mean of the measures and weights found in the country. The 8th February, 17931 the decision was postponed to the next session of Congress. From thence no special action on that subject appem;s on the part of Congress ; but many State Legislatures made partial arrangements that had in general no lasting effect. However a number of laws passed, grounded upon the supposition that the uniformity existed, thereby increasing the difficulty. The report, made in conformity to the suggestions of General Washington, became well known and was much approved in· Europe. About that time I was engaged in making copies of the toises of Leland's, which had been compared in 17691 with the scale of Bird

55 in London, to determine the relation of French and English standards, on the occasion of the measurement of the Mason nnd Dixon lien in this country. One set of these toises is in the country, and · was again compared in 1817, ns is also the toise of Conivet of 1768, which I bought from the heirs of Dionis du Sejour, in which I stn11darded the toises with which the bnse-line of my triangulation in Switzerland was measured: (which was since further continued, &c. &c.) In 1817, 3d March, a resolution of the Senate referred to the Secretary of State, to present "tt statement relative to the regulations and standards for weights and measures, &c." which produced the elabornte report of the Honorable John Q. Adams, upon that subject, of '22d February, 1821, which proved forcibly the very great irregularity in measures of different parts of tho country; this occasioned, of course, a new proposition for the so desirable uniformity. For.that purpose also n set of English standards hnd been procured from London, certified by the Exchequer, 8th December, 1820, which however have proved to have very little nccuracy, when compared in 1831 and 1842, with the liquid cnpncity measures, &c. A Committee was established upon this report, which reported under the 11th March, 1822, proposing the fixation of Standards of Weights and Measures, to what would appear to hnve been the intention of those found in the country, snying, "To render uniform and stnble, tho Mensures and Weights, which we at present possess," and "Standards to be made for the Stnte Department, and for the States und Territories." New standard units were then procured from England, and from France, under this resolution, which were deposited in the State Department. But no further nction took pince upon that ; no Standards of any kind were made, or even nttempted to be made. The 19th May', 1828. The Troy Pound of the United States Mint in Philadelphia, which had been procured by Mr. Gallatin, verified directly hy Cnptuin I\nter, who hnd mncle the English Standurds, was declared by Congress, " The Stnndnrd of Weight for the United StnteR, the other Weights to be according to their legnl proportion to the same." As I was of old ncquninted with this subject, nnd could easily foresee the absolute necessity of n measure to establish uniformity of Standards in this country, I did not lose sight of it, when I was sent to London, to have instruments for the Survey of the Coast constructed, under my direction, in 1812 to 1814; I hnd need, for that work, of accurate Standards 0£ length, as well of England, as of
1

56

France; it was an nddition of expense entirely unperceptible, (and actually not observed,) to procure also some Weights and Capacity Measures. The nex:t action upon the subject, was the Resolution of the Se- , nate of the 29th May, 1830, quoted above. When on that occasion I was called by the Secretary of the Treasury, "to compare the Standards of the Custom-houses," these Standards, brought by me, formed the ground-work, and the means, of the whole establishment, which the Secretary of the Treasury was very glad to finc,1. on hand, instead of, as he had intended, yet to procure the means from England ; besides, I could direct, to be constructed in this country, by arrangements never before applied in so large a scale, but highly approved by the scientific men in Europe, and in this country equally, balances to weigh till above 130 lbs., to a proportional great accuracy. Without this circumstance, the whole establishment of the uniformity of Standards in this country would have failed again, by the delay unavoidable in procuring tho means from abroad; this is proved in comparing dates with the cotempornneous circumstances of those times. 1'he intimate connection of the two works, of the Const Survey, and the Construction of Standards, shows itself already in that circumstance; my comparisons of length measures made in Newark, New Jersey, 1817, form part equally of Mr. Adams' Report of 1821, and of mine upon the Coast Survey, and equally again in the renewed operations in 183 l.. From that time, the statement under A. renders account. The operations going on succe8sfully, a joint resolution of both Houses of Congress of 14th June, 1836, ordered: "Full sets of Standards to Le made in this office for all the States, equal to those made for the Custom-houses;" and in July, 1838, (sec Laws of the United States, vol. 9, page 839,) it was ordered : "that also Balances should be constructed for tho Sto,tes, in this office. 11 The nearer particulars are stated in the preceding articles; it mny here only be remarked, that so many Committees established during forty years before 1830, have been without nny result, towards the beneficial aim in view; while what was done since 1835, has uearly completed the tusk, which to interrupt now by any alteration wltatsoever, would be the entire destruction of the system, and therefore of the benefit which the country expects from it; the frequent calls from various parts of the country, prove fully how the more enlightened part of the nation considers these works.

57
I must. here yet place the abridged comparisons of the time, and result of such works, in different countries, so fur as they can interest in this country, that is principally of England, for which I wHI only refer, by quotation of dates, to the authentic public documents, viz: 1. The Parliamentary Report of 7th July, 1819. " Commissioners' Report, 18th September, 1820. do. do. 31st March, 1821. " Report of the Committee of Lords, 1823. Letter of the Commissioners, 14th September, 1825. ' 2. Of the Philosophical Tmnsactions of the Royal Society of Loudon, the following volumes give some account of the parts of the work of Captain Kuter, connected with the same. Jn the year 1818, page 33 contains un account of pendulum observations, preparatory to the linear Standard, us it wns first intended to accept it instead of the yard, or at least compare it with the so.me, so as to mo.kc it subservient to find tho yo.rd, in case of its loss, by. its ratio to the pendulum. In the same volume, page 103 contains the comparison of the French metre, with the different English scales. In the year 1819, page 70, Reduction of the Pendulum Observa· tions. In the same volume, page 337, Observlltions of the Pendulum nt several of the Trigonometric Stations of the British Triangulations. In the year 1.821, pngc 75, Account of the various British Standards of Linear Measure. Jn the same volume, page 316, Remeasurement of the Cube, Cylinder, and Sphere of Sir George Shuckburgh, for determining Stnndurds of Weights nnd Measures. In the year 182G, I>art 2d, page 1st, Account of the Construction of Standards of Weights and Measures for Grcnt Britain nnd Ireland. 'l'hero were made : {) ) 'l'roy pounds, . Avoirdupois pounds, 6lb. 1'roy, 4 ~ Total 24. Gallons, Bushels, Yards, 4J Only these nppenr in the account, adjusted simultaneously together, by Captain Kater. However, the following list of deliveries nppears to indicnte, that they were afterwards multiplied by the artist, Mr. Bates; of their adjustment I find no account.

~I

11

58 The Standards delivered, as stated thus in number, were to the Exchequer, 24 10 Guildhall, Dublin, 10 Edinburgh, 10 Total, 54 In the year 1830, page 359, a paper appears by Captain Kater, on the Errors of his Linear Measures. This short indication may suffice here, to guide, if detailed information should be desired, to be followed up farther, by consulting the reports and the volumes of the Philosophical Transactions. Upon the French Stamlard Establishment, we have the fullest accounts of all parts hy the several quarto volumes of the "Base du Systeme Metrique," though the mode of operating is not applicable to this conntry's standards. The different other States, Russia, Prussia, Holland, the many States of Germany and Italy, have all equalized and determined anew their system of weights and measures ; their publications are of course in the languages of these countries, and are not much spread in foreign countries. Their collection, together with copies of the standards, is one of the subjects upon which I made a special proposition in writing, at the beginning of my works, to impress the advantage of such a collection, to fix upon good principles the daily reduction of all the foreign standards, which now are practised to tho fancy of the calculators in the Custom-houses, no regular guide being given to them by authority. K.-lt is to be supposed that the committee has calculated before hand, the great and harmful delay which this detention, and what consequences the committee mny still please to give to it, must have upon my works in the Coast Survey, for which I would some time ago nave taken advantage of the season, for my works in the main triangulation in the field, which cannot be executed but in the proper season. I have, in my answers to the committee upon that work, stated the losses already arising from the attack of last year upon that work; I can only add here that if I am not soon relieved, the same loss to the work, of about one season's work, will be again incurred this year. Similar circumstances have unfortnnntely happened before to my works, which occasioned, that, instead of being able to pursue my works with that assiduity and courage, which I always should like to bestow upon them, I have been called upon to write polemic reports and answers, and distruct my attention from the scientific turn, which has the higher claim upon my attention and time, and which

59
would give to my works the advantages which belong to them. It is well known that both my works require the application of science, sometimes rather complicated, ond that no merely loose scientific application can satisfy the exigencies of these works ; on the contrary, it would introduce new uncertainties and disorder, leading to disappointment nnd disgrace. L.-Hnving executed these answers to the letter received from Mr. Aycrigg, as speedily ns the nature of the subject admitted, I have no dou ht it will be sutisfoctory in relation to the works under my charge, for the Committee which has undertaken the inquiry, as much so ns the inspection of the work has been to every visiter of the establishment, who takes any interest in the public good, which is the aim of it; however, I cannot refrain from inviting the Committee, most pressingly, not to omit a visit of the establishment in detail, when it cannot but strike, that tho compactness of its different inseparable parts, is one of the gmatest means of celerity, economy nnd accuracy, that its junction with the establishment of the Const Survey produces a mutual assistance, thenc~ an economy, for both, unobtainable by any other means, not connected under one and the same head and roof, besides the ndvo.ntnge which I had from my old acquaintance with the subjects themselves, nnd their scientific requirements. The same advantages could not be obtained by a whole society, of different opinions, and different degrees of scientific means, and informations; I might even quote ago.in as proof, the failure of nil previous attempts, towards this valuable aim, by Committee's us quoted nbove. Now the object is nearly attained, nnd any change whatsoever that might be attempted to be introduced, would destroy ago.in the whole system, make of the whole n disgraceful failure, and n direct pecuniary loss. All the particulars of the work are known, and spread over this county and Enrope, and the npprobation which my reports met o.11 over, are sure gunrentees of the public disapprobation that would follow any change or interruption.
WASIIINGTON 0ITY 1 Ju!IE

20 1 1842.

60
Received, February 13th, 1822, from the Register of the Treasury, the account of Thomas Jones, for Weights and Measures purchased by Richard Rush, for the Department of State, which account (amounting to £103,) has been pai<l by me, as Agent fur paying the contingent expcn~es of Secretary of State Office. . (Signed) FONTAINE MAURY.

Account of Mr. Fortin, for French Standards.
Fronch Frankl.

Metre a traits of Platinum, with box, Kilogram of Platinum, with box, Do. in brase, cilindricnl, . Do. do. subdivided square, Litre Modele, brass, with box, Brass Metre, subdivided, with box, Box and Baling, Custom House expenses, Charges in Havre, Shipping, Insurance, etc.,

2,600 1,100 45 100 50 85 25 . 10 190

4,205

Mr. Gallatin's account, 21st Marclt 1 1828.
Bates' account,

. £2,5
Boston, 13th January, 1820.

THE UNITED STATES,

To ALLEN For be~t Large Ba!Rnce, with Agate Suspension, Large Glass Ce.so, for do., Set best polished Large Weights, Brass bound Mahogany Case, for do., Two Thermometers, for !urge case, Best Small Do.lance, with Agate Suspension, . Glass Case, for do., Weights, for do., to one hundredth of a gruin, Boxes, for small weights, Packing Co.sea, Packing, Received above amount of Moses Young. (Signed) No. 962. Moses Young, Register Office.

PoLLocK,

Dn. $300.00 55.00 65.00 15.00 10.00 120.00 25.00 40.00 4.00 8.50 $642.50

ALLEN POLLOCK.

From other countries, nlso, weights and measures were procured, besides these, the accounts of which mny be found among the Ambassador's accounts ; the whole of the expenses incurred for them will be near nbout $4000; they arc collected, as for as yet 011 hand, in this office, where they may be seen at any time, and compared with the work produced here.

A Tabular Statement of the lVork e.xecuted for the System of Uniform Standard.s for the United States, from the beginning of the year 1836 to June, 1842, with their state at that epoch.
Full sets of Weights from llb. Troy, to 50lbs. Avoirdupois. Delivered to the Trea.sury Department for the States and the Custom Houses, in two interior boxes each, Do. do. do. do. Office, Do. do. do. do. use of the Sub-Treasury, Do. do. Patent Office, authorized by the Treasury Department, Do. do. Old Point Comfort, upon direction of Treasury Department, Kept in the Office for necessary future comparison,
Set of Ounce Weights. Delivered to the Treasury Department for the States, from TO-ho to IO ounces, Do. do. do. do. Office and the Patent Office, Do. do. do. do. Office, small box up to 10 ounces and llb., Do. do. do. do. Sub-Treasury, up to 100 ounces, Do. do. do. do. do. from 10 ounces down, and subdivided in 3 boxes, Do. do. Mint of Philadelphia, boxes from 100 ounces down, Do. do. do. unadjusted for the Branch .Mints, Do. do. do. unadjusted ounce weights up to 1000 ounces, Do. do. Office of Sub-Treasury, oae ounce set up to lib., Kept in the Otlice, my original to guide the work, Do. do. full sets for future comparison, by combined weighing, Standard Capacity .lJleamres. Just packing for delivery, standards ofliquid capacity measures, Do. do. do. gallons, besides the above, There are besides, gallons mechanically executed, ready for final adjustment, One whole bushel, to be deposited in the Treasury Department, not yet adjusted, Half bUEheli!, ready for adjustment, Each oft.he capacity measures has a gla.."S cover, to adjust its fulness,
Set. No. in Set. Pieces.

200 1 2 I 1 2 207

IO IO

2000

10 10 10 10

10 20 10 10 20

2070
27 27

29 2 1
1

783
54

12
35
25 19 5 8 25 19

12
35
40

2 2 2 4
1 1

....

~

50 38
20

8
25 95

5
50 54 71

1160

5
1

270 71

19
1

157 518
1036

Standard Long Measttres. Yards delivered, fully adjusted, each consisting of yard and matrix, Yards mecbanicallv executed, ready for the last repeated comparison, Apparatus for comjiaring yards, with micrometric microscopes, &c. Brass Balances. Large balances made for use in the office of about 40 inches distance of suspensions, Largest balances, described, for the adjustment of the half bushels, · Balance delivered to the Sub-Treasury, . Smaller ha.lances of 13 and 27 inches distance between the knife edges, Balances begun for the States, One brass balance beam, given to the Mint of Philadelphia, Single lVeights and 11Ceasures, and accessories to the Standard Weight boxu and others. Furnished to the Sub-Treasury, one box ""ith 3 lb. and 2 forks, Da. do. do. three boxes with single pound weights and forks, Do. do. Frankford Arsenal near Philadelphia., lib. avoirdupois, Kept in the Office for use in future comparisons, single pound weights, Do. do. the original adjusting weights for my use, above lib. weight, Delivered to the Committee of Massachusetts Legislature lib. troy, and lib. avoirdupois, Four sets of weights for adjusting capacity measures, FOi' the gills, which were however omitted to be made, Every box oflarge weights has two separate boxes, each having 2 forks and 4 screw holders, The ounce weight boxes have tongs and forceps of different sizes, the full sets each three, One foot measure to Frankford Arsenal, One yard, Brooklyn, New York, One yard, Lieut. Thomas R. Gedney, U.S. N., One yard, Capt. W. H. Swift, U. S. Army, One yard, Lieut. Glynn, U. S. N., One foot measure, Ltcut. Glynn, U.S. N., One yard to the Land Office,

Set.

No. in Set.

Pieces.

41 110 4 15.5

2 2

82
220

4

306
4 1 1
2

30
1

39
I 3 I

5
I

2

5 6
1

5.5
25 2

4 4
207

6

24
4

1 12
3

44

2484 132
1

1
1

1
1 1 I

2745

Boxes, with Fittings for {he above Standards. For 207 sets oflarge weight standards, 3 boxes for ea.ch set, For the sets of ounce weights, For the accessory weights given out, For the full sets of liquid capacity measures delivered, For the additional gallons delivered, For the gallons on hand, For the half bushels, For the yards delivered, and those yet in office,
Outside Packing Boxe$ of the Standards deli11ered. the large weights delivered, the ounce weights, the liquid capacity measures, the yard standards delivered, -

Set.

No. in Set

Pieces.

207

3

621 49
9

108
71

19 157 151
1185

For For For For

--~

207 29

125 41
402

CjJ

Cl>

G

0
~

v
I~

0

0

©
.

.

.

f,

'H

.

0

:rt

Fio fl.
v

H.

G

F
G

·
------------------------------

('

c

fig G.

I

I l.

·-----·-----· -·--- ------ -- -------·--·-

-----·-·--··---·-·---~·--------------···-----·-

-----··--··------r--·--------------------·--

--

:····--

·
Encl View of y. n.n..
A

...... ... -·····

-

....

....-··············-·

····· .. -····:

E111l V:it·w ol' SL ir·l'lrp
2

.

2

A

u

u

y

·

I

'

·

: ;

i:
······· 1·· ,

c
I

) )zi

I

·..·.. ! .. J

z,

I

G

J>
F

.--_ _ _ _ _ _ l ______ .---\'

I

e
""i,;i

e

J1
s
'

'

0- f
.

p
a

- .~·-.

t
.:\I..

. :.\'..

2

VIEWS

er ..Al\T a-

s

c

1'

THGR_MOMETER

I:

G
.J'-1~:

e

I I':
l ·

·

-r. '. ~· , ~ ' ,·. '. .· '.

... .·
~

)

L
lj
'

·

'

----.--:
······--··-·····-····-·'

·
ST A N DAR D G-A L I.. 0 N
OF' THE
U.ST~Tt:-5

LOW£.!'
----::..:..:-:=---~.

ff.RF\(L
SIZE

DETAILS

IN f"ULL

: i . '

i!

''

Jt

-1

·
I
I

.,

,.
-.. -·····-· ...

1

1- -

.J.·.

·OUBLE MOUNTED

REPORT
:VP02' TBI:

STANDARDS OF THE LIQUID CAPACITY MEASURES
Oi'

THE SYSTEM OF UNIFORM STANDARDS . .
'rOR

'l'Hl1 VKl'l'BD S'l' A'l'111h
WITB .l

DESCRIPTION OF A NEW ORIGINAL BAROMETEJl,"

.lll'D

OP THE DA LANCE FOR ADJUSTING THE HALF BUSHEJ,S BY THEIR WEIGH'!' . OF DISTILLED WATER.

BY F. }1. HASSLER.

WASHING TON :
QALlilS AND BEATOK, PlUNTmad.

U!4i.

~7th ·CoNGJlESS, ,

2d Session.·
:'··

Ho.

OI'

7reas. Dept.

RE:li.

STA Nl>ARDS. 6F LIQUID c APACI TY
LETTR-R
l'JIOM

MEASURESL

THE SECRETARY OF THE
Tll.lltlMlTTI1'0

TREASUBY,~

..fl rept>'rt showing the progres~ made in' the fabrication of stattdtir'rli;df

liquid capacity measures.
APRYL 8, 1842.
Referred to the Com"mittee on the Cout SurYey.

·

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, .!Jp1·i/ 7, 184_2, Srn: I have the. honor,.herewith, to transmit to you a report made to ·his' Department ·by Profes~.or .Hassler~ showing the progress m~de in th8 fabrication of standards of hqmd capacity measures. I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant, . , . . ,.

.
.Hon.
JOHN

,

Speaker of the House

wBITE,

.

.

W. FO'.RW.ARD, Secretary of the 7rea.tU·f';V·

'

of Representatives.
WAsmNoToN

'

c11·v, ..1),ril s~ i84i~·~ circumstances· have delayed for ::some time, contains the report and announcement of the· successful execution of one more of the partial tasks, executed for the general aim of introducing uniformity of weights and measures in the United' States, namely that of the construction of the sto.ndards of the liquid capacity measures. U poll the particulars of thl\.operation, the letter, or report, gives all information, · . ·1 take the liberty to request that this report should be communioated~fo both' Houses of Congresff, as the previous ones have bee·,' for wnichipurp-ose 1 join (like always) two copies. . . . But the plates it has not beeh possible, for want of time7 to· make double.' As,· however, the whole will be published, they will be.muhip,lied'by-thut .means. I mnst take the liherty to request, 'in this respect, that the plates should ·be're(urned to this office, for their being ~ithographed and· printed, :With the.
Sia: The letter herewith joined,
w~1ich

J;)oc.

~o.

:17i6.

'Jleceaary neatness and a.ccuracy, so much the rather, as the assistant here,. who has made the dra winglil 1 is in the habit, and able, to execute such works. carefully, and that it would be.done under my inspection alld direction; he being paid RY his appointment, the cost will, of course, be diminished for so-

much.·

Instead of the special short instructions which have heretofore been added to the sets of standard weights, &c.,-upon their use, and the manner of caring them, it will be necessary, in this case,,o add to the 54 full sets, containing gallons, and their subdivisions, a full copy of so much of the report as renders account of their construction, &c. ; that is, till. after the tables,_ which give their standing towards foll accuracy, (or the 4's first articles.) The·descriptive parts of the other articles, as means. of the operation for· the standards, are not needed for this destination, as they form rather a part of the general account of the whole work. · I cannot omit adding here, agairi, that it is desirable to make the Govern. ors.of the States again attentive to the propriety of their taking the necessary measures to get all the different standards ready, and now accumulating at the Treasury Office, into their intended practical utility, for the benefit oi the public. . I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, sir, yom obedient servant,
,

F. R. HASSLER.
HoQ.
WALTER FoR";ARD,

Secretary of the Treasury United States.

W .A.sHI>iGTON C1TT, March, 1842.

l ·. SIB: In fulfilment of the promise stated in my letter of 9th Decemb&r last, I can now have ·the sa.tlsfaction to inform you that 54 full sets of standard liquid· capacity measures are completed, all to the outside packing boxes, which are now making in the form of chests, which will serve afterf'or their safe keeping; upon commuuication by the Treasury Department ' to me, of the dire~tions to whom,and to which places, they shall be &.<!dressed,. they will then be immediately delivered. ,, 2. This number of full sets will be sufficient to supply each State with one of them, and to furnish about Rn equal number of the principal cnstom-

··Each set consists of five pieces, namely: One gallon. One half gallon. O,ne quart .. One pint. One half pint. .· . ~Each of these measures has a ground glass cover, to determine the limit of -its fulness, .and· they are in all respects equal to the two sets delivered, the one to your Department, and the other to the Patent Otlice, which form. part oftbe nbove number of 54· full sets. It is proper, nay necessary, that :two of these selsshall remain in.this office for reference, and possiblefntute necessary use; the rest it is desirable that they should be delivered to your '01der. '· 3. To. these full sets I am able to add still 71 single gallons, which it is intended that should be given to the other custom-houses; as it Was con-

ho'uses. · ' · ' · .

·

Doc. No.

1~ 6.

3

sider.ed the subdivisions were not absolutely needed for them; ·this will bring tl;le 'Yhole number of gallons to 125, of which~ therefore: 123 will be delivered now. . · 4, The si1ccess in the accurncy of adjustment has been above all expectation, their difference from full exactness deviating, in no case, as much aa ~ graiu of distilled water at its maximum density, a.s the table inserted heree.fter will show. / 5. This result proves, as well the accuracy of the physica.l data from which the elements are deduced, which must serve for the reduction to the point of the barometer, and the degree of temperature, which arc selected for stanqards, and also of the appropriateduess of the means of execution, which. I have selected, and the en.re taken in the execution of the work itself. 6. The principles of the adjustment of capacity measures have been deduced, and discussed, in my report upon the comparison of the weights and measures collected by the Treasury Department, which I rendered in ~an uary and June, 1832. 7. Not to repeat the details there gone through, I will here only state the principal facts, o.s far. as they relate to the individual part of the standards herewith presented, viz: · 8. The gallon selected as standard for the liquid capacity measures, is the former English wine gallon, of ~31 cubic inches in couteut, which was shown to bo intended by the mean of those in use in the country, as was directed by the law of Congress in 1796, to be the priaciple for all the establishment of standards for the United States. 9. The mechanical determination of this content by measurement, is too rough to present any thing like the accuracy demanded in the determination of standards. 10. The weight of this cubic content of distilled water, at the temperature of the maximum density of it, o.nd at 30 inches height of the barometer, is the physical principle employed in these determinations; it gives for the weight of the gallon, 58 13i3,0 grains of the troy pound of ·the United States mint, which has by Jaw been adopted as standard of weight for the Union, supposed to contain 5, 760 grains accordin.,. to ancient habit. · 11. The value of the subdivisio11s of the gallon, which, according to Qld habit, are hy successive halving, follow, of course, the same proportional value. 12. The vessels made to represent these standards, a.re of the same brass made for the whole of the standards, which is, of course: one uf the means of their uniformity; their form is a cylinder, of which the diameter is half its height, nearly. See the figure of them in plate I. 13. The manner in which these capacity measures were made, is the folh)wing: Hollow cylinders were cast of the proper capacity for each of the measures, wi1h such. a re-enforcement at the upper end, as would serve to give that part more strength, uud also more bearing to the glass cover which has to be applied upon it, to indicate the exact fulness. The bottoms wore cnst in form of a plate, in the inner rim of which the other or lower .end of the cylinder was soldered. 14. These cylinders were strongly hammered upon triblets of proper dimensions, by which nil inequalities of the castings were avoided, aud the metal made more solid, ns the case required, without going through .the long and costly process of using rolled brass, beat o.nd soldered, and iurnishiug a far superior qun.lily of metal.

. . No·.-·. l "' . 'oc. D ' ·6· :,'
15. ·This- mode of operating is the invention 'Of my son and assistant in the w-ork, Edward T. Hassler, and has been a great means'·ofacceleration and economy in the work; the mechanical part of thes_e consfr~ctions having been generally under his care. · 16. The vessels arc without any ornaments, and avoiding .all sharp corners or indentations, where water might find a rest, and escape the careful wiping which is necessary in the adjustment by weighing; . · 17; The handle is put on afterwards, separately, and· can be taken off, or put on, as it is fastened to a ring that encircles the upper part of the measure under the strengthening part of it;to which the handle is fixed on one ~ide, and' a projecting part on the opposite side; the lower part of the handle is held fast by a screw, taking hold of it from below, and passing through the exiension of the circular re-enforcement projecting below the bottoni part. These handles were never at thfil measure during the weighings, to prevent their lodging water not easy to wipe off. . - 18. The first plate presents a figure of the section through the whole gallon and the handle, which will give a full idea of all the measures. 19. The variation of the metal by temperature, as well for the relative buoyancy of the metal as of the water in air, form the elements for the reduction to the standard point. This reduction is, therefore, for all the weighings, compounded of both these influences. 20. Special tables were constructed for these circumstances, grounded Upon the physical elements <letermining them, for the variatiON. as WP-11 the barbmeter as of the thermometer, adapted to the individuality of the means, the metal and the water employed. I will place them here, together with the enumeration of the elements upon which they are grounded ; by theiv means the whole system will be prnsentcd in one view. 21. The following are the elementary numerical data for the determination Q.f the liquid capacity measures of the gallon and its .sub-di visions: A. The legal dimensions of 231 inches cubic of the gallon, presents in grains of the pound troy of the mint, taken at 5,760 grains, the weight of distilled water, which it shall contain, to be = 58373,0 grains, at the temperature of the maximum density of the water, and the barometer at 30 inches. B. The cubic inch of water at the maximum density is accepted, like in the English determinations, at 252,7453 gral'ns. . C. The cubic expansion of the brass, for 1° of Fahrenheit, according to my own experiments, is = 0,00003154 parts of the whole. D. The expansion of the brass gallon measur~, in capacity for 1° Fahrenheit, near the maximum density of the water, is= 0,0072793 cubic inches. · E. The effect, in the weight of the water at maximum density, of this expansion of the brass, for 1° Fahrenheit, is= 1,8399 grains. · F. The effect of the barometric variation upon the weighing, upon which tfle reduction to 30 inches barometer i11 to be grounded, is composed of the specific gravity of air, and of brass, to water, and presents, for l inch variation of barometer, the following fraction: rh X ~ X -,/~, according .to the data accepted for the English standard, which it was found proper to use here, bccau5e the standard of this country originated first from tha English. G, The effect of this upon the weight of the gallon gives its numerical effect= 2,0488634 grains for one inch variation of the barometer; the tables for smaller variations, and for the subdivisions of the gallon, are too simplo

of

Doc. No;, ~76.
deductions to deserve insertion here, as they present .only proportional{~ tions, of \his number. . . .JI, rhe effect of the variation of temper!lttire ~be,ing compounded: oC two, the one in arithmetical ratio for the brass, ,the other in an increasing ratio ·(explained above-) for the water; the table f'ortbese reductions of the gallon is here inserted, for the. temperatures near the two minima of this effect ; remarking only, that the weighings were never made to so great ao e~te11t · of variation of temperature as the tuble reaches ..
22. Table. of reduclfons,for the weighing of the gallon to Lhe temperature

ofrna;rimum density oft he water,for a hm.ss gallon,to its ahsolutevaliu.
Dearee ' Fahrenheit. Reduction in
g111in~.

32,0 33,8. 35,6 37,4 39,2 41,0 42,8 44,6 46,4 48,2 50,0 51,8 53,G 55,4 57,2 59,0

+ 19,7142 + 13,4068 + S,0361
3,5811 0,02115 2,6642 4,502:1 5,4785 \..- 5,7i03
5,0486

For the,~ or i, &c., gallons, the effect is of course also ~ or ~> &c.

+

+ +

+ +

3,6584 1,5037 1,3929 5,0141 9,3418 14,3605

23. This necessary limitation in the tempcr,ature, without which the proper accnracyr w01ild be unnttainable, ii,: the cause why these adjustments 'can be made only in the winter 01onths, when this temperature is obtainable .at least for a certnin number of hours in the morning; the afternoon hours being employed for the calcnlation of tti'e reduction of these weighings, and the adjustment of the measur~s themselves. , .24. It will be observed by these tables, that toe brass has a particular advantage in these adjustments,,namely: while be\ow the maximum density of the water, or about 39,2° FaJuenheit, it continues to contract, while the water expands ; from thence to the neighborhood of 52° Fahrenheit, both brass and water expanding,, the Nduction changes sigri from+ to,-, and passes a maximum at about 45°, froru which .the two expansions approach again to each qth1~r j there the reduction decreMeS again Unti\ to a.bout 52° .Fahrenheit they are again cqu~l, thence the reduction becomes~ o again, after which the increase oflhe expansion of the water goes on rapidly, while ~hat of the pietal i11crc~Sf'$ only in arithmetical proportion. 'l'hua, at the two limits of this change of o.bi;>:ut 39.2°, and at about 52° Fahr.enheit,

l>dc.

No. 116:-

there are two points o( terriperaiure equally favorable for the adjnst.ment, where namely the variation of the effect of temperature is at its minimum. 25~ It is evident that the temperature of .52° is most favorable for the work, and affords a relief in th'e operation; between the !WO tcmiperatures, 39° and 52° the redtietion · never amounts to so much for the about 6! 0 of variation, as it does after a few degrees of deviation from them, either above or below the two points ·of minimum variation, or rather of the O of Yariation, for one single degree. 26. By thus organizing the works of such a nature in the practical ap· plication of natural philosophy, the greatest accuracy is obtained, which is entirely un6btainable if a point of temperature is selected, where the varfa. tions are large, and in the same direction. I have therefore no doubt of this arrangement having been one of the main l!auses of Jhe extreme ac_cu· racy which has been obtained in the present operation, which exceeds all that I have ever founu in any similar operation. 27. This mode of proceeding will therefore be so much more approved by the men of science, who have been practically engaged in such works, nnd are acquainted with the difficulties which these operations h·ave; while on another hand it adds more stability to the system itself, bi;>sides that the operation itself is very much easied, and therefore accelerated. 28. The tahles of the ultimate results, inserted hereafter, present both the last comparisons, under the temperature by which they were made, and the ultimate results correspcmding, when reduced to the temperuturc o'f the maximum density of the water, which administers the fullest proof of their accuracy. 29. Weights were made of the same bra~s employed for all the standards, exactly equal to what the calculations exposed in my report of 1832, indicated for each of the capa«!ity measures; these were used for all equally in the whole operation,, Also, in all the weighings, brass was used of the very same proportion of copper and zinc as the standard weights, the length measures, and the capacity measures, were made of; thence all compcnsa· tion for difference of metal was made by the very organization of the ope· ration, which otherwise would necessitate very complicated reductions, thereby lengthening the work, and, by the increase of the difficulties en· dangering the accuracy. 30. By thus compensating practically the many acccssary influences, which pretend to take share in these delicate operations of natural philosophy, many corrections, and even the reduction to the vacunm, were avoided; thence also, all those possible errors that might arise from insufficiency of the elements which guide these reductions, ·and complicate so much the operations, were avoided. . . . 31. k special distillery was established to obtain the distilled water em· ployed, always pure and 'new, which is w_ell known to be the essential qua!-· ity required; the water employed every day in weighing was never over twenty-four hours old. · 32. No more than one-third of the· Water can be distilled over, to be taken 'for use, to obtain it pure; the two-thirds remaining become useless for this purpose, and the greatest cleanliness is required in the whole 'ope· ration, to avoid 'all extraneous matter in the water employed for that purpose~

.

.

.

.

.

It may be observed here again in passing, that all weights whatsoever, made in this office, are full; not any hollow parts, nor addition of other metal is allowed, to complete or adjust any weight.
· ·s3,

Doc. No. 176~

7

S4. In the weighing operation itself, the capacity measure being plac'ed in one basin of the balance, with its glass cover upon, the weight· which. represents the quantity of distilled water of the measure ti:> be weighed,·is placed upon the glass, and the whole is counterbalanced> in tl'ie other 'basin, with brass weights of the same metal as the measure, and the weight in the other basin, so that all the buoyancy of the brass is exactly balanced, which is as well, for accuracy and uniformity, as if all was reduced to the vacuum. , 35. The temperature of the measure is ascertained, and that of the water also ; then the standard weight is removed, and the measure is filled with the water carefully, so as to occasion the least possible air bubbles; then the temperature of the water is tried again and recorded, when that of the measure is generally found equal with it ; the few air bubbles that may be unavoidable, arc carefully wiped o.ff, by means of a thin whale bone, with a small rag at the end. The glass cover is again slided oTer the vessel; and, when near its end for covering, tho superfluous· water is suclced out by a syringe; the gla!ls fully slided over leaves very little, if anv, of the' water to be wiped off around the glass cover. · ' 36. Thns the standard measure is ready for weighing by tho counterpoises that have been placed in the opposite basin of the balance, and the smaller complementary weights that have been needed, the enumeration of these smaller weights is then made and registered; when the measure is removed the temperature is again observed and recorded ; if any difference is found from tho first observed temperature, a mean between the two is taken, which was, however, seldom of any amount. 37. Thus was proceeded with every one of the three hundred nnd forty<me brass vases, here rendered account of, as the standard liquid capacity measures; and there are a i1umber of gallons still under adjustment. 38. This task is the most fatiguing and trying for all faculties of a. man in attention and care; it has been executed with the same minute, faithful care and accnrncy, ns I have described in rendering account of the weights, and the result has rewarded the exertions by its extreme ac<:uracy. 39. It must be evident thnt these measures cannot be brought to their required accuracy at once; the operation is therefore a successive approaclt to the truth. The measures nre worked out sufficiently large to admit in any case reducing them down, by successive steps, to their proper capaCity, their state being successively ascertained, each time, by the weighing. 40. The quantity of reduction in the height, which will correspond to a "certain overplus of content of tho, one or tho other kind of measure, i's aseertained at first approximately, by pouring the water ,of one measure, nearly adjusted, in the new vessel, the scale of this reduction is easily deduced from the content of the whole by measurement, compared with its weight. A particular tool has been made to trace within the measure that ~ircle at eqnal distance from the top, which is considered nearest, but still rather above, the dimension 1·equirr.d. . · 41. Then the measure is brought upon a plate of lead, in the inverted position ; upon this it is worked in a kind of epicycloidic revolving motion, with emery upon the plate, by which means the cylindric edge is ground ·down to tho mark made by the guide of the preceding trial, always in an ·exact perpendicular position.

8

l)oq. Np. 1761

. 42. Thus· ll.lterna~ly w.eighing and g~.nding do}Vn, 'he me~su~ is: cops_id~red within ,the· li,ni.it, whfoh it i~ found sufficient to .allow to aJ?ide by, and only to regii;ter dw µlrimate res11Jt; it is these last weighings, and .their result, .which arafo.imd in the taple h~reunto joined; . ;43. These weighings are of course always made under the existing temper.ature of the time of weighing, which forms the first column of the ta pie,. after the number with which each &et is marked; the third column ~Ol,l,e.ips t}le dift'erence found at that temperature ; and the fourth column is the ij.pal i:esult therefrom arising, for the individual measure, at .the temperature of ~he miiximum density of the wuter, under the direction given by the tabl& presente.d in section 22 ,; this forms of course the ultimate reduction. 44. It is upon these grounds that I may b~ fl.llowed to claim, that the· d~.ter~ina~ion of standards, made in this office, will stand tbe test offUtll,l'e· tim~s more than could have been expected otherwise. · ~5. ·1 am, '1owever, unable at this moment, nor is it proper in this ~pe ~ial report, to e:Kpose the whole philosophical Rystem, it» elements and consequences; this belongs more particularly to an ultimate final report :upon. the whole of the establishment for the uniformity of standards for so ext.e~iv:e a .union of country as the United States; the results of which prnst,. by .thei.r nature, extend to ages, and of which I understood so well the hig~ ~mn<;>rtance, in accepting the trust of their execution, at the very beginning. ~6. I might yet quote here the result of the reweighing of the English an~ French standards of liquid capacity measures, which has so strikingly shown the accuracy of the comparison which I have made formerly for theobj~ot of my report of 1832, and published therein ; but, as this investigation ,and comparison will be carried on upo1i the larger scale of embl'acing also the comparison of the weights, &c., it is much more proper to deferthis subject to the final report upon the whole work. 117.. But as it may be of interest and importance to make known some of tb,e means employed, the utility of which may extend further to other usefula.pplications, I take the liberty to join here: 1st. The description of the thermometers, constructed purposely for deter. mir:J.ing the temperature with more accuracy, than the thermometers habitused give, as it .is so essential an assistance in this case . . .2d. The descrip.tion of the kind of barometer of my invention, and of my own constructio.n, which was employed in this work, as well as for all asfronon;iical o.bservations 1 &c., in the coast survey works. · iJd. ~·p.e descriptjon of the balance, coQ.structed in this office, for the next o.peration of the standard establishment, namely: the adjustment .of .the b.~P.els an$! half bu11hels, which, with a weight of a):>out 130 pounds, to lpO p~unds in eacP, basin, will present a sensib_ility of one-te~th of a grain-an. ~ccuracy ~hich I uar.e assert has never heretofore been obtained1 '-lld withqµt .w~ich l shou14 consider thi;i results of my works degraded.

brpugbt -every time nearer to tJie truth, 1n1til it .is

v.ally

Hon~ WALTER Foaw Ann,

F. R. HASSLER.
·

·

$ecretary of tM Treasury.

48. Ttlbles of the lasJ. weiglfings, (lrJ.rl ultimate· reaull~ of adj11stment, of the full sets of capacity measures for liquids.
I.
Laat waighing.
THE GALLONS OP THE FU:r.L SETS.

'

Final rc1ult.

Last weighing.

Final re1uh.

No. Degree F.

Grnin.

Grain and ilccimal

No. DcgrccF.

Grain.

Grain and dacirnal

-

. l

.2 3 4 5 .6 7

8
9 10 11 12 13

14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 .23 24 25

-51,0 45,7 46,2 46,8 47,2 li3,8 53,l 53,0 54,7 53,8 52,6 53,3 53,3 50,2 51,5 51,5 51,8 52,S 53,0 52,l
52,~

-2,5 -5,7 - 5,8
-~,65

+ 0,0214 .+ 0,0848
+ 0,0236 + 0,0887 + 0,0592 -0,1659 -0,1867 -0,0117 - 0,1415 - 0,1659 -0,08.26 -0,4470' - O,S470 + 0,0520 + Q,0';69 0,0769 0,0037 -0,0471 + 0,0383 -0,1249 -0,0677 + 0,0248 0,1525 0,0711 + 0,0180 + 0,0248 -0,0252

-- - - 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54

.
-0,6 -0,.l +o,os +o,5 +o,s1 +o,5 1,0 + 1,0 -2,6 -3,93 -2,7 -3,1 -3,2 -3,9 ---2,7 -2,97

-5,5 1,6 0,55 +o,5 +3,5 + 1,6 -0,4 +o,6 +0,1 -- 3,4 -1,8

+ +

.52,4
51,6

26
27

52,5 5.2,0 52,4 52,4

-1,S -1,5 + 0,05 +o,55 -1,2 -1,0 -0,6 -1,G -0,4 -1,2 -0,6 -0,65

+ +
+ +

52i4 52,7 52,8 53,0 53,2 53;0 53,2 53;2 50,8. 49,5 50,8 50,5 50,5 49,5 50,8 50,6 49,9. 54,l 53,7 53,8 53,8 53,8 60,9 50,3 50;2 50,3 51,4

+ 0,0~48
+ 0>0101 -0,0471 -0,0111 -0,0917
-0,0~17

-

+

-3,8
+2>3 + 1,7 + 1,9 + 1,93 + l,65

+ 0,0928 + O,OS24 -0,067G· + 0,1772 ·+ 0,092S + 0,0492 -0,0621 -0,0944 -0,120&· + 0,1341 + 0,!1641
~O,ll.59·

+ 0,0383 + 0,192& + O,l<t72

+ 0,0383

-2,6
-3,25

+ 0,0571 +

-3>3
-3,25 -2,0

+ 0,0988 0,1520 0,0988

+ + 0,001~

10

Doc. No. 176.
La8t weighings and ultimate results.
2. HALF GALLONS.

Lut weighing.

Final result. Grain and dccim~l.

Lut weighing.

Final result.

No. Degree

F.1

Grain.

No. Degree F.\ Grain. Grain and decimal.

l '2 :3 .4

:.s
:s

.<J ·7
"9 10 11 12 13 14

15
16 i7 18

19
'20
~l

'22 23
·~H

25 26 27

48,6 -2,4 47,4 -2,65 53,S +o,8 50,0 -1,85 54,3 + 1,3 52,6 -0,2 54,0 + 1,1 53,0 +0,15 53,6 ·+0,01 53,9 +0,08 53,3 +0,03 50,S -1,5 53,9 + 0,9 51,2 -1,15 54,0 + 1,03 50,0 -1,85 50,l -1,8 54,0 + 1,1 50,6 -1,4 51,1 -1,15 51,9 -0,07 52,2 -0,43 51,l -1,12 50,4 -1,53 48,2 -2,55 49,0 -2,2 49,1 -2,27

+ 0,0036 + 0,0723 -0,0829 -0,0208 -0,0626 -0,0413 +0,0305 -0,1058 + 0,0036 -0,17fi2 -0,2235 -0,1036 -0,0762 -0,0250 -0,0369 -0,0208 -0,0224 + 0,0305 + 0,1096 0,0028 -0,0196 + 0,0361 -0,0072 + 0,0928 -0,02.57 + 0,0629 -0,0522

28 29 30 31 32 i I 33 I 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 I 42 1 43 144 45 46 47 I 48 ' 49 I 50 51 52 53 54

49,l 49,l 49,5 49,7

so,.'>
52,8 46,6 46,8 52,8 52,8
5~,8

-2,25 -2,2 -1,87 -2,05 -1,6 -0,05 -2,8 -2,8 -0,05

o,oo

+

I

52,4 47,6 '48,2 52,5 52,9 50,8 53,8 52,6 52,6

52,5 52,4 46,6 52,5 52,6 47,0 45,0

o,oo -0,3 -2,7 -2,5 -0,17 +o,o5 -1,4 +o,77 -0,2 -0,17 - 0,2 -0,3 -2,9 -0,2 -0,2 -2,8 -2,8

-0,032!: + 0,0178 + o,1686 -0,1078 -0,0338 -0,0987 + 0,0536 0,0693 -0,0987 -0,0485 -0,0485 0,0124 -0,0326 + 0,0243 + 0,0655 -0,1022 -0,0036 -0,1129 -0,0413 - 0,0113 0,0355 + 0,0124 -0,0464 0,0955 -0,0413 0,0379 -0,0155

+

+

+

+ +

Doc.

·Nb. ·176.

ll

Laat weighings and ultimate results. ·
3. QUARTS.
·11aat wei1?bing. ' Final reault.
-----~----

Last weighing.

J-'inal reault.

No. Degr11eF.

Grain.

Grain o.nd decimal.

No. Dogrre F.

Grain.

Grain and d~cinial.

-.1 ...2 .. ~·. '.-4 I

-47,4 56,8 56,4 48,6 53,7 54,5 52·,3 52,0 51,7 52,0 52,2
52,2

5 ti

7
8

9
10
11
12

lS
14 15 76 1.,.

56,6 53,5 51,7
51,S

18
19 :20
!l

'1!2

23
'·24 ·25 '26 "27'· .

'51,8 51,8 51,7 52,0 52,l 51;7 52,2 51,7 51,9 51,9 53,4
..

-1,3 + 1,98 + 1,78 -1,17 +o,37 + 0,73 -0,l -0,25 -0,4 -0,3 -0,15 -0,2 + 1,93 +0,2 -0,35 -0,33 -0,32 -0,33 -0,33 -0,32 ·-o,3 -0,35 -0,2 -0,38 ...;_ 0,3 -0,37 +0,25

+ 0,0611 -0,1097 -0,1026 + 0,0318 -0,0248 --0,0602 + 0,0946 + 0,0545 + 0,0072 + 0,0045 + 0,0830 + 0,0330 -0,0561 -0,1156 + 0,0572 + 0,0459 + 0,055!) + 0,0459 + 0,0772 + 0,0155 -0,0311 + 0,0572 + 0,0330 . + 0,0272 0,0402 -0,0298 - 0,0330

28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41
42

53,1 53,0 53,0 53,0 53,2 .52,6 52,5 52,4
52,4

52,5 52,6 52,2 52,4 52,6 46,8
48,8

+

43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 5·1 52 53 54

52,9 53,8 53,7 52,8 51,7 52,3 50,2 49,4 50,0 50,0 50,2

+0,1 + 1,12 + 1,13 + 0,1 +0,11 -0,l -0,1 -0,17 -0,17 -0,15 -0,1 -0,2 -0,15 -0,07 -1,4 -1,17 +0,03 +0,1 +o,37

o,oo

-0,4 -0,15 -0,87 -0,97 -0,85 -0,9
~0,85

-0,0841 -0,0079 + 0,0021 -0,0279 -0,0701 -0,0201 -0,0177 -0,0138 -0,0138 -0,0123 -O,m!07 + 0,0330 + 0,0062 o,0·09s + 0,0346 -O,OOS4 -0,0461 -0,0414 -0,0248 0,0000 +0,0072 0,0446 -0,0070 0,0713 0,0646 0,0146 0,0130

+

+ + + + +

;aoc. No. 176.
L'asl weighirws. and
ul~in'f,ute

re114/t.r.

4. PntTs.
Lu1 weighing. Fine.I re,ult.
Last weighing.

Final result.

No. DegreeF.

Gru.in.

Grain anol decimal.

No.

DegrceF.

Grain.

Giain amldeci1J1JI ..

l ,.2

,4

s
5
6

7
B
9

10 11

12
.13

14 15 1,6 17 18 19 20
,21

53,6 52,4 52,2 53,0 52,0 51,6 51,8 51,5 52,l 51,7 51,2 52,S 63,3 54,0 53,5 53,2 53,3 53,0
53,l

Z2 113 24

[l5
~6

27

53,5 53,l 52,S 52,9 52,5 53,2 53,4 53,5

-0,15 -0,<'241 -0,12 -0,0319 -0,15 - o,0335 0,05 -0,0139 -0,1.li + 0,0022 -0,2 + 0,0115 -0,17 0,0179 -0,25 -0,0154 -0,1 + 0,0343 -0,17 + 0,0336 -0,25 + 0,0312 -0,07 -0,0821 +0,07 -0,0608 + 0,23 -0,0373 + 0,0422 +0,2 0,0000 +o,u -0,0308 + 0.,1 0,07 + 0,0061 +0,01 -0,0220 +0,13 -0,0278 +0,07 -0,0220 -0,05 -0,0628 +0,03 ·-0,0080 -0,0412 -0,1 -0,0200 +0,1 +0,15 + 0,0085 +0,17 + 0,0122

+

+ 0,0.122 -0,0207 + 0,0259 -0,0139 0,0026 0,0011 + 0,0251 + 0,0251 -0,0630 + 0,0376 + 0,0.348 -0,0152' + 0,0376 - 0,0676 -0,00,88 -0,0700 -0,0080 -0,0380 -0,0304 -0,0304 -O,OJ04 -0,0041 + 0,0181 + O,Q637 0,0320 -0,0220 + 0,03.2<>

+

+

+

28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54

53,5 +0,11 53,8 +0,2 53,6 +0,2 53,0 + 0,05 53,7 +0,2 56,7 1102 56,8 1,07 56,8 + 1,07 56,6 +o,93 55,0 +o,57 54,8 +o,s2 54,8 +o,47 55,0 -+o,57 55,0 +0,06 54,9 +o,5 53,2 +o,o5 52,9 +0,03 52,9 o,oo 52,6 - 0,07 52,6 -0,07 52,6 -0,05 53,6 +0,11 49,7 -0,47 52,7 +o,os 52,9 +0,01 53,1 ·+ 0,07 !12,9 + 0,07

+ +

+

+

+

i3
Last weigliings and ultimate .rmslts. ·
. 5.
Lut welgbiDg. No. Degree}'.

HALF PINTS.

Final reaulL Grain and decimal.

I

Laat "eigbi11g.
Degree F. Grain.

Fi11al r8'ult. Grain and decimal.

Grai11.

1
~

3
4 ..5 6

7
8 9 10 11
12

13
14
15 16 17 18 19, 20 21 22
~3

52,8 49,5 49,5 49,5 49,8 liO,O 50,4 50,6 50,8 51,0 51,8 .52,3 53,0
5a,s 56,S

-0,03 -0,3 -0,25 -0,27 -0,27 -0,22 -0,15 -0,17 -0,15 -0,17 -0,10 -0,10 +0,03

+o,s5

24 25 !Z6

27

56,7 56,7 56,6 56,6 56,7 56,5 56,4 56,4 52,2 52,4 51,0 51,0

+ 0,57 + 0,55 +o,s +o,45 +o,43 +o,4 +o,4 +o,4 + 0,45 o,oo -0,05 -0,13 -0,2

-0,0361 -0,0452 + 0,0048 -0,0252 -0,0322 + O,OOS6 + 0,0520 + 0,0187 + 0,0245 -0,0125 -0,0061 -0,05H -0,0019 + 0,0276 + 0,0476 + 0,0406 -0,0094 -0,0465 -0,0665 -0,1094 -0,0836 -0,0706 -0,0206 0,0852 - 0,0110 + 0,0275 -,0,0425

-

No.

2S 29 30 31 32
33

34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44

45

46 47 48 49
50

+

51 52 53 54

50,5 51,2 51,2 51,7 51,5 51,5 51,6 51,7 52,2 53,0 52,7 52,3 52,I 52,5 52,5 52,6 52,6 52,7 52,7 52,8 53,2 53,0 ·49,8 53,3 53,2 53,0 53,6

-0,2 -0,15 -0,17 -0,07 -0,15 :__ 0,15 -0,l -0,05 o,oo + 0,07
-O,O!J '

-0,07 -o,os· -0,03 -0,05 o,oo o,oo -0,03 -0,05 o,oo +0,05 o,oo -0,2 +0,1 +0,07 +0,03 0,1

+

-0,0043 -0,0099 + 0,0045 +0,0318 -0,0327 -0,0327 +0,0057 + 0,0518 + 0,0582 + o,03s1 -0,0431 - 0,0214 + 0,0971 -0,0006 -0,0206 + 0,0198 + 0,0198 -0,0231 - 0,0431 .:__ 0,0060 -0,0100 -0,03l'P 0,0378 + 0,0346 +0,0100 _0,0019 _o,0130

+

14
49.

Do~.

No. 17G.

Last weigMnga

an~

ultimate results of the #ngle gallona.
Lut weighing. DegreeF. Grain. Final rnult. Grain and decimal.

Lu.It weighing. No. Degree F. Grain.

Final re1ult. Grain and decinial. No.'

-

55 56

51 58 59 60
61 62 63 64 65

66
67 68 (i9 70 71 72 73 74 75 76

77
78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90

51,4 51,5 52,2 51,1 51,6 50,Ci 51,0 51,4 51,1. 52,9 .52,4 50,6 .50,5 50,6 54,8 50,5 51,4 50,5 50,4 51,4 51,4 5.1,5 51,5 51,6 54,8 52,4 51,8 51,7 51,6 55,1 51,6 55,3 51,6 50,9 51,6 51,5

-2,0 -1,8 -0,93 -2,35 -1,8 -3,0

-2,53
-2,l -2,37 + 0,3 -O,G5 -3,0 -3,0 -3,0 + 3,9 ·-3,l -2,07 -3,0 -3,25 -2,0 -1,93 -1,9 -1,9 -1,8 +3,8 -0,6 -1,4 -1,7 -1,6 +4,2 -1,7 +4,6 -1,8 -2,8 -1,7 -1,9

+ 0,0012 + o,0769 + 0,0023 + 0,0357 -0,0475 + 0,0192 -0,008G -0,0988 + 0,0157 -0,0044 -0,0252 + 0,0192 + 0,1324 + 0,0192 -0,0182 + 0,0324 -0,0688 + 0,1324 -0,0044 + 0,0012 + 0,0612 -0,0231 -0,0231 _ 0,0475 _0,0818 + 0,0~48 + 0,1037 _0,0713 + 0,1525 _ 0,2479 + 0,052.5 _0,2253 - 0,0475 - 0,1429 + 0,0525 - 0,023.l

91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 101
102

103 104 105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116 117 118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125

51,5 -2,o 52,0 -1,2 51,13 -1,6 52,5 -0,4 51,6 -1,7 51,6 -1,7 54,0 +z,1 52,0 -1,2 52,0 -1,2 51,7 -1,7 53,9 + 2,0 .52,2 -1,0 53,9 + 1,9 52,0 -1,3 53,1 +0,7 53,2 52,2 -1,0 50,8 -2,7 52,3 -0,9 54,7 + 3,6 52,0 -l,2 52,9 + 0,25 52,4 -0,6 52,0 -1,1 52,6 -0,3 53,0 +0,5 54,6 + 3,4 52,0 -1,2 52,4 _o,a 52,4 _o,a 54,5 + 3,1 52,7 -0,2 55,9 + 6,1 56,l ·+ 6,8 52,4 _ o,a

+o,g

- 0,1231 + 0,018~ -0,0963 + 0,0111 + 0,0025 + 0,0525-0,0390 + 0,0180 + 0,0180 -0,0713 + 0,0476· -0,0677 -0,0524 -0,0$19-0,0!167 - 0,0~l 7 - 0,0677' + 0,0928 -0,1214 -O;D415 + 0,0180 - 0 0544 + 0:0~48: + 0,1180· + 0,0174 - 0,0117' -0,0013 + 0,0180 + 0,0248 + 0{0248. -0,0610 -0,0899- 0,1521 + 0,0864 + o,021s

Dec. No. 176.
50. De.rcripti<>n

of the .thermometer.

The whole thermometer is 14 inches long; instead of a bulb, it has a; cylinder of 3.1 inches in length, and of an i.nch diameter, in order that it may take in contact water at different depths in the vessel. It has at the· bottom two projecting parts, elevating it away from the bottom, as wel~ because it would otherwise indicate the temperature of this bottom, rather than thnt of the water, n.s in order to approach the nearest to the mea~ of the temperature of the mass of the water, by being placed near the middle of the depth. The scale reaches from 32° Fahrenheit to 62° Fahrenheit,. ·and has 8,1 inches length ; thence, each degree is 0,27 of an inch, and is divided in halves, which admits e\'idently very accurate reading.

s

51. Description nf a new form of a trm1sp01·tahle original barometer,,

and the method of corcstruciing, and using, the same.-(See plate I.) . 1. The principle UflOll which the barometer is grounded, is the 'l'orricellian experiment. The more perfect, and the most free from all accessory influences, the experimeut can be made, the more perfect the barometer will be. 2. The condition of transportability, added to tho requisite of the cxperime1t, constitutes the barometer in use fol' travelling, &c.: also called mctuntain barometer. 'l'his trausportability is aimed nt in a variety of ways, of which none is free from objections upon the principles of natural philosophy. Thence arises the great variety of forms which tho barometers are sub. ject to, and the bad habit of establishing or regulating the most barometers by comparison, taking certain individuals us staudards, by which to regu 7 late others; for instauce, all the barometers made in the same instrument. maker's shop, .the same observ_atory barometer, or such like. 3. An inducement to do so arises also from the circumstance: that is often desired to relieve the obseHer from ull reJlectiOll upon his Work, ·not t<> trouble him with actually making the experiment, which a barometric observation should in fact be, and laying most value upon avoiding the in. conveniences which barometers may be subject to in trnvelling. Certainly many observers have felt both the disagreeableness of unsatisfactory results, and the individual inco11ve11iences,of all the habitual constructions of . transportable, or mountain,.barometers. 4. In the construction w,hich I devised, my aim was, the undq_ubled ac. curacy of the instrument, the safety of transportation, and the easing of making lite actual experiment. · 5. As this appeared to me to constitute the principal difference between nn uncertain observation and a real dctemiination of the pressure of the !nosphere, which it is intcuded to represent, by the counterpoise of the .mercury column in the barometer, I considered it was well worth to sacrifice for it some of the mere mechanical conveniences of the habitual constructions, and to suppose, as in fact it shQu)d be allowed to do, that th~ observer will be willing to acquire some habits of care and dexterity in manipulation. 6. The barometer of my construction consists of two principal parts, separated for transportation; first, the tube filled with mercury, and second the scale, to measure the height of the column of mercury, when put in equilibrium with the atmosphere. 7. The scnlc to measure the actual column ofmercnry, is placed at the side of the tube, with proper means to adjust the bcginuing of its counting

a'-

. tG

))()c. ·N'o.

H'6 .

to the surface of the mercury in the basin, as such must of cour·e be the beginning point of its measure ... 8. An arrangement, marking the top of the mercury column; and referring it to. the scale, with verniers for easier reading, is connecting th~se two parts. . 9. By separating the 'parts in the travelling, and easing the means of uniting them for observation, the actual experiment can be made in such a manner, that security, and accuracy are obtained in a much higher degree than habitual. To obtain this, I esteemed of no consideration the trouble and care in putting up for observation the barometer of ,my form, because it is welt repaid by the result. 10. The two main parts are suspended parallel to each other, from a plate ofl.Jrass, fastened to a stand, or any arra11gemcnt as may be easily contrived in the field, ,when necessary. (See the figures of which the detail parts .are in natural size, the main figure in-!, &c., plate I.) · · 11. The barometer tube is entirely in view, free, without any longitudinal mounting, and unobstructed when under observation, as seen by the lightly shaded column C, C. The tube is held at the upper end by a brass ferule,/ J, lightly pressed by the screw, P ; the ring at the top of the ferule is hung on a hook attachE'd to the screw, D, which passes through the plate, C, C,and-i~ raised or lowered by the finger screw above the plate; in order that it may not turn in the vertical movement, the screw beam is filed flat .at two opposite sides, and the hole in the plate, B, is adapted to that shape. An aperture in the side of the ferule f admits a view of the uppermost pari <>f the tube, to· ascertain its state of purity, or the close fit of the mercury and glass, which becomes apparent by inclining the tube. 12. By this ferule and hook the tube is suspende>d freely from the plate, ~, e, so as to hang perpendicularly by its own weight, the lower end being immersed in a basin filled with mercury, and reaching nearly to the bottom ()fit, the basin standing in a plate to receive accidental spillings of the mercury. 13. At the lower or open end of the barometer tube, which has two parts, .g g, projecting like legs, with slits to receive a wedge, a steel plate, K, with. a leather cushion, fitting to tlie opening of the barometer tube, is applied, when the tube is turned the open end upwards, for the purpose of shutting up the full tube for transportation; the cushion is fastened to its position by 1he wedge passing over it, pressing the cushion somewhat in the opening of the tube, to shut close ; a piece of thin buckskin could yet be added between the tube and the cushion, when this becomes hard by use. 14. In transpor,tation, the tube is carried with this lower end upwards, and well shut by the wedge, (this is, of course, as much as carrying a glass full of water covered, and the open part upwards.) '.fhree such tubes can be easity fitted, as I did, in a block of wood, having longitudinal grooves cn.r,ved out to fit them, and lined with woollen blanket stuff, the whole block being surrounded by the same stuff, and a sheet-tin tube made to fit over the whole. · 15. Parallel to the mercury tube hangs from the same plate, e e, the steel rod, h h~ which is moved vertically by a screw, similar to that for the tube, only, if necessary, sufficient! y elevated over it by a ferule to prevent the two :finger screws to interfere. · . 16. This r<?d plunges below in the basin of mercury, where it bears two ma.rks, one for the beginning;of the scale, or the null of the counting, which

Doc. No. 176.

17

is to coincide with the surface of t\:e mercury 'in the basin ; the other is· half an inch apove it, so as to correspon~ with the top of the s\vimmer, i, of half an inch 'height, which moves freely around tlie steel bar. The :;wimmer is a light tube witli a fiat and broader circular basf', it is made of ivory, and so very light as to cause no impression in the surface of the mercury. A light file-stroke matk around the rod must be mad~ to coincide with the top of thi:s swimmer, by the screw of the bar above, to place it so as to give proper r~ading in obsorvation, the coincidence of the surface of the mercury its(:lf never being observable with any degree of accuracy. 17. At a proper distance above the null point of this rod, a divided scnle, S, is nda pted, of such a length as will serve for all observations intended to be made with tile individual barometer: suppose, for instance, from 24 to 32 inches, or lo,ver down when needed. This scale part can be of brass, or any other materinl, as it is al\vays easy to make a table adapted to the · metal used. 1s. In tl slit of this divided scale slides a piece of brass mounting, a, presentilig to the. tube a very thin ring, about i of an inch high, which encircles the tube, :md b cut open vertica Hy, so as to form a light sprin~, admitting to adapt itself to a light friction upon the tube; in the observation, the lower end of this ring is brought tangent to the convex iUrfnce of the mercury, while it pr<'sents to the divisions of the scale the vernier, which it equally_ bears. It is guided by the finger i;crew, t, which presses a light bruss spring to the scale, by harid 011ly, und holds itlil position by friction; it serves to screw also the whole piece fnst. It is evident that, if desired, the motion of the piece, a, may be put under the guidance of a rack and pinion, iffoun~ preferable, like it is often done; bnt I prefer the simple motion by hand. 19. A thermometer, with tho bulb and glass tubo projecting about U inch bdow the scale, is suspended so as to plunge its bulb in the mereury basin; this may be ei1her hung down from the sen.le by a string, or from a hook fastened at the aid~ of tho vcrtica\ bar of the sta11d, to which the bnrometer is mounted~ as in figure Z. 20. A stnnd, to bear the whole n.rr~ngoment, may be mnd~ according to the convenience, or the meRm~, of the obse1·ver. It reqnirc!l, of cottrl'e, a small bench to place the n1erc1iry basin upon. The manner in which I generally arranged ~t, for two barometers, (as I think it a pro11cr precaution to have 11.lways several to judge of their sin.to uud n.ccurncy,) is reprcscn1ed at Z. The drawing needs no special explanation. In t1 bseucc of such a stand, n. branch of a tree, near the stem, may be · contrived, by n. little ingenuity, to unswer the same plll'posc. 21. To place the barometer under openition, the following is thu proper manner: Thp purity and cleanliness of the mercnry in the basin is the first and most essential 1)oint to be attended to. It is proper to have for that. purpose a. fl.ask of distilled mercury, which is hcsl rnndo in the form of which tho outline is seen in the plate, I; the cover, X, of which screws over it, holds the stopper pressed in its pluco when shnt, and has, nt its rounded top, a projecting tube fitting in the hole of the ueck at the top of the flask Y. Tims the cover, when inverted, serves as n fnnnel to pour the meranry iu the flask. . 22. The bnsin intended to receive the lower e11d of the barometer is to be filled with mercury, deep enough to immerse the tuhc nbovo the steel forule. To have it cleau, a funnel is made of writing paper, leaving on the
2

18

Doc. No. 176.

bottom only a small hole about the size of a pin; through this the mercury is sifted into the basin. 23. The plate e e being supposed screwed fast to the. projecting top of the stand, arid the screw, guiding the hook to suspend the tube from, being in its plilce; as seen in the 6,gure Z, the piece holding the vernier, and the brass ring, &c., is put over the tube, lightly holding by the. spring of the tubular part. The fern le,/, is fastened at the hermetically sealed end of the tube (which is Y!lt held lowermost) by means ol the s~rew P, at the side of it. For the easy steadiness 9f this bold, tile glass tube.is to be enveloped at that 'part either with two or three TOlllH.IS of paper, .a small strip of velvet, or other 1:1imilar stuff. JM. While holding the open part of the barometer tube upwards, the wedge holding the iron plate with the cnshion is taken off. Now holding this top near the mercury basin, a little mercury is taken up with a clean small piece of paper, pressed jn the :;;hnpe of a shovel, and put in the top of tlie tube, c:msiug it to overflow in the basin. What little oxide may have formed itself upon the top will ruu over i11 the basin, aud clean this part; then place the ball of a finger's end, of sulllcient size to qover the opening of the tube exactly over the opening, and press it fast, air tight. A little mercury falling again off in the basin ; then this part of the tube is approached to the basin, and, with tile finger upon the opening, immersed in it, while, with tho other hand, the sealed end of the tube is graduitlly raised, holding the open part always tight. shut up, with the finger under tile mercury, until the tube is nearly upright, when tbc .finger is withdrawn from the opening, then nothing but mercury, and no air, can enter the tube. Ultimately it is placed perpendicular. It ]s now tried, if fully free of air, by causing the mercury, column to strike at the top, by means of a somewhat sudden but slight inclination. The sound of the dead stroke will indicate that the operation has succeP.detl. This inversion re4uiros, ot: course, some care and dexterity, which it ought always be allowed to suppose to an observer, or experimentator. 25. The barometer stands now upright in the mercury basin upou the two projecting parts of the steel ferule. By the hook of the screw through the platQ e e, it is 11ow made to hitch, by the riug at the top of the ferule, to the hook of the screw, which is made turning round like a swivei at the end of the· sere w. . To give it the full, free, perpendicularity, it is screwed up until it is felt tliat. the tube hangs slightly free from the bottom of the mercury basin ; 1-lO its perpe11dic11larity is seemed by its own weight. 26. The measuring rod, with the scale, is now put through its corresponding hole in the plate e e, its upper part being pushed through from below, and plunged into the mercury by its lower end; the ivory swimmer being ptit from below over the rod, will swim freely upon the surface. 27. For the observation, the part of the steel rod, from which the 11ull point of the scale is to be counted, is, of course, first to be adjusted, by moving the screw at the top, so as to make the liigher mark 11pon the steel rod to coincide with the top of the swimmer, for which it is intended, and by which the coincidence of the o point of the scale is iudicated, to coincide with the top of the mercury. 28. Now, the piece a, is placed in its proper place in the scale, in the slit, in which the holding part of it fits; it is clamped by the screw t, in such a manner as to admit sliding, and to be held in its position by friction, and this can be moderated by more or less pressure of the screw t, so as to al-

Doc. No. 176.

19

low it gently to be moved by hand, because the small plate below the screw forms a spring upon the scale; then the lowe1· part of the ring of the ·piece, a, being placed so that the .lower edge forms an exact tangent to the convexity of the mercury in the tube, the standing of the mercury is .evidently indicated by the scale, and the vernier of the piece a, which slides along the scalt:, . 2ff. This· poitition, and its reading, furnishes the observation of the barometer, to which the indication of the thermometer immersed in the mercury bu sin, and of another free one, being added, all the desired.data of the observation are obtained. · 30. Though it is evident that the taking dowu or dismounting of the baromete1· 1nust be the inversed operation of the pntting it up, ns above described, it may not be superfl.ous to state here the regnlar operation, to prevent any erroneous move, lo such persons as may not be used to similar operations. 31. The barometer tube, when in operation, being freely suspended by the hook at the lower eud of the screw d, and the upper ferule f, it is lowered by the scre\tr which guicl'es this hook, so as to touch the bottom of the basin, to stand upon the two projecting pieces g g, of the iron ferule bulow, where it is easy to support it, while it is further lowered, until the ring , part of the ferule f of the tube can be disengag8d from it; then the b~ass piece a, holding the vernier, is loosened, by taking out the screw t, and the piece is held in the hand, together with the upper part of the tube. The tube is now inclined gradually, so that it fills itself to the top; by its striking dry to this top, it will prove to be properly free of air. All this time, the lower end of the tube is kopt tou<'hing the bottom of the mercury basin by the iron legs,g g, of the ferule, nnd the aperture is kept well under the mercury. 32. W.hen the tube is thus well filled again, pass a finger's end in the basin of mercury, between the pieces g ff, nnd shut the opening of the tube closely with it, so as to enable to continue turning the sealed end of the tube downwards; and last raise tho open lower eud~ well shut hy the finger, out ·of the mercury, to a perpendicular position, and hold it uppermost; then the finger can be takon off without spilling, nnd the tube being full, is shut up with the iron plate and cushiou by the wedge. Some small dtops of mercury which \Vill be about the opening can easily 'be pushed off in the basin; the tube can now be placed in its proper case for travelling; all the other parts, ferule, scale, basin, &c., nre then taken up and cared in such a manner as will be stated it1 describing the packing for travelling; their manipulation needs no special description.

]Jlanner of constructing lite barometer.
33. In rospect to tlie mechanical part to be executed in metul, the above description, showing what is required from that side, will be sufficient to guide the work, as no special instruction is needed for an n ble mechanician. The operation which is to be described, und which requires cam and some delicacy in the operation, if;! the filling of the tube with mercnry, so as to exclude all air. 34. The mercury to be used must be pnre, distilled mercury. The tube must be perfectly clean, so much so, that seldom an old tube that has served already, can be made to give a good barometer again; therefore, the new tube, which has been from it~ making shut up by a stopper, or still

Doc. No. l76.
. .

better, hermetically sealed, shall be preferred, or, in fact, is the only one a~lllissible. · · 35. The tube is cleaned by means of a flock of well washed, long, new, wool, deprived of all 'grease, soap, dust, or other uncleanliness, (11ot auy cotton, because cotton scratches glass;) this is held at the end of a thin piece of whalP.bone or of metal wire, wrapped around close with linen or woollen thread, so that no metal can touch the glass; this rod or wire'hns, at its lower end, a smaller part of wire tu med in the form of .a cork11crew, to guilie the flock of wool, which is made.to fit somewhat tight in the tute: turn it by a corkscrew motion, and well round at the sealed end; then grad11ally turn it back out by a screw-like motion, while always holding the sealed part of the tube upwards. For this operation the t.uhe must· be warm, as well as the wool and the rod, to prevent all possible dampness; to this effect, I bring al ways the whole befo1·e the fire-tube, mercury,wool, and wire-before the first beginniug. 36. The open end is now again lightly stopped with a small paper cone, and is hung btlfore a fire, so as to get equally warm through its whole length, or put in such an inclined position before the fire, that the inside air escapes easily, and admits no vapor to stick to the gla,ss. 37. 'rhe mercury is passed through a paper funnel, in a well-wiped glass goblet, wi1h an eltlvated foot, placed also before the fire, and covered from dust, so that the tnbe and the mercury get both equally as warm as may be admissible to allow the necessary manipulation of the parts. 38. When in this state, the operator sitting bt·fore the fire, in the' same dry and warmnir, takes the tube, placi~]g the Sl·aled end in his shoe, to be able to guide it by the foot, aud holdiug the tube inclined from perpendicularity, only, so much, as will cause the mercury to run, alw&.ys touching the same side of the tube. 39. With a paptlr funnel, us before described, in one hand,.the goblet with the mercury in the other, he fills the paper funnel held over the open end of the barometer tube, so that the small hole at the bottom of it acts as a strainer; it is best, even here, to let the first few drops of mercury go in another vessel, to get no oxi<le in the tube; the tube is thus filled until te about one-third of ai1 inch from the top ; (here the operator is to be warned to hold fast, in order not to be ovcrtuken by the electric stroke, which will take place, between the mercury iu the tnhe and that in the funr1el, when the operation has succeeded the best.) 40. The tube will now show air hubbies in more or less placE's; these do, however, not adhtlre, if the opr.ratiou has otherwise surceeded. They are easily removed by the following operation : Shutting the open end of the tube tight with the finger's end, the sealed cud of the tube is gradually elevated, so as to make the air shm in by the finger travel slowly till to the sealed end, revolving a little the tube, so as to make it tuke up u11der way, in this course, as much of the air bubbles as can easily be; now turnirig the tube round, and making, hy .grndnal inclination in slow vertical motion, the ·sealed end to be again filled exactly, the open end of the tube being always kept exactly closed, is again elevated very slowly, so as to cause the mercury to empty itself gradually from tlie column on the side of the open end, (which in this operation is the higher one,) towards the sealed end of the tube, in a continued small stream, until it is all connected in -one column, so the tube is in some measure filled again anew, exactly. 4-1. If, in this manner, a constant, light, uninterrupted, string of merc~ry is maintained, between the two columns, when the whole has passed, it

Uoc. No. 176.

21

.will mosL geuemlly be fom:d that the tube is entirely free of uir, lo about
half an iuch of the open side ; during this operation the tube has gradually come in a perpendicular positiou, the open part upwards; and it is now fillfld entirely by the small necessary addition of merCJ:uy, as stated before, with a small paper shovel. _4.2. If, however, some uir bubbles should still adhere, the operation of turniug over may be rereat~d, before the t'ube is_ entirely filled. But if the whole of the above process has been done. carcfnlly, under 11 properly elevated state of tempern1ure, therefore of great rarity of the air, and mobility of the mercury, the simple process just described, performed by a steady regular motion, will hardly fail to give a most perfect barometer. 4 3. It w11.s formc;rly thought, and is certaiuly still by many people, that the boiling of the mercury in the t~1be wns the best; the operation is vory danger~us, as to breaking the tubt:s. It is evident thnt the barometer tube cannot be boiled when full-the pressure of the mercury is too great; the development of the air in the lower part of tho column lifts the whole, and bursts the tube. Boiling, therefore, the barometer, with the tube about t or.\ full, then ha\f, &c., us habituo.\, the following is what happens: the mercury vapors, rising, adhere to the inside of the tube, nnd resist generally, at lenst the mercury that is poured over, so that no complete freedcm is obtained, and this mercury gns, which is created by the operation, Rdheres to the tube. When thl'l barometer is ultimately put up, it is collected at tbe top of it, whP.re a vacuum should be, and forms a very elastic, though rare, atmosphere; the barometer then becomes pho·sphorescent, what was considered n gtlod quu!ity, but evidently indicates the presence of a foreign gas, by the first elcmumts of natural philosophy; in proof of it, the baromelel' docs not strike foll dry. Of course, nlso, some barometers · made by boiling have succeeded ; but by far tho greatest numbe1· either· broke, or were subject to the defccls here stnted, which has certainly discouraged many, as well as me. . 44. The ttn·an}fement of tlte packing for tmvelling is the followiug, for one single barometer: The tube nnd the steol rod with tho scale are -titted in grooves of a cylindric stick of wood, o( 2 inches din meter, lined with thick woollen cloth of blanket stuff or the like, so that the iron ferule of the tube, and tho screw nt the top of the steel rod, rench above the block, and the tube resls below upon the same woollen stuff; this block is fitted into a tube of sheet tin, with a cover slidiug on, ·which will be filled with some soft stuff, to prevent its moving up, being gently held in its . pince by the pressure of tile cover. 45. The mercnry basin is supplied by n. qnaclrangular box of .pasteboard, lined und covered with leather, varnished, nnd with a cover ; in travelling, the upper brass ferulfl of the tube, the vernier part, the swimmer, &c., may be pl:.iclfd in it for transpor1atio11. Tile box is impervious to mercury, and safer against breaking thnu a glass or earthen ware vessel.

F. R. HASSLER.
52. To be enabled to weigh with tlie same, or at least proportional ac.:. curacy, a.s hitherto done with the other standards, the dry capacity meas\lres of the bushel, or rather half-bushel, which it was found much more proper to adopt, as it is habitually us~cl, and easier managed, it became necessary to constmct a balance capable of weighing, with the required degree of accuracy, about 1.20 to 150 pounds avoirdupois in each ba-

22

Doc. No. 176.

It will, therefore, be proper to give here, in advance of the account npon the next part of the standard system)· which is to hr. execute<;], the description of the halance constructed for that~1se· in th~ workshop of this.otfice, t\S follows : ·

sin~ task never heretofore attempted in n metal balance.

53. Description of tile balance consfructed f<,;., he ac{juslrnr.nl of the stand. ' ard !ta!f b11shel1 ·
l. The balance rests upon a marble plate of about 8 feet long, .2~ feet broad, and 5 inches thick, cemented and levelled upon a brick floor resting upon the ground, in the basement story of the office, where the heavier weighings are habituall-st made. In the middle of this plate is elevated a massive of marble, of 16 inches high, 31 inches in the direction of the large marble plate, a11d .21 inches in the direction perpendicular to it. This is cemented to the marble plate first mentioned. Plate II represents a ge1.ieral view ef the whole balance. 2. A plate of brass of one inch thickness rests upon this central stone block, and is cemented to it; upon this rest. the four fluted quadrangular columns, fastened to it by iron bars, pressing from below that plate, through the middle hollow part of the coll1mns, to the square capitals of the same, D, D, and rhrough the plate H, H,joining the upper part of the four columns. The parrs through which these bars pass are therefore held together by the strong pressure of the screws, which ha\'C their mothers, Z Z, beneath the lower plate; for these mothers there are excavations made in the s1011e of the central block, where they are, of course, cemented together with rhe plate CCC C itRelf. 3. Upon this upper plate and the capituls D, D, which are superposed to it, rest two pieces, B, B, one on one side of the scale beam, the other on the opposite side, thence resting mtch npon two of the columns, and the plate H, H, which joins all four columns, and to which they are screwed fast; these hold up and guide. at their inner side, two dovetailed pieces, sliding perpendicularly, and bearing the steel plate 1, 1, up tu the knife edge 3, 3, of the sc~le beam, which therefore rests upon these steel plates when the balance is in activity; their !'eceding downwards sets the balance at rest by removing this central support, and letring the beam rest upon the two pins O, O, placed for that purpose in the beam at 22,5 inches from the cen-· tre, snffibiently a hove the horizontal middle line of the beam, to secure its steadiness in this suspension ; this rentral support is 43 inches elevated above the brass plate, C C, at the bottom of the columns. 4. The balarn;e beam is 67 inches long between the two points of suspension, A, A, of the basins, which, therefore, are 33,5 inches from the central knife edge; they are quadrangnlar prisms, passing through the midcJJe of the nearly circ11lar part at each end of the be!hn, presenting to the suspension of the basins, by their upper edge, knife edges formed by n sqna!'o prism, exactly similar, but Rmaller, to that of the central knife edge, while the central quadtangulur prism p!'e:,:cntR a knife edge downward!'!. 5. On these two opposite knife edges hangR a brass frumc, in the fol'm of an inverted stirrup, bearing plates of steel on ench side, with a circular, slight excavation, for this the central or most elevated part is marked hy a slight line on both sides, to secure its full regularity of adjustment, in the placing of these pieces; the special shape of it is fully seen in the general figure of the b_alance, plate II, and the figure X, at the side of it. It reaches

Doc. No. 176.

23

down for some distance in order to give it a free motion, and it has on the lower end a loop, which receives a hook in tho form of a returned S, of pol· ished cast steel, where namely the two hooks are at. right angles to one another, whit<h, of course, breaks off all. stiffness of motion that might rev main from tbe urrupgemeut above, and has the effect of making the weight below hang completely free from that poiut; from which, therefore, the snspension.anangement for the basius bangs down completely freo, (which will be described hereu(ter.) . . . 6. The two centred pieces, B, s, rc:sting with their ends upon the t\vo tops, D, D, of the columns, ou each side of tlw bulauce beam, aud between upon the plate H H, are G,2 inches elevated over the plate H; they have, at their inuer side, dovetailed holders, enclosing two strong perpendicular slid· ing pieces, which carry the steel plates l, 1, up~n which rests tho angular edge of the ceutral square prism, whicl1 prescuts tho lrnifo edge; to movo these supports, they are fastenetl to u circular plate joining them below, so that, by elevating this plate, they are both situultaneously raised perpendic· ulnrly, thns forming ouly ono piece with them, and presenti11g un nmuigemeut destined. to uwet the centrul knife vdge, a11d with it to Jift the whole bnlanee iuto activity, by elevntii1g its centre about half au inch, or to put it back iuto rest by lowcriug it. . 7. This perpendicular lift is obtaiue<l by n peculiar, nu<l entit'ely uew, ar· rn11gemei1t, thus: The circular plate of 5& i11ches diameter, upon which tho dovetailed perpen<licular pieces, carryiug tlic central steal plntc, upon which tho kuife e<lge shall rest, tu·e fo1:1tened, has thtl form of a cover of a round box, with a steel centre in tlw middle ; cxcttvatious in the'supporting piece:!!, s, admit its freo motion up and down, whicl1 tho supports for the distance re11uired. . 8. It receives iu the lower cxc;lVatcJ purl I\ plate of cast steel, S-S, with two ha!Hlles, projecting diametrically opposite to each other, figure.-i, plate III. Near its circnmforoncc, for about thrco-qnnrtcrs of nn inch, it is dividod into fivo parts, or sectors; these quiutants nm s11hdividcd in five parts, in the following manner: 0110 part is npon n. level with the lower plane of this steel plate, thou three pu \'ls fl1rru a co11ti11ucd inclined plane, risiug gm<luully till to half all inch from that snrlhce, thcrl' it nwets a resting place of again one part, horizontal, an<l purallel to th~ first resting plane. This piece revolves around the centre, below the precotl1i1g box-cover.shaped onc,nud is placed iu a1~ invcrtc~ positiou, us r:-prcsento<l in,fig:mi 4~ plate II~, somewhat Ill perspective, H1JCl 1ts two oppostlo hamJlcs, S, S, proJeCt OU!SldO, On both sides, till past tho cxcavatiou of the 111iddlc oC the plate H H; thereby this plune can be guided frqm outsicle, by tumiug this piece oromal the centre for one-fifth of the circumfon~nce, w hicl1 is all that is needed to bring the balance from its resting position, iu tl1e free suspension needed for its action. 9. A centre piece in the plate II I-I is of wt! cast, (that is, copper aud tin,) like the cover, above the steel plu.tc with haudles, which makes easier motion with the steel, and hns, as the drawing shows, exactly the divisiou of its ri1~1, like that of the st.eel piece, b1.1t ir.1 u11 i!1vcrted pm1itio11;so that tho deep· eurng of the one rocctves the pr0Ject10n oJ rlne other exuctly, when tlrn balance is lowered; and when the piece S 8 is revolved about. its centre in the upper box, the two elevated part::; standing upon one another, the balance is elevated for the amount of this elevation, (that is, half nu inch,) and the balance rests now upon the lower edge of the qu11drangula1· central prism, oicillating according to the wants of the weighing. In this manner the

24

Doc. No. 176.

revolution of the ste~l plate, figure 4, performs the bffi.c'e of elevator of the baLtnce beam by a perpendicular lilt. . · · 10. Two arms, 7 7, (plate II and plate Ill, figure 3,) on each side, origiµating from behi11d the capitals, D, D, of the coltimns, above the plate H H, resting upon thi~ end, in part embracing the same, reach up in an inclining elevating direction towards) and till nea1· below the pins, crossing the balance be~m at 0, O, a hove mentioned; the two arrns reaching towards the sa111e side of the beam's arm, from the front and rear of it, are joined, at some dis~ tance from the columns, by a crossing piece; they bear there a piece of brass, u, n, y, drawn separate in plate II, opposite one side of the beam, in the form of an elongated y ; these revolve upon two axe~, one at each side of the beam, upou which they can revolve to the two positions which are marked i11 the general figµre, plate II, the one in full lines, and the other in dotted lines, in the perpendicnlar posi1io11, these pieces admit the pins 0 O, passing through the beam of the balance, to pass up and down with the motion of the beam, while the balance is in ~perati!Jll for weighing ; when the balance is intended. to be rested, the same pieces are moved by means of the lower parts y, which serve as handles; in the position which is marked by the dotted lines; it brings its two y y at the ends n, n, directly uudcr the pins, O, 0, of the beam, and arrests its -motion. 11. This motion being made with these supports for both arms of the balance simultaneously, the turning towards the right of the handles of the steel piece S S, figure 4, plate I II, brings tho balance to rest by the pins, Q, O, at each of the opposite arms of the beam npon these y, y, at the end of these. supporting pieces; the central dovetail pieces, which bear the steel support of the central knife edge, being then lowered, relieves also the lmif~ edge entirely, so th.at no part of the balance, acti11g i11 thc weighing, can be subject to unnecessary bearing or action. , 12. At the central part of the top of the balance beam is a ball, 4, as usual, for counterpoising; llndcr that a light arm of abont two inches long,, marked 5, revol vcs around its st Pm, and can be brought on either side, so as to compensate the last miuute parr, that may be needed to establish perfect equilibrium of the whole balance, by the positL;n in which it can be placed, to bring ~ts small weight, more o~· less, to ~he one or the othe_r side, or in case the adJUStrncut of the balauce 1s otherwise exact, to· keep lt balancing itself by its position perpendicular tp the beam. 13. The miuute reading of the balarl<'C iS"obtaiued by the index of light lever, presenting a vernier formed .flat piece to a sector of a circle, u u, fixed at the end of the supporting arms, 7, 7, n small support, t, t, frxed to the doveta:led piece, 1, 1, above described, bears the axis of that lever, arotrnd which it revolves; the long end reaching to the sector of 21,5 inches long, is made of a light vtrip of whalebone; the small arm is 1, l inch loug-, made of brass, so as to bring a friction roller which is at tho end of it, by u light pressure, in contact with the lower inclined side of the centn;1l knife edge, by leaving a light overpoise to the longer arm.· This arrangement procures a multiplication of the angnlur movement of the balaucc in the proportion of the two arms of the lever, and the inclination of the side plane of the centr.'.1.1 knife to the pP.rpendicular; the very centrnl position at which the friction roller touches the inclined plane of the knife edge, makes that the' balance can in no way whatever be affected by it; therefore it takes nothing of its sensibility' while it brings the two readings of the stand of the balance nearer to the operator at tl1e balance, who if~, of course, supposed to sit before the middle of it.

a

1)oc .. No. 176.

25

14. ~rhe half-bushel required a dimension for the basin part of the balance of 20 inches ·diameter, the porpondicular suspension rods ot which should be reaching up to a distance of at least as mnch, without sensibly narrowing this space ; thence the npper corresponding frame, by which the whole arrangement is imspended by the hook P, in the form of a half. turned S, described above, must present supports of complete stiffness at n. considerable distance from the centre, at the same time it is very desir~ble that the bn lance shcmld not be laden with any superfluous weight; at the end of this distance the connexion between this part, and the lower basin must, therefore, be uearly perpendicular. 15. With the view to these qualificat1ons, the uppor frame RR was constructed in the following manner : A brass triangle of the proper dimension, RR, is made, the sides of which lie horizontally, and have circular enlargements at the three angles, perforated in their ce11ti·e, to admit the passage of steel rods, which connect the Jo~er basin arrangement with it; screws and milled head mothers hold these steel bars in their position to both the upper and lower frame work. (Sec the gonernl drawing and the details in plate III.) 16. To support this triangle property, a frame work if> made, which has for its centre piece a brass cylinder of about three-quarters of an inch in diameter and 9 iuches in length; this bears nt its upper part a ring, which is hung to the hook P, o[ the shape of a turned S; below that, it receives a circular rim, to which three arms, at edge bar to it, inclined towards the horizontal triangle, are fixed, joining the three a11gular parts of the same. At its ·lower end it receives u similar centre, arn] three arms, exactly like the upper ones, reaching from below to the augular part of tlrn horizontal triangle. A strong brass screw and mother, at the lower centre, pl'esses the two inclined triangles together to the horizontal one, and forms a very strong braciug and stiff support to the extremities, where the steel bars pass through, thus uniting the upper a1\d lower triangles together to their suppot't. The bars of all this arrangement are only of about three-quarters of an i~1ch in breadth aud one-eighth of an inch in thickness, therefore very light ; still the mechanical principle of their combination renders them capable to support a weight certainly more than five times !urger tha11 the 150 lbs. which they have to bear in the cuse of our work. lt presents a triangle inscribed in a cirele of 16 inches. 17. 'fhe low':lr frame, upo11 which the bushel or half-bushel is to stand, consists of u triungulu.r frame, the radii of which am 10 inches, going off from a round.centre to the extremities I·\ F, F, (figure 7, plate III,) to meet them again a smaller circular purl, perfornted to receive the perpendicular steel bars coming from the upper fra111c, and held to this frnme again by screws and mothers from below ; it !ms a strengthening triangle within, connecting the stron~r radii from the centre, to which it helps to give stiffness. ~II these piooos ure edge bared, being about one inch high; they are narrower above than below, so as to present a small surface above, and admit iu case the water to run off easilv from th1J sides. 18. This side of tho balance requires no plate or basin, which would, 011 the contrury, be in the wny. Below the centre of this frame projects downwards a cylinder of about three inches long and half an inch thick, in form of a pin, which admits to be taken hold of by n pincer, V, V, with a rectangular incision in each arm ; its centre is at W, at the other end, r~olv ing upon an axis; aud it is opened or shut by a steel scrnw at M, having a

26

Doc. No. 176.

right.hand thread in one of the arms, and a left hand one in the other, resting upon a centre piece at its other extremity, and guided by a large milled head handle T; by t,he motion of this the end of the pincer, V V, is pressing fast, o~ loosening; the cylinder B, ~nder the centre. 19. As it is essential, in weighing, to keep the balance in full steadiness and quiet equalit!(, this pincer holds the triangular frame fast below while the basin is lading ; and when it is laden, the opening of it gives the freedom to the balance which is necessary during the weighing. · 20. The other basin, which is intended to receive the weights, has a frame similar to the one described, only somewhat lighter, upon which it holds a plate to receive the weights; the whole is made exactly equal iu weight to the frame on ~he other side, destined to receive the half bushels. It is represented in figure o, plate III, sufficiently for its full intelligence. 21. It will be understood, as a matter of course, that all the parts of the balance that are connected with the beam for weighing, as suspensions, stirrups, triangle, basins, &c., are made of exactly equal weight, each to each, for both sides of the balance. F. R. HASSLER.

