26th CONORF.881 lat Session.

[SENATE.]

[ 15]

LE'l'TER
PROM

'rHE SECRE.TAUY 01!., THE TREASURY,
COMMUNICATING

Tl&e amiual rtpnrt nf the s11.pcrin.tendmt nf tlia coast s11rvey, and of tho fabrication of standard weights and measures. 27, 1839.

DECEMBER

Rend, and ordered thlll 600 11ddi1iono.l l'opics be printed.

'l'nEAsuuv

DF.PARTM EN'r,

December 26, 1839. Sm: I hnvo the honor to submit, herewith, for tho inforrnntion of the Sennte, copy of n joint report, mudc to the department by 1''. R. Hussler, Esq., superintendent of the coust snrvey, n11d of the work for prcpnring stnndaru weights nud measures, showing the progress nud present condition of those works respectively. All of which is respectfully snbmitted.

LEVI WOODBURY,
/Secretary of the Hon. WM. R. KINo, President pro tern. of tlte U1ii.ted Slates Senate.
1~·uuury.

Eightlt. report qf F. R. Hassler, as sttprrilltcndmrt of tlte sm'vl'y of the coast of tlte Unitl!d Stales, and of the co11slruclio1& of staudards of weights and measures ; r·e1tdering account of the works o/ 1839.

Upon the survey oj tlte coast.
1. The proper orgnnizntion l\nd course of operation in n geodicnl work of su.:h exleut ns the survey of the cot\St of the United Stutes, is dicwted by the nature of the country, nnd the relntive position of its pnrts ; pre· senting o. long stretch of very unequal coast, with only such o. breudth ns the exigences of the work required; this dictnted to begin nt ~uch an approximutely central pnrt of the country ns would present the most fucilit.y and best J!rospects for lnrge triangles, to serve ns foundation of the work, and prodi.16'e the gre11test qno.ntity of dutn for thnt purpose in tho shortest time; presenting, also, within its limits, n locnlity for n base line of pro· portiont~~e!~gth, nnd the necessary facility for its accurate m8Qlurement,
Blair 6'· RiveH1 prw.Lera,

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387

:-[ 15J
from which the work might nftcrwnrd spread in both directions the country simnltnnt·ously, aud ultenwtdy, us circnmstunces would dictate or allow. 2. Thence the work was hegnn in the 11eighborhood of Ne\V York sound, Long Islnud, nud its large sound, &c., which cvide11tly present the requisites uud qunl1fic11tions ubove stated. The works of the p1eceding years hud filled np with the main nnd secomlury trinngnlulion, and the topogrnphical, ns well ns hydrogrnplticul detnil, most pnrt of the. distric1 from the Jersey shore of the Rariton a11d L'\e\v York bny, till towards the enst end of Long Island, the sound, nnd opposite islnnils: the shore of the main land of New York, Connecticnt, till Black Point, &c. · 3. The field works of this last seuson were i11 sorue measure u beginning of the stepping over from the eustern side nf these w0rks to the so11ll1westeru, to open 011 that side, also, the field for rhe topogrnphicill n11d hydrographicnl detail works through the southern pnrls oi l\1~w Jersey, purl of Pe1111sylvnnia, to the seashore ot Jersey, nlong llt\rnegat bny, uud tho Iklaware. 4. A II the snrvcy of Long Island, as well the topogrnphicnl, us the hy· drn~rnphicul part of it!! outer seashore 011 the south, 1111d that of tlrn sonud to the 11orth, had been complctt-d the prccedin~ years, till to GnrJner's buy, of which a parl ol'the sounding rerna111ed yet Jor this year. 5. The works of this year on the 11or1lieru shore of the sonnd, inclnde, as well the topographical, ns the hydrogrupbical su rvcys of Block i~lnnd, ·the numerous islands of f'isher's sound, and othei·s, the shore of Con11cc,ticu11 und Rhode Island, wi1h tl11dr deep iiilnnd wnlcrs, from Blnck J>11i11t 1 .where the hydrographicnl works hud ended last ycnr, 1IH011gh the whole iof ft'isher's sound, so thnt the work reaches no\V on that sido the shores and waters of the eastern Slates. 6. The survcye on land were carried inlnnd ns for ns the nntnre .of tho cons! on ono side; cu:id the lime 011 the other, diclnred or allowPd; nlwnys fo.ruishiu~, to the hydrogrnphical party, which is carried 011 p11ralkl wi1h tile works, on the shore, the fo11darnc11lal points to ground theil' d.!termi1llltions of the points of sounding upon them: these wcorks occupied oue of tho .·ouud111g parties, and 11 11uruber of topogr~1phicul pnrtiPs. 7. 'l'he other sounding pnrty finbhed the works in G;1rdner's hay, thence ronnd Block island, nloug the Rhores 1)f tlic row of islau<ls. t11rni11g up to 'the ·main, n11d n purt of the mnin shore, in continuauce of \vhere the other party left off, from the side of Fisher's sound; a part of. the sume topo· grnphical parties fnrni!'hing the dc1ermi11ing ln11d poi111s us ulWitys nsnnl. S. A second part of the work lo be execnted this yenr, in thut enstern part of tho survey, wns the topogrnphy of the purrs, lict ween the con 111 ry uear·lhe shore, surveyed with retere11ce to the sounding more espccinlly, -'8nd 1 tbe limit of the mnin tr111ngul11tiou,· further iu the inierior; the !Oriuer lhavi11e; o.lw11ys· been acceleratc<.I in its ·progress, so o.s to nssist constn11tly the hydrogrnphers in their prosrrcsR ou the warer, it could t1ot he m1rried <:sufikiently deep, lnnd iuwnrd, for ull the wants of the survey in general, this ,part Of the topogrnpliieal works was therefort'l to be romplet··d, nnd it ·required yet some secondnry triang!Bs to complete it, beRides tho pln\n.tnb~e works. 'It nppenrs, however, that the senson will nol'serve long enough 'to prel'ent operation if it fan yet in next year's work. Hnt this will uot 'rev.enr.'the house works of muppiilg, which nre ·intended· to be doue \he .~onung \\'inter fonhnt pLtrt·of die country.

or

s
1

[ 15

J

the North ri wr IH'nr the ~ lont on tho west sidL of the Hudson ri vcr, cor- · responding- npposite lo 'l'nrrytown, 01'1 the cust side of i·, which is the bo1i11dnry poi11t from which the work, which hus just been meutioned, slurts townrds tho east. · 'rho western limit of this work following tho Newark mounlnins, nnd, the trinng-le points csiablished upon them, uutil to their intersection with the Raritou river hdaind New Brnnswick, n11d to the pnns surveyed as ' shore line in lhnt pnrt of the co1111try. lll. 'l'hns the· ~urvr.y of the whole cnnntry from the New Jersey shore: of the Rnriton hny, Snndy Hnok, n11d Shrews!11Hy, till to tho waters of the' eastern Srntrs is completed ill topo,g-rnphy nnd hydrogrnphy, grounded upon, nnd i11clmled in, a grent. nnmhnr of secoudnry triuugles, which themse,lves · nre hnsr.d npon the main triung11latio11. Only over u srnnll portion, n-t !lie enst end, the primnry trinngnlntion does. not y()t r.·nch, bn t the secondary tria11g-1iln1 io11 is nccn rnto enoug-h, nnd near enough to the rnnin trinnglr.s 11pnn \Vhirlt they nro g-ronnded, lo secnre ngni11sl 1111llnnhts11po11s11flicio11t11ccnrncy for lhe d!'.lnil operntions of topogrnphy nnd hydrogruphy. When the ml\in lrin11µ-nl11tion will be ngain cnrric·d to thnt side of the work, it will soon cover it over. 'l'he whole of the works prt>senls to the ~011th in some me:isnre nstrnig-ht line, from which' the work will proceed snntherly through New Jersey ni1d Pc1111sylvn11in. 11. ·Views for tho g11id1111ce of the 1rnvigntor 11pproachi11g the shore, as mentioned in the Inst report, hnvc been n111do Inst Sllll1111Cl' hy Ollf,l or the' ussistnnrs, on the whole cxtettt of tlio outside coast of Lo11g lsln11d, nnd nl such pl11ccs of Llio eastnn pnrt of the sound, us were fomid properly the hydrngrnpliic parties, who hnd of course to lend !lie selection of th(lse point~; these nrc of two kind, 1he one guiding, the othrrs wurning. 'l'he first nre nsrccts of the shore from the mo~t. irnport11nt poi11ts of n ehnnnel m· en1ra11ce of n port, &c., by which the scnllll\ll is ~ttided iu his proper· conrse itt nppronchi11~. 'l'hc seco11d kinds nre views hllrnn from rocks,. sho11ls, or nthnr da11g1~ro11s pluces in the upprouches oftlrn shore, which the· vfow given shall wnrn him lo nvoitl. 12. lit extension of those principles, the views of every li.ght-honse were tnkc11 double, fir.~t from the l111bit11al 1>hip chnnncl nt n distance nt which vessels wonld h11hitunlly pnss it, nnd second from the proximity, where the light·honsr. becomes entirely viliihlc, nnd so nenr as to warn from nearM npproaching unless special views of 11111ding1 "~c. 'l,he Sllllth shorn of Long lslaud is well known for its dnngers by the mnltiplieity of shipwrrcks on ii; thrrefore, speci11l direction was given to drnw views from the linhittrnl ship cha111wl 011tsido, nt every short interval, or ill somr. ldlld of n moving pn11ornmn 1 by which thu appronehing- senmen mny reconnoitre the port to which ho is nenr, nud g11ido himself in .his course by the views which he is thus shown thut he shall meet in sµrcession in his intended conrse. 13. f'ro111 Sandy Honk soml1crly, th8 Jersey scnshore, with Barnegat· bny, n11d 11 cr.rt11i11 b1·1·odth nlong the inner shorn of the snme, hns nlso been snrvey1·d 1 till down to the rrnighborhood of l·~gg H111bor rh·or., 'l'his pnrt of the shore is d 1ffic111t of nr·cess, from tho i11tcrinr by trin11.ir11lation, on ncconnt o'.f the henvy wnod1·d, hnt low hills wl11ch snp11rat\l it from the other land. of Jers1iy1 so thnl it will become nuavoiduble to cut through the forests in

9. A work ~imilnr to the nhove, hnt of mnch smnller extent, wns exr.cu1ed on the Wt'St sidP of the Nt~\V York nnd R1uito11 hny through the cn11nlry frurn:

[ 15]

4

various places, to get lines (or trinngleN, joinin~ this work to the interior parts in sevP.ral pluces, in order to biud up wllh nccnrncy tl::e long series of small operutions, necessitated by the peculiar difficulties, prescuted by the natl're of the locality. The hydrogrnpbicnl pnrt of the same locality was also intended to be begun, but ns it could not be at\ended to this yenr, it will form the first work for sounding vessels next' spring. 14. The extension of the secondary trinugularion over New Jersey, between the Ruri1011 bny, the Delnwure atid the seashore, for which the accurate first elements ure ~iven by the main triangulation, curried entirely to the same extent ; and from the southern line, stated above, for nil other works, was carried in advance of the main trinngnlntion the most tavornble points. 'I'his s1me operation has been continued this year more southerly, so as to lny out triangle!"> for futnrc extension. westerly, to join the head of the Chesapeake, inclncJing in its course the uortheru monu. ment~ of the so called Mnsou and Dixon':; liue. 15. It is well lrnown that the meridional part of this Mason and Dixon's line bus been npplied to conclnde 11po11 !he length of n degr1~e of I lie meriditm in that country and lati1ude: and tltnt the result' has been used, in former times, by European muthemnticinns, in their comparisons with the other measurements of degrees in different pnrts of the world, but gnve so 1111sntis. factory results ns to be always rejected. lt will, therefore, be of in1erest in the conrse of tho present survey, if ever possible lo verify the llleridionnl distance, by means of the trinn~ulution for the coast survey, 1111d 1lie lutitudes of the two end points, either by the same, or by new astronomicnl observntions. 16. The scientific ncconnt of the opcrolion being recorded in llrn trnns. actions of the London Philosophical Society, that pnrt cnn be eusily veri· tied. Bnt the monuments plilced 011 the grn11nd may, or may 1101, be found again in the old places, wi1h the nece~sury nccmncy to Wilrrant proper confidence. In the 1U'chivcs of the Stille of M11ryla11d .snch cloc11meuts. e:xist 11s mdy give u clew to desiguute the loculi1ies of 1'11.·111. Tber.,fore there have been already some researches mnde npon lite suhject, nnd the verbal ncco11111s of the perso11s living in the m~ighbnrhood m11y fully lead and dr.cide npon the upplication of tile diplomatic d11c1111w111s, that will be fouud to the locality when compared 11p1111 1he spol. Whnten:r nmy be the result, this investigation is of scientific ~ntere~t, nnd cnn, theri:fore, not. be pnsseu over u11inqnired or unverified iu u work liko the cua~t s1.uveyJ passing over the samP. gro1111d. 17. From some proper poi111s below Philndclphin. there will hi.' n brunch of the trian_gulntion corriPd on cnsterly towards lhe Sl'n, to jnin the topo. graphical works mudo nlong the seashore, Bn1w'gnt bny, &.c, l\S st;\ll.~d abov<', and also soullierly to Cope Moy uud Cupe He11lopm1, at whieh poi11t it wjJI be proper 10 join 11g11in borh these two series of trin11glcs. 18. '!'he place of' Cupe lkulopen fo~ht-honse must forlll· n point of the mnin triangnlntion, thonl!h lyin)! soumwliat out ol' it':! shnr1esi cnnrst~, to bind np and com11nre with nll accurucy, tlw res11lls of thn ln1ir11dc and longitude deterrniuntion~, mnde there 011 the occ11sion of tlw pus~ngc of Venns over the sun in 176!1; which i:oi nnolher sciontilic worlr, l'Xernrcd in that 11ei){hborhond in the Inst cr.n1nr\', 1111d n mnrn iutPrcstiug mw llmn the precedi11!!, it being gl~llerally comid,.r d au more nccnrutely l'Xl!Clllt'd. 19... Tliis summer the 111ni11 tri1lllg1rlation lms b1·e11 can!· d 011 1firo11gh Jer~ey, frQm the triangle points lyiug in the distdct of the works firsi

[ 15]
enumerated, southerly to the neighborhood of Philadelphia; ho\v far it mny be possible to continue it south of it, must, of course, depend npon the weather, which nt this time of the yenr is very unccrtnin. Over nil this disrrict the secondnry trilu1gnlntion must necessarily next y11nr be cnrriecl more into details, n11d the topogrnphical parties will also begin operations.in it. 20. The main trinngnlntion having been begun eurlier thi'3 year than the former, more stntions ol it hnve been executed, and it will be brought as soon ns possible, in following year~, to the hend of the Chesnpealte bny; tbe part ol the conntry thereby obtained will then present ngain n llystemntic mass of work, connected so as to form the elements of another series of maps and dnln for public11tion1 similar to the works now executed nnd nbove enumerated. 21. Tho results of tho whole work. in trinngulntion, topogrnphy, nnd hydrogrnphy, ns far as obtained, the end of Inst yenr, were Inst spring collected 'together in one map, upon the scale of Hlr'H , ns nlrendy noticed in my Inst report ns hegnn ; everv sepnrnto sheet ot woAc is there numuered, as it is in the register of the works, nnd its limits marked, so thnt any execution of mops, within the limits of tho work, can be guided by this preliminary in some measure tnngible register of the works; the same system is, of course, to he pllrsued in future. . 22. lt w1H be n specinl question to decide in each cnse of executing nny mnp from the coast survey works, npon whnt scale it. shall be execntedl. according to the different nims and purposes; this register map will in nl cnses give tho means to form npproprinte plnns upon that snbject, cnlcnlnte the size nnd position of the whole mnp or lhe sheets, or nny part of them. 23. During lhe coming winter the nssislunts will nguiu be occ 11piell M in the preceding ones, only the cnlculntions being of n somewhat different natnre, principally relnting to the systematic junction into oue body, of the results of the trigonometric operations thnt have been execnted ; nll the Call~ culutions nre nlwnys to bo made three-fold ; being now numerous, mnch of the lime of the nssistnnts will be nscd in it, nnd ns well this ns the rcdnc· tion of some of the works to ultimate maps for final execnlion, will occnsion to keep some of the nssistnnts engaged in these work, iusteud of in the field work. This nrrnngement is well appropriated to the work in its preseut singe, o.n<l, at the sumc limo, agrees with the state of the balance rernni11ing from the lust npproprit\lion, us it will postpone some of the expenses of the flold equipments. 24. 'rhis will make ready for any finnl execution for drawing, &c., the whole extent of tho coast n11d country ndjucent, from the New Jersey shore to the end of Rhode Island shore, in the topographical and in the hydrogt·nphicn.l parts. This part of the const, forming, in some mensnre, n wholo work by itself, cont11i11i11g nbout three tho11sn11d sqnnrc miles, will therefore be taken in hnml in1mediately, for final execution npon two different sc1\les, for the dif· fereut purposes, to which they must nn1u1·nlly sr1·ve in future. 25. The nmp ofthe buy and port of New Yorlc, which hns bP.cn especinlly mentin11ed Inst wi11ter, ns desired to ba publislrnd, forms nu esscntinl pnrt of this work, nnd will, of course, ho nttonded to the .fil'st; with this view, for which, arrnugements n1·e in progress. 26. A provision of the be!lt qt>nli1y of );trge drnwing pnper, npproprinted to our work from the mnnnfnctnry of Aunoirnny hns just been nunouuced 11.B having arrived in New York for our use.

[ l!J].

6

27. With the view to prepare for engrnving mnps, copperplates hnve been ord1!red in Vienna from Hnngnrinn copper, on nccnnnt of its best quality: these hnve jll!<t been nn1101111ce<l ns being 11ndur prepnrntion, and thnt they mny be expectPd in n few months: they will, therefore, certainly arrive before uctuul use will press for them. . ' 28. In respect to the nppropriation for the CClust survey,· to be proposed to Congress nt the next session, I have only to state that it will lie most ~conomicnl for the best progress of the work, thnt Cougress would pl1·11se to approprratr. $100,UOO, ns I had taken the liberty to propose Inst year, because it will be necesi-;ary to begi11 incurring specinl and new expt·nscs, for the arrangetnen1s nnd prnvisions required- for execnting final drawiugs, nnd bt>gin to engrnve. If the final appenrnnce of the maps, when pnblislwd, shall do justice to the trouble ~nd ex/i~nse incur:ed in tl~e snrve¥, the whole must come out of one systernnllc estn iltshmeul; from which nothmg should go out witlh1ut the stamp of the estublishment. 29. It is not proper, nor in foct possible, to sepnratc these works from the drawings consequent npon the coast survey ge11ernlly, hecnuse the works nnturnlly interlock in one another, so thnt no distinct uccon11t rn11 he kept, nor the works be detuched from the nssi:.-tnnts, who have worked ut thrm in their origin; there should, therefore, be applied for the final drnwiug the l'lecessnry preliminary expenses of different kind of engruvings, &c, such mone?s of the appropriation total ns may he needed, nnd the whole will enter into one mass ol expc11d1t11r1', like it is one system nnd map of worl\. 30. Except these estnblishm'.)nts, nnd 1he expenses which nmst 11ntnrnlly be incurred i11 consequence thereof, there will be no change i11 ttw nssistunts employed; nnd the generul arrangements 11nd org1111iz1ttiou of the work, 80 fhut it is expected the dimin11tio11 of some of' the field expenses, ns mcmtioued nbove, will 11ho11t cover the nddilions which the Inst two scclions show ns necessarily lo be added in the present stnte of tl1e work: this prese11ts n sh·ppi11~ over tn\~~ ils full fruition ut nn epoch of its ugc, shorter than I believe cun be slrn\\?h in other similar work. Upon lite construction of the standards oj weights anrl measures. 1. Since my last report npon these works, the~ fil ll sets of wcizhts for nil ·the custom houses have been delivered und distributed nccordi11g to their destinntion. 2. Weights had been prPpared to become, when stnndnr<lc<l, tho lwnvy ounce weights for the mints, to be grounded npon the sets of on nee weight~·, till to the one hundred 01111ce weight, which were delivered to the miut in Philndl'iphin, cnrly in 1838, as hos been reported npon in proper time. 'l'he mint hnving, in the menntime, co11strnc1cd morn 11ccurnte balances, desired for the sake of r.cceleration, to receive these weights in thnt 1111fi11ished stnte, nnd ndjnst them in their own estnhlishmrmt. This being granted by the 'l'rens11ry Depnrtment, the whole of the selfl, with their packing boxes, &c., complete, were delivetC'd to the director of the mint nt Phil11d1~lphi11, and also the benm of un nnfi11ishrd brass bnlc1nce, of lnrgc size, which lrnd been begnn, and which they were in need of, to assist in the adjust mPtJt of the weights delivered. 3. The principal attention in the wny of ndjnstmnnt of slondnr<ls this year, W1ls pnt upon the numerous yards ready for it, n tnsk which it is impossible to make hasty, and which requires in nil cases continued und very

'1

[ 16]

1'11tigning npplicntion; mnny thonsnnds of microscopic observntions nre req111rcd for it. ')'he sprciulhies of these minuted pnrts of the work belong rnther to nu ullimntc full nccouut of nil the mel\ns nnd methods employed in Ille exeru1io11 of the wholt: tnsk of the cstnblishment of the stnndnrd· which i1 will th('n be proper to publish, nnd <.listribute on Government nc· co1111t, likt~ n similur nccount of the works of Mr. Bessel, of Koi1igsberg1 for the estublishment of 11 stnndnrd length mensure1 has been publishe<l lately by the Government of Prussia. 4. 'l'ho fodiug lever nppr.ratus, which Professor Bessel hns clirected to be mnde for this estnblishmcut, nt Berlin, he hns lntely nnnounclld to me .as bl.'iug 11eurly 1·endy 1 so thnt it mny perhnps yet l\l'rive beforl-l the final delivery of tho ynrds. This woulcl uffol'cl Llitt opp11rl1111ity of ~slnblisl1iug some corupnrisons by two mnthods1 by the niicroRcopes, t111d by tho lever, which would be the more desirable, us the latter is inteuded to remain 'in the esta\.ili:,;hmcnt for fnt11re nse in comparisons. 5. A 11dmber of ynrds sufficieut to furnish nil the Stntcs nre rendy; bni it is not proper to deliver them ns yet, us it will tend to moro nccurn\e coiucide11ce, to co111b111e more numerous cornpnrisous, under u vancty of temperntun.is, and with d1ffernnt me11ns. Besides the original stnntlard scule of eighty-two inches, described ill the reporl, upon tfH} comparisoQ of tl1e weights 11ncl measures of the custom.houses, various other sets of micrm=cnp1c arrangements were coustrnctecl, and conslnutly employed, whereby 11lways l\ number of compnrisous ure curried on aL the so.me time. , 6. The form of the yards is that which hns heen formerly nlreudy mentio1wd, as best adnpted for, tho preservntion of their ncc:urncy; the yurdi; bPiug cnt to n len!{lh, in o.bout the half.breadth of u strong brass bnr, n11d li11iug between 1he b111ti11g pieces at both ends of n simil~r bar of e1J1ml thick1iess, which it. fills exactly, so thnt wheu joi ued they foriu ouo pi<~r:e, u11d uuthiug can ever touch the ends, which determine the c~nct le11g1h ; this um\11g-ement presents evidently two different me11ns of nscer1ai11i11g the length of the yt\rd to the nicest; but it sllot.ld bo u1ed only wheu it is <.lesired to give the leugth of other ynrds that urn iuteudud to Ji1rm again sta11d11rrl$. For tho tr11nsfer, of the ynrd for common pnrprn-cs, there is n speci1\\ decimully dividcu length ot u yurd trnced upon the outer piece of the yard, or matrix, hc·twcen two pnrullcl lines. A truci11g 11rra11gc111011t iH gh·en wi1h i1, by which 111cn11s, tlte ynrd being left 11uoisturhed i11 its prnpnr pince, iu the box lilted for it, n bar of metnl 7 or Wllod, for which I\ location is m1ufo par1\lld 10 the yard, c1m he laid off und suhtfividl'd, witltout in 1tny wny i11J11l'ing the originnl; the nse of this will be described in n statement to he udded, ns instructious nt the delivery of tlw ynr<.ls. My assistant worke<.I ut u consideruble uumber of these divisi1111~, 11111il in1crrnptetl by sickness. 7. Of the liquid cnpncity mc:nsnres the fnll number is finished, until to tlwir adjnstmont, which requires their heiug weighed tilled with dis· tilled w11tcr, 11t tile tnrnpcrature of the mnximnm density of water, which is n most tcdio11s 11nd miun1c, therefore 11ot very quick <'perntio11. For the nse in it a spccinl hnlnnce has been constructed. Their actual adju~truc11t will b<'g'in immedintelr after thnt of the ynrds, when the orra11gcmP11ts which it requires wil be completed. H1mdles of n pecnlinr const1;11ction, to tnke off n11d pnt on, nre constructed for their ew.ier m1mip· ulaliou iu u::;e, without churgiug in the weighing.

[ 15]

8

8. As it is necessary to close the ·tops of the \l'nses exactly nt the proper height, to contain n determined weight of distilled water, nt n givE>n temper11mre, in a giveu cubic :.ip11ce of 11 brass vessel, it is necessary thnt this vessel be exactly covered, no nir bubbles admitted in it, and no overflO\Ving; to effect thnt, glnss plates nre required, exncdy plane, of proper thickness, ground, unpolished on the side which touches the liquid, and of the size of each vessel's top; only large plnte glass factories cnu procure these good; to construct them expressly would ho.ve necessitated u grent estnh· lishment, different in its kind from all thnt is now in the establishmcut, therefore these plates have been ordered nt the mnnufnctory of plnte glass of St. Gnu bin, where. they can be made wilh ense; which hns estnblishcd ·arrangements for such works, and cnn execute them nt short notice, and with proper accuracy; they will, besides, cost a great den! less thnn in nny other wny. 9. The half bushels require n mnrmer of casting different from thnt of the. other parts of the work, which tnkes also more time nnd special cares ; it hns been in full operation, us much as possible ; bnt this casting cannot be made in our establishment at nll seasons of the year with eqnnl success, and will, therefore, suffer tem?ornry interruptions ; during which other cilstin~s are executed. Some of these half bushels hnve nlso been turned; but it 1s evident thnt in the proper order of the work, there could not yet be any attempt towards their adjustment. The glnss plates, thnt sho.ll serve to cover them, hnve been ordered, together with those for the capacity measures for liquids for nil of them: the proper size has been given to the factory for guide. · 10. Thus it appears thnt the different tnsks of the establishment for standard weights and measures have advanced properly, ench in that proportion which the kind nnd the qunlity of the work they reqnire, intlico.te naturally us the time reqnired for their execmion. 'l'hc weights being already fnllyexecuted nnd delivered, except the ounce weightR for the Stntt~s, have mnd.c known in the country what is to be expected from the establishment, nnd have, I believe, given general sntisfuction, which I doubt not every part of the works will give, whenever it appears before the public.
STATION OF WILLOW GROVE,

PemzB'!Jl'DU1,ia1 November 16, 1839.

F. R. HASSLER.

