Sl5th

CoNGKlilll,

2d St:ssion.

[ Doc. No. 454.

J

Ho. o:r

R11:PR. ,

Treas. Dept.

QB
STAND ARD WEIGHTS.

£,2Aftr

,Us
I g3g

LETTER

THE SHCRETARY OF THE TREASURY,.
'rRANBMITTJNa

'

.9 report of F. R. Hassler, upon the subject of Standard Weights

the United States, c$-c.

for:.

JULY

4, 1838.

Read, and laid upon the table.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, July s, 1838. Sm: For the information of the House of Representatives, I have the honor to transmit herewith a report made to this Department by F. R. Hassler, Esq., superintendent of the work for the fabrication of standard weights and measures. He represents that complete sets of standard t11eight.<i for the respective States of the Union have been prepared, and are now ready for delivery, and gives directions as to their use. This work has been done as directed by the joint resolution of Congress,_approved the 14th of June, 1836, as follows: "Resolved, That the Secretary of the Treasury be, arid he hereby is, directed to cause a complete set of all the weights and measures adopted as standards, and now ~ither made or in the progress of manufacture, for the use of the several custom-houses and for other purposes. to be deliv· ered to the Governor of each State in the Union, or such person as he may appoint, for the use of the States respectively, to the end that a uniform standard of weights and measures may be established through· out the Union." Immediate notice will be given to the Executive officers of the States, in order that their directions may bo obtained as to the person and mau· ner of their delivery. / The superiutendent is actively engnged in the preparntion of the measures of capacity and length, also referred to in the resolution ; and when completed, and ready for delivery, the course pointed out by Congreas will be duly complied with in regard to them. All which is respectfully submitted. LEVI WOODBURY, Sec'ry of the 7reaa'g. Hon. J. K. PoLX, Speaker Ho. of Reps.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387

2

[ Doc. No. 464:.

J

Report to the Treasury Department of the United States, upon the construction and completion of the standards of weights for all the States · of the Union, by F. R. Hassler.
I have the honor to inform you that l have completed the execution of the first part of the joint resolution of both Houses of Congress of the 14th of June, 1836, namely, the construction of the uniform standards of weights for all the States, and that the same are now ready for delivery. Each set of weights for one State consists of the following weights : One 1 pound, troy One 5 pounds, avoirdupois One 1 do avoirdupois One 10 do do One 2 do do One 20 do do One 3 do do One 25 do do One 4 do do One 50 do do It is easily seen how 100 pounds, &c. can be combined by their means, when desired. The first eight weights are <!Ontained in one box, the last two in another, and they are together fitted again into one box for transportation. The inner boxes are lined with velvet, and each weight has its special cavity, which cannot be mistaken. In the bottom of it, the value of the weight is marked. The tops of the boxes are screwed down, with knobs, upon brass rods, which guide the cover; they keep the upper part tight, so as to prevent all shaking of the weights by transportation. · Upon the weights themselves, only a light stamp of an eagle is made, to denote the authenticity of the weight-(the small figures stamped upon many being o~ly references to the private register of the weighings referring to our journals.) · It is a subject of great gratification to me to have been enabled, in the short time of two years, to execute a task which has been so much and so long desired in the country, to the extent that each State becomes a.t once simultaneously, and equally supplied with these standard weights; by which, of course, the anomalies unavoidable in simple copying (which would have been the consequence of a partial delivery) is avoided; thu~, security of uniformity is established for the future, provided the proper care is taken for their preservation, and the preventing of accidents, ac· cording to the instructions which I shall join hereto. ' The pref aration of the metal for these standards, and the mode of their mechanica construction, have been stated already in some of my 11evera.1 ,pr~vious communications. ·The method of combined weighing, which I have described in .my report of November last, as applied to the mint-weights, has been equa.lly applied to these weights for the States, in their ultimate adjustment, up to the 50~lb. weights, which it was not convenient, nor necessary, to treat in the same manner. The accuracy which this method of weighing affords has been shown in the report quoted; and I can add to it only, that it has been obtai1,1ejf uot only proportionally, but even almost identically the same in all the ·larger weights of these standards. · To be enabled to produce these results, in weights of the size of those required for the sets of standards, it was necessary to construct, in the establishment itself, appropriate balances, of large size .and peculiar ·construction, with an accuracy and strength far superior to what has ever

[Doc. No. 454. ]

3

been habitual. Brass beams of two, somewhat considerable, dimensions, supported upon metal columns, and with peculiar arrangements, have afforded the most satisfactory results; and the desired acceleration in the final adjustment has been the consequence of it. But the assiduity and attention required are such, that the persons employed in the mechanical part of the weighing of the larger weights were more than once entirely exhausted by the long.protracted task. All those standard weights have been adjusted by myself, personally, which have served for tho establishment of the multiples; and always such individuals were selected as would produce, by their sum, the fullest exactitude of the intended large weights. Of all and every operation of weighing regular journals were kept, in which each individual weighing, as well as the detailed results, rwere registered us soon as made, so that they might serve in future for any investigation that could be found desirable; similar to the habit in astro. nomical observation made in nn observatory, and us I practise in all the operations for the coast survey. To determine the avoirdupois pound from the troy pouud, (which is the only British standard, adopted as such, and made with proper au then· ticity,) was again an operation, in some respects, similar to that which I had to perform for the system of ounce weights. The awkward ratio of 5,760 grains for tho troy pound, to 7,000 for the avoirdupois pound, renders its determination very precarious, when done by means of tho grain weights, quoted in the legal statement, as there is no easy common divider between the two numbers; in fact; I believe that, in England itself, tho habitual execution of this proportion is not regarded with much confideuce. A similar inference might already be drawn from the fact made apparent in my report upon standard comparisons, in 1832, page 30, in the last column of the table; where I deduced the value of the pound avoirdupois that would result from each of the standards of the State Department, which are furnished with full parch· ment documents, stating their veracity, &c., it will be seen that the pounds deduced from the different weights vary differently between 6997.9.S grains and 7001.1 grains, (in the extremes,) expressed in mint-weights; and, for instance, the 28 lb. differs for 24~ grains, and 56 lb. for 93, frotn their legal nominal value. The two avoirdupois pounds procured from England did not p1·esent fully the desired ratio, nor did they agree with each other, within such a limit as I could lll't easily discover the difference. Having established the weight of the ounce, and its subdivisions aud multiples, from the troy pound, by the method of combinatory subdivisions, and ultimat0 verification, by combined weighing, (as related in my report of last November,) in such a manner as to reduce the possii)le differences or anomalies to the smallest possible, I considered myaelf better able to establish an avoirdupois pound of the true legal ratio than the weights received from London, as such, were representing: their difference, besides, indicated already the propriety of relying rather upon the means, which I had established upon good prmciples, than upon the servile copying of either, or the taking of a mean between the two. Other experiences, moreover, indicated to me the propriety of such a course in the settlement of this question, which is evidently left too much in the vague, by the law giving no rule of easy following, by which to establish the avoirdupois pound from. the actual standard, the troy p"Ound.

4

[ Doc. No. 454. ]

. · The troy pound which I had brought from Europe with me already in 1805, had, at that time, been found exactly equal to that of the mint of Philadelphia, received by authority from England. The new troy pound, of which an authentic copy had been procured for the same mint, proved, according to my comparison, (of which I rendered accou11t in 1832,) to exceed this old pound of mine, which t)as been always carefully preserved, by 241 grains; a difference equal to the mean between the deviations discovered by Sir George Schuckburg, in 1796, and that which had been found, almost simultaneously with me, by Dr. Mall in Utrecht. 'l'hese, and, I suppose, other similar facts, proving that the Dritish mint. weights were too light, a declaration to that efff!ct took place in England, by authority, depreciating the coins made before 1828, for the value of one and a half grain of the precious metal they should represent. The troy pound which I had prC'cured from Troughton and Simms, of' London, when I began thr. construction of standards, proved to agree exactly with the one of the mint-declared standard for the United States by act of Congress, in 1828. But a second troy pound, procured about a year ago, proved so much lighter that I found it not proper to put any reliance upon it. I found best to start, for all weights what<'Ver, from the unique weight, which I had found coincident with that of the mint, and to use my resnlts of the ounce weights, and their subdivisions, as deduced from the combined weighings, upon which I considered myself authorized to lay more confidence, for the estahllshment of the other weights. Another a,ccessory circumstance is, that the weights which I received after the first troy pound have large letters nnd other iudications engraved upon them, which collect al ways more or less dui;t, or soil, and render it uncertain under what circumstances in that respect they may have been determined, or under which they may be at the time l would use them; for it must be observed that the rubbing for cleaning in the cavity is not admissible, as it would easily take more weight away than (I mny be allowed to state that) any of my weights can deviate from the truth. A slight rubbing with an oiled leather, as otherwise had been considered allo\vable for cleaning weights, I have found to alter them far more than I ever allowed standard weights to differ. To adopt the grain weights from England for the completion of the difference between the pound troy and the pound avoirdupois, I considered inadmissible, on account of the accumulation of the small errors that may occur in their construction. I used only one forty grain weight to ·make up the ultimate complement to the avoirdupois pound; this was ·one equally verified by combinatory weighing. Considering myself thus fully authorized to stand upon my own ground in the establishment of a proper avoirdupois ptmnd, that would have the due ratio to the troy ·pound, as stated by law, I established the standard avoirdupois pound by the following weights: 1. 2. 3. 4. Simms's troy pound, affording One two-ounce weight, of my construction One half-ounce weight of the same One forty-grain weight, determined by combination Making the total avoirdupois pound Grain·.

5,760 960
240 40

7,000

f Doc.

No. 464; ]

· With this I compared again, by combined weighing, three different combinations of the ounce weights, and I included the avoirdupois pound received from London, and marked A, which was nearest coinciding with my results for the ounces, adding for its defect as deduced from determinations, which I had previously made. Thus I obtained five weights, to verify by combined weighing, which established by their mutual confirmation the standard avoirdupois pound, which I adopted, and upon which, therefore, also, the heavier weights are grounded, by combining an adequate and selected number of them. By these methods and combinations I hope that I have obtained a degree of accuracy fully satisfactory. and superior to whatever may be considered as of influence in any practical use of these standards.

F. R. HASSLER.
WAsmNGTON CITY,

June 26,

1838.

Instructions 1·elating to the use of the standard weights.
1. Never tonch the weights with the hand, in any case whatsoever. 2. The weights arc to be lifted out and in their places, and in any case

of their being moved, by means of the fork, or hook, covered with leather, which are added to the boxeR for that purpose, and fitting the different weights. 3. When the weights are taken out of the box, they must always be placed upon clean white paper, that they may not become scratched or soiled; as well when placed on a balance as otherwise. 4. The whole collection must be kept in a safo and dry place, free from all disturbances or danger of damage. . 5. They must never be moved away from under the care of the offl.cer under whose charge they are, to any other building or place, to make comparisons ; but any weights to be compared must be brought to the place of deposite of the standards, to undergo the comparison. 6. To make a good comparison, the weight standard must be placed in one of the basins of the scales, and in the other must be put any heavy bodies. to make exact counterpoise to the same; when thus an exac~ equilibrium is obtained, the standard weight is removed, and in its stead the weight to be compared is placed. Whatever may have to be added to the weight compared, for so much it is too light; whatever may be needed to add to the counterpoise, will indicate the weight compared so much too heavy. 7, That the utmost caution is to be observed in the use of the weights, will be self-evident. In all cases the weights must not be left exposed to the open air, when not absolutely necessary. s. As the standard weights have all their proper legal weight, it is proper to observe, that, in comparing rough weights for common mercantile use, there ought always to be a certain allowance made for the wear of such weights in their use, by an overweight proportioned to the magnitude, the kind of use the weight is intended for, and the usage which it may ha~e to withstand ; us, after a while such weights would otherwise too soon become too light, and deviate too much from the accuracy that may be wished in them: by this allowance they remain longer near enough to the desired accuracy before needing new adjustment. 9. The value of each weight is marked upon a paper fastened to the

( Doc. No. 464. ]
bo.ttom of its plac.e in the box, (in preference of etarnping it upon the weights,) so that the removal of the weights can never disturb them, the fitting of the weights not admitting of their being misplaced. It is only to be observed that these papers must never be removed. 10. The boxes are expressly made without locks; the cover must be lifted up straight, as the brass bars at the sides direct. When the weights are in, the cover must be screwed down tight to its place, by means of the four-finger screw-knobs. F R. HASSLER.

25th CoNGltE:ss, 3d Session.

[ sgNATE.]

(4]

HE PORT
FIWM

THE SECRET.Alt¥ OF

'l'H~

'rREASURY,

1'nANSMIT'rlNG

A report / rom t!te superintcnr,lent nj tlw coast survo!/, and of tlio f abrication of standard weights and nieasurcs, s!towiug tltc progress in those works duri11.!{ tltc presunt year-. '
6, 1838,

DECEMBF.lt

Rend, nnd ordt'rcd to he printed.

'I'RI~ASURY DEPARTMENT, December 61 183~.

l::lm ~ l hnvc the hon9r, herewith, respectfully to transmit to the Senate n. rflport mode to 1nc by Mr. F. R.. I fassler, superintendent o( tha co11St survey nnd of the work for the fabrication of standiird weights nnd meas.~ t1n·.s, exhibiting thG progress mnde in said works during the preaent yenr. I Jmve the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

LEVI WOODBURY,
Secretary of the Treasury. To the Hon. WM. R. Kl NG, President of tho United States Srmate .

---·.

SrnINGFJELD MouNTAJN S·.rA'l'lQN,

Novembtr 15, 1838. Sm: Herewith I have tho honor to forwnrd to you the yearly report upon the works under my charge, of the survey of the COl\St nnd the constrnction of standards of weights nnd measures. 'l'he progress made in both works will, I have every renson to hope, be sntisfoctory. As both hnve yielded considerable results, nnd being now in regnla.r orgnnizntion a.nd activity, they will continne in future in such regular steps us will become easier cnlculable beforehnnd, if the whole organization is now mniutniued as it is. Upon this view, the proposition of the npproprintion necessary for the con.st survey is grounderl, ns 'deduced iu tho report. 1 ho.ve ovory reason to hope that tho amount proposed will be granted, as it is evidently the most advantageous for the economy nnd good progress of the work. The increl\se of the llpprnpriation ewer the nmonnt asked Inst yenr is properly Biii.Tf &. ti.Ives: printers.

[ 4]
accounted for by the unexpectedly increased expenditure for the shipping which occurred last season. This fall appears to turn out very nnfnvornhlc for my works, hy too much had weather, so that I may, perhaps, be obliged lo break up earlier than I intended, and join the winter work in Washington. I have tlie honor to be, with perfect respect and esteem, sir, your obedient servant, F. R. HASSLER. Hon. Levi Woonnunv, Secretary of the Treasury of t!tc U. S.

8cvcnth report of F. R. Hassler, as superintendent of t!te surve?J of the coast of the United States, and of the construction of sta11dardF of weights arid measures; rendering accounts of tlw wurks of 1838.
l. Jn my lust report, (the 6th,) I have stated what were the works which, in the proper regular course of progress, were to be executed this year. They have been prosecuted in nil parts with snccess, to the full extent which could be expected, though the latter part of the season hns not proved so favorable as the earlier pnrt. 2. 'fbe standard weights for the States being so near their completion at .the opening of tho season lust spring, that I could expect 10 deliver them before the end of the last session of Congress, I considered it the best use of my own time, to finish this mneh desired task. 3. This task, accomplishecl within the time of the session, notwithstanding the delny occasioned by my severe sickness, which intervened, l hnvo had the pleasure to report upon separately, nndcr the 26th June Inst. 4. As soon as various arrangements nnd works, relating to the great theodolite, employed in the coast snrvey, required for its more fnvornblo use in the mixed astronomical observations, und other minor works for the equipments of the different parties in instruments, were completed, I left Washington for the fieldwork of the mnin triangulation, notwithstandinf? the bad state of health, to which I had been reducfld by the excessive neat. Falling again in severer sickness in Phjlndelphia, l could not reach the station of Weazel mountain until 1st of September, still sick, but grndunlly recovering to health. 5. Upon this station were to be mode observations of azimuths and lntittsdes, which I considered necessary, to multiply these dntn, so important in works of the nature of tho coast snrvev, the moment appeared so much more opportune, as the solar eclipse of the ·18th September guve at the same · tiime an opportunity for a good detcrmination of the longitude nt the same place. For the execution of all these tasks, which cannot be done to the best ndvantnge by one observer Rlo11e, I took two of my assistants to me, ;from their ot·her works. All was executed properly, notwithstanding considernble contrariety by bad weather, which of course delayed our stny upon that station proportionally. 6. T.hese nssistnnts hnve returned to their work at the secondary trinniguhiti.on, and I continue my own works on stations of the main triangula·tion, as long ,as the season mny allow me ·any fnvornblo chance.
0

[4]
7. The present settled stnte· oft ho main triangulation, in the considerable extent which it now hns, ndmits to AXt:md the secondary tfiRngulntion to some di~tnnce outside of its two extremities. Among the triangle poi11ts obtoined by this menns, the most fnvornbh~ ones thell be selected fol' stations of the mnin trinngul1ttion, which mnst exteutl over them, and which furnishes to them in -due ti mo, the fnll nccnrnte clements of thefr cnlcnlntion~ as fnndamentnl dntn for their npplicntion to tho topographical nnd hydrogruphicnl part of tho work. 8. Thus the sccondnry triangulation has been co11linued this yHar, southerly in New Jersey und Pe1111sylvanin, for the olnmeuts of the tletnil snrvoys of the Delnwnre, the outer &ca shore, nud Bttmcgat bay, towards Cttpe May, nnd those neighborhoods. !:I. In like manner the secondnrv trinn~nlation to tho enst of tho main lines, bet.ween 1'nshnn, Friarshencl, nnd Moimt Cnrmel, enst of New Hnve11, n11q New ;London, lllls been completed, and extended unril ovor the Rhqde Island shore, &c., on the tnllin, nnd over nil the islands, between the ea.st of Long island 011d the mnin shoro. 10. 'l'he task of tho topogmphical p1trtios for this yonr WM, ns nllnded ti> in my lnst report, the con1inuation of the detnil snrvoys, easterly from where they left off tho . yen!' hefor0. which was stated in tll~ last report. A. 'T'o the end of Lon~ island, ns well on thci sen shore, ns on the shoro of Long Island srrnnd, wi.th all the interior, to Montnnk point, the easter· most extremity of Long h1l11nd 1 and ovt-r nil tho nnmerons islnnds and hays within nnd ncnr uorth of it, till l·'islwr's islaud, inclnsive. This has hec11 fully nncl properly cxecntcd by ·the fivo topogrn;)hicnl parties thut w11ro engngccl in it. B. · Upou the northern shore of Long hland sound; in Conucctirnt: &c., five other parties were t'ngngod in the topogr:iphy of the shore, which wus fully cxer,ntctl until to thn 11eighuorhootl o! Stoniugton. . C. All thnt wns rrq11ired to "furnish conRtantly the necessary directions for the sonndiug parties, tllllt follo1Ved the shores of the so11tH.l, 111H.l the sen shore of Long faland, was by nil th.~se parties nlwnys rcgnlarl}' provided, bc~'idcs the topography; snmc pnl'ts o! the interior within tlw limits of the triangnlntion \\·ore nlso surveyed in tho snmL~ mauncr, lr.nving only, like in the 'previo11s workl'l, for their fnt11rc task, thnt filli11;r up lietweim these works n11d the i11tcrior part of the main trinngulntio11, which the aim and plnn of tho works require. . 11. Two hydrngrnphicnl ptntiel'l wcrc ngain in opcrntion Inst season, but they hnd r.11ch nn ndditionnl vc~!'el, lnrger thnn thosr. they h:1d beforn, one of which was purposely bnilt for its 11im, nud mnployt:d iu I .ong Islund . som1cl, the of hr.r a reve1111e C"l1tter, wltich was used 11 pon the ontside coast . .,,. 12. 'rhese oxpnnses, of bi1ilding, 1t11d fitting np, of these vessels, nnd others, occnsioned by this incronse of tho nnvul pnr1, hnviu!! not b~rm for~· secu nt tile time of my Inst report, nml the forming- of tho estimate ol the 11cces~ury npprnpritttion, they havo of c0nrso encrnci.clwd upon it in n mun· nC'r, nnd to nn nmourJt,.tlwt (could not bP. awnrc of in dno time. 13. '!'ho one ot thm;e hydrngrnphicnl parties co11tin11ed the soundings of the ontsit.lc shor'l of Long islur1<.l 1 ns for off ns to forty folhoms so111HJing, fro111 oust of Firo Islnnd bench, where the earliest ontside sonndings hud begun, till to Montnuk point, tho enst<~rn extremity ol' Long bl1111d, o,nd inside of it, over Gnrdner's bay, which lies betweeu the Long islnud shore, nud the i!:"lamls stretch in:.?; northensterly townrds the rnniu shore, iucluding the southern shores of ·thrsc islands.

mny

i/'

[ 4]

4

14. The other hydrographic party continued from the points where it had left off last year, about the middle of Long Island sound, easterly to Black point on the main, nnd Oyster Bay point, on one of the islands of Gardner's bay, that is nearly to tlrn extremity of the sou11d; which, however, could uot fully he reached, on account of the closing of the season, themucb greater breadth.of the eastern part of the sound, increasing the work witnin an equal distance much over thnt of nn equal distance of the westem part of the souud, so that th13 part bctwee11 some of the islands above alluded to, and the main shorr, will remnin for the work of next year. 15. It is well known thnt all sen charts must be provid(~d with regular and accurate views uf the aspect of the shores, upon proper scales, from the principal points of npproaching harbors, and thei1· difforent channels: of the Jight-honses, and also from n11y dnngerous point from which the shore can he sern. rro the two iirst of those the seu.man has rec0nrse to asce:-tain what lanu he has made, aud the latter shnll warn him from u shoal or a rock, upon which lw may come. 16. Such views I intended last full to cause to be bcgn11, of the part of the coal'lt now surveyed, between Long Branch, Ne\V Jersey, nnd Block island, el\.st of Long island, b11t it was delnyed un1il in the foil in order not to delay the progress of the out·~l10re sonndings, by the delay unavoidably required, to stop ut one point, ns Joni.; us is required for the drnwing of these views. But the season prov1~u too unfavorable, and it liad neccssurily to be postponed lllllil next spriurr, . 17. '!'here hus Imm no occi1;ion to make nny nlteration in Ilic scientific means, am! methods, employed Jor the work: from those ernployed in the origin; on the co11tra:ry, l hitd the plc!ttsUJll to observe in varions Emopeuu accounts upon me thous now used iu obsei ving, the approach made towards my methods, (explained iu my papers 011 the earliP8t works of the const survey of 1817,) iu whatever th1·y applied to the peculiar circumstances, under which the observt!rs were. 'l'he interest taken in the coast snrvey by men of science in Europe has shown itself by vnnous proser.ts of books, and commnnicntions by leticr, to mo. (wliicli I continue to receive,) treating nnd discussing snbjects of interest for till~ work. A\~·o in thi:o; country the interest in our work evidently iucreuscs with its progress, us it shows always more nppnrontly its public utility. 18 ~rhe mechanical orgnnizatio11 of the distribution of the works appears to be well adapted to its present state, a11d it will co11ti1J11r. to hr. suili· cient until the work may come i11to imch parts of the country ns must occasiou a great increuse of topog-rapl1ical work, nnd thereby perhaps an increase of .the pl~netnb!e snrveying par1ies. In that proport~on ns tl!is may occur, m tliiU \viTtoTi11ie contrary tlie qnval, or hydrograph1r.al, parties be Jess occnpied. 'l'his will give thH proper time for thn iuvcstigntion of soundings, if nny, nt a greutPr dbtn11ce from the coa1<1, und of tlrn vnrions currents along the coast, which appear very impc~rfectly k11ow11 by the public, and only partially so, hy tile loc1il co:1sters, in tlw pnrts to wliid1 they nre tho most ba!Jituuled. All t/Jesn t11sks being dictaled by tlw law for tbe coast survey, 1111d irnturally irnplieu iu tho work. 19. A considerable in1mber of a:;!>istants will bo occupied. during the coming wiuter, hy the great mass of cnlculatio11s, for which tlw clements nre no·w ut hand, and ·those which are req11irod for the prop<~r extcpsio11 of the unxiliary tables necessary for tile i11crnnsed extent of the work. 'l'o

5
thes~

[4)

works, I .shnll, however, not be. able to direct them, beio1'C their work, of es:ecuting the druwitig-s of their fieldworks of the Inst season, will be finished; whid1 order dictntes to be the first, uud uupostponl\ble, winter work. 20. As much ns the time will allow ufter lhnt, J shall direct the bringiu~ together of the whole trinngulntion hitherto mude, upon sur.h u scale as might serve to prepare for ibe fott1re puulicalion, wlie11 the proper mnss of woi;k will be folly nt hand; at thnt time I shall then !Juve the honor to propose nlso the proper meusnres, aud tbe necessary aqangomeuts, to secure the nccurnte execution of thnt pnrt, upon which so much depends, not to loso in it tbc accuracy aud µ-nod execution given to.the scientific purt of the work. Last spring nlreudy n prelimiuury sketch of such u collection of data was hegnn, to serve us guide, so far as it could then be extended. 21. With regard to lhc appropriation desirable to bu proposed to Congress for the next yl'nr's work5 1 l must take the liberty to state sevm·al fuels in support of the proposition which 1 lrnve to mnke : 1st. The uuexpectecl i11creaf'le of expc11se iu vessels will not lenve any remainder of thfl lust appropriation fol' the outfit of the different parties 11ext spring; however, the upproprintion will, most likely, be mnde before this will lie ueedcd, the sessiou of Congress being: u short 011e. 2d. Out of the uppropriation to be ri1ade will linve to be provided for two outfits, namely, those of hoth coming springs, on nccouut of the succeedi11g session of Congress being ngnin a loug one, urn] some udditionnl expenses occur 1111avoi<lably every year ut thnt period. It is tlrns tlmt last spring, to assist in stretching out of the remaining amount of the appropriation, ut least. in whnt I cnnld, us I conic.I 11ot go iuto the field nntil much lt1ter tbau the topographical parties, I allowed those pnrties to take the wholo field eqnip111e11t belonginif to my party, which had to be repluced when I weut myself iuto the field. 'rhis yeur a g:reat pnrt of the tents have been toru up entirely by the violent storms, which have 11mtlo much heavier ruva~cs among tl~e shipping, und even buildings; (my ccuup, however, rcccivetl uot the slightest d1unugc.) :3d. The pr(;sent extent of shipping will most likely hilve to ho continued next )'l'ar as has b1ic11 tliis ynar; cot~scquently, cLlso, the same increase of expense, ir uot more, by the perltnps ncccssury exchnngc of somo vessels for larger ones. 4th. Sevttrul of the nssistnnts ut lower compensations have this year liberally giveu their services afll chiefs of plauetuble parties, withont tho betterment of their cornpnu~atiou, which is proper, nnd which others in similuf stations have; it will, thercli1re, be proper, at least for tho future, to place tlwm, ill ll1is resp<'ct, 11lso 11pon the same footiug as others w)io do similar <luty. Also thn compensatious of scverul othet: a::isistauts it will be proper to iucreasn. uth. Tho prnpor acluptntion of the 1mmucr of assistants to the quantity of the work to lie performed ynnrly, h.as :-;hown itself by tho closeness with which my i11timntions, in my Inst report, of the wori· to be performed the last season, has ngrced with tho work riclnally executed, ns hus been thu case nlready the year before. This prove~, nt the same time, the proper adnptntio11 of the present slttte of the cstnblishrnent to tltc most economico.l proi;ecution of' the work, ns neither gnp 11or <louble employ occms, und thll proper quantity of work is do110.

[ 4)

6

~till remain as a guide to estimate the me~ium expense of each pnrty, and

6th. The detail estimates presented in one of my earlier ,reports mny

is therefore nee<llel!ls to be repented here ngn111. · 22. Upon tliese considerations, and the gcneml knowledge of the requisites of the work, I take the liberty to propose that Congress might plcr1se to grant an appropriation of $100,000, for the expenses of the cm1st survey for the coming year. If it should occur that soruething of it should nOt be needed, it would of course remain uncalled for, and be taken into account in estjmnting the next following appropriation, as I hnvo done in the preceding years, in which the case has heretofore occurred; while its disposability, at all events,. secures the work from interruption, which would be of very far greater loss, in nil respects.

Upon the we;gltt and measure standarding.
23. After the completion of the standards of weights for the Sta,tes, the gradual approaching of the yards to their proper length wns immediately begun. This operation requires reiterated leaving off' and returning to the work, if it shall be done with accuracy, because, if tbe metal of the stnndnrds of length is 11ot given sufficient time to cool down to the proper temperuture of comparison, it will be judcred t<io Jong, by the iuflnencn of the overreaching temperature; then n further reduction heing npplicd, 11po11 this deceiving indication, the cnso would occ~1r, which I have qnntcd and proved in my report of 1832, in respect to the brass metre cories, wh ieh I ~ound all too short; n fact in which nlso nstronomer Bessel, of Koenigsberg, in a lettr.r lately received from him, found my statement fully correct. -24. The further alternate comparisons and reductions will ho continncd nnd extended at first lo such a number as will bring this part of the work parallel with the weight standards hitherto delivered, namely, sufficient for all the Stales and the principal custom houser.; hut it is evident, by the above stntement, that it would be prepostf'rons to name any nccnrately specified time, nearer than beginning of next summer, when this task will be fully executed, so much the more ns n grcnt part of it falls npon me personally, who bnve n multitude of other works to attend to besides. 25. Also the stnndarding of large weights for the custom I 1onscs has been continued ngnin, grounding upo.11 t.he inferior weig:hts) wbi~h I had pre· pared for the purpose of this work 111 general. 'I'l11s part will thence progress regularly, with no other interruption than tho extrPme fot i:zue of the task, by the close atlention it req11ires, will necesl>itnte. 'l'hey may be delivered grndnnlly in proportion ns n cerlnin number of sets triny be finished. 26. The mechanicnl pnrt of the work for the capacity measures for liqnids is about entirely done. The multiplicity of the othr,r works, nnd wn11t of rootn; before the extension obtnined only nbont a mo111h ugo, have hitherto prevented any nttemrt to standard ·nny cnpncity measures. Jn tile new locality acqnircd I shall make proper arrangements for tho necessary works. · 27. The construction of th·J half bushel, as dry capacity standard, has been begun, nnd will progress in its ref..rular ronrse. 28. The tnsk of furnishing each State with npproprinte bnlnnccs, lilrn those used in the office: for tbe proper use of the standard weights delivered last spring, as ordered by the joint resolution of !Joth houses of Congress,

7

[ 4]

nnd communicated to me by your fo.vor in July Inst, will be to.ken into ho.1~ as soon as in the progress of the other works, such workmen become ai's~ ) posable for it, ns the finishing of th~ir works, on which they a.re o.t present / engaged, will allow to occupy them in it. / 29. The ext1msiun of room required this foll, which renders even the room disposable before, fnr more commodious nnd ndnpted to our different purposes, will eo.se equnlly the works for the coast survey, and those for the weight nnd measure standards, which had before to make room alternately for ench other, nnd however were crammed, and provided in a much less adapted manner. 30. Various instruments required from Europe, and ordered since more or less time, may be expected either during this winter, or next spring ; tho time they consume, of the nrtists who have them in hand, testifies that in nll such works, ns require to execute prncticnlly, with proper nccuracy, works that shall fnlfil scientific requisites, in o. problem of mathematjcs npplied to natural philos1)phy, is a tnsk of time, labor, and persevering application, nnd industry, which cnnnot be hurried over that certain degree, which characterizes nssiduous perseverance.

F. R. HASSLER.
SPRINGFIELD Mou:N'l'AlN S·rA'l'ION,

No11ember t4, 1838.

