'

..

"\

!7th CoNGREll, lst Session.

Doc. No. 33.

Ho.

OJ'

R:ns

STANDARD WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

LETTER
raox

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
Tranamitting a report qf F. R. Hassler respecting
JuLY 13, 1841.
Reacl 11ncl l11id un the table.
ounce-weiKht~.

July 6, 1841. Sm : I have the honor to submit herewith, for the information of the House of Representatives of the United States, a report made to the Department by F. R. Hassler, Esq., superintendent of the work for preparing standard weights and measures, announcing the completion of the ounceweights, (being the final series of weights,) prepared for the use ·of the respective States of the Union undor the resolution of Congress approved the 14th day of June, 1836. ·· All which is respectfully submitted.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

--

T. EWING,
Secretary qf tl1e Treasury.
Hon. Jomir WHITE, Speaker of tlie Hoitse of Reps.
'WASIIINGTON CITY, June, 1841. SIR: With the present, I have the honor to inform you of the completion of the standard ounce-weights for ult the Stntcs of the Union, which form a purt. of the tusk of coni,itr11cting standards of weights and measures for the custom-houses uncl the St11les, i11 aceordance with the joint resolutions of both Houses of Congress relati11g to thut snbjcct, \Vhich is coi:µ~ mittecl to my chnrgc. There are 29 boxes, numbered, nntl inscribed, with the names of the re. · spective States. I take the liberty to propose, in relation to these standards, thnt. I should he directed to deliver them to the Treasury Depnrtmmit, like the larger weights, nnd some of the yards hnve already been delivered there, and that, at the same time, by commnnicating thi~ letter to t.he two Houses of Congress, as hnbitnal hitherto, the members thereof might he informed of tho fact, uncl indnce<l, Ol" invited, to occasion the Governo1·s of the'respective Srntes to send tlircctionR to the Treasury Deplu·tment, to whom and how
l.ial.N & Sn1011,

j,;rns.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court Beltsville, MD 20704-1387

l>o.c.

~o.

83.

hese standards may be forwarded in order to reach their aim of public

utility: there might then also be forwarded at the same time, the yards,
and some of the sets of the larger weights, which remain still in the vaults of the Treasury Department uncalled for, to bring them into that actual use which, at the time of the beginning of these ,works, appeared so pressingly desired. With the present delivery, therefore, the task of the construction of standards of the weig!tts for the States, as well as for the custom-houses, is comvletely absolved. In the system, or rather collection, of weights with acknowledged denominations, formerly English, now, by old transportation, of the United States, the troy pound is the only standard unit, legal, and material; the other weights, the denominations, and value, of which are adapted to tho different :uses t4ey were intended for, must be deduced from this unit by the proportions given only in numbers, generally of grains, they are more or less easily deducible from the I lb. troy. In the system of ounce-weights, 'Y.hich is habitually used for weighing precious metals and other objects of higher value, the unit or ounce is the one-twelfth part of the troy pound, such as it is employed in the mints, and there subdivided, and multiplied, decimally ; it was necessary to determine it with especial care from the standard of 12 ounces. !·have rendered account of the manner in which I have done that in my sixth report to the Treasury Department, dated 18th November, 1837, wherein I rendered account of the construction of the sets of ounce-weights, made for the mint, which that establishment undertook afterwards to extend to larger weights, and to multiply for the branch mints; they are in full use a11d application. · To execute properly the intention of tho joint resolution of Congress of 14th June, 1836, to provide for the States full sets of standards, such as were then under construction for the custom-houses, it was evidently necessary to furnish to the States full sets of the ounce-weights, with proper subdivisions in decimals of this unit, as they.arc habitually used in the mint. As the application of these standards must be the verification of coins, those of the weights of gold or silver smit_hs, and similar smaller operations, it is not necessary that they be extended to larger weights like those for the mint have been. The sets of ounce-weights for the States, here with presented, begin, therefore, with the ten-ounce weight, and go from there down, dccim11lly subdivided, until to the one-ten-thousandth of the ounce. The :utmost care has been bestowed upon their accurate determination by the system of combined weighing, explained in my report, quoted above. It would be needless to give larger multiples of the ounce-weights, the I lb. troy, or 12 ounces, being in the sets of standards of the larger weights, already delivered to the States, to which the present delivery forms the complement, and the completion of the full sories of standards of weights, intended to be furnished to the States. Any larger weight, required to be determined nominally· in ounces, will naturally be compared with an appropriated combination of the same larger weights, and these ounce-weights. It is, in general principles, not proper to multiply the standards over what is absolutely necessary for a full sot, because the combinations of accidental circumstances, which may deteriorate one or the other, may produce uncertainty rather than verification. As the ounce-weights are used for weighing where more minute accurn.

Doc. No. 38.
cy is desired, while the avoirdupois weights are used for the grosser commerce: it might be considered proper, in their construction, to make more minute scientific calculations in their comparisons, with reference to the variation of the state of the atmosphere, which is indicated by the barometer and the thermometer, and the consequent variation of the reduction to the vacuum, and also for what variation might result from different composition, and consequent different specific gravity of the brass; which is, however, of small influence. Such would be the mode of proceeding if the task were to construct only -One or a few standards. But for such a largo number of standards, of all sizes of weights, length-measures, and capacity-measures, as arc required to form one uniform system for the whole Union, the task would have been of nn inexhaustuble length. · Therefore, the plan to pursuo was: to obtain the same ultimate result, and effect, by practical mechanical means, which the nature of the work so easily suggests, and the establishment here made for the construction of the standards fully affords, by the following means : The troy pound of the mint, which has been adopted as legal standard by act of Congress, having been compared alrca<ly in the course of my former comparison of standards, of which I rendered account in 1832, with the weights I had then at my diRposition, and a uew standard troy pound having been procured from England, which was carefully compared with that of the mint at Philadelphia, the equality of the two being tested, brass weights were made of the composition-which has been uniformly adhered to for all constructions of this establishment for the strmdnrds, of sufficient number to make the comparisons by combination, and from the troy pound to deduce tl~e system of ounce-weights, us I have rendered account of in my report quoted above. The London weights being determined by 30 inches height of the barometer and 62° Fahrenheit of temperature, and, from the weights so obtained, all others being deduced, the equality of the metal all through the whole operations of this establishment neutralized, of course, all influence of any variation of the atmosphere, and of the metal itself; the same metal being also used for· the counterpoi51es, serving as !lead weights when the weighings were mndo ; by always placing the actual weight in the same basin, or what is called : weighing by substitution, they wcro even of tho same form, and always near approximating the weight to be compared. Thus all·the effects which, in tho use of wcightR of difforent materials, would complicate, and endanger, the accuracy of tho work, or occasion long calculations, were neutralized, as well as the balance itself was compensated by the weighing by substitution in the same basin. This mode of proceeding was so much the moro approprinto, nay, the only one applicable in the case, as the English weight, from which the weight of this country is derived, had originally no such determination, as can be considered attending to these small variations of influences and their consequent corrections. For any more detailGd deductiol'ls or description it is proper in this case, like before, to refer to a final report at tho close of all the works of the construction of standards. By tho delivery made to the Treasury Department under 10th July, 1840, a number of yards, sufficient for all the States and for some of the custom-houses, have been presented, and thoso for tho custom-houses wer& forwarded to their destination, as directed by the Treasury Department.

4

Doc. No. 33.

It is desirable that those for the States, remaining still in the vaults of the Department, be called for; the attention of the Governors of the States might be invited to the subject, that they might give the necessary infor~ rnation for their proper forwarding at the same time with the ounce-weights herewiih delivered. In order to provide snch means for the comparison of the standards of yards, or length-measures in general, as could in future be used with less scientific apparel uud lmowlcdgc, I had, nuder due authorization from the Treasury Department several years ago, ordered a feeling-lever-comparator in Berlin, of which Chevalier Bessel, Astronomer Hoyal of Konigslmrg, had the kindness to direct the cons1ruclio11. 'l'his instrument is just now arrived, and I intend to make, in proper time, the comparison of the yards, which are still in the office, by both means now on hand, this feeling-lever arrangement, belonging to the establishment for the construction of standards, and the microscopic scale of 82 inches, which belongs to the collection for the survey of the coast. This operation, at the same time as it will make the two methods directly comparable, will also furnish the accurate comparison of the standard lengthmeasure of Prussia with ours. and with those which I have heretofore compared belonging to the State ·Department, and other establishments. This apparatus is therefore a very valuable addition to the establishment of standards, which it is so desirable that should be made to regulate with certainty the relation of foreign and tlomcstic measures, which are in duily want, and use, in the custom-houses . . I take the liberty to join here a sltort instruction relating to the manner of using thcsn weights, and of prescrviug them from deterioration, which it will be proper to priut, or otherwise multiply, and add a copy with each box when delivered to their destination. F. R. HASSLER. I The Hon. TnoMAS EwINo, Secretary of lite 1'reasur,IJ of U. S.
Inslruction upon tile
sof~-keeping

and use of tlie standard ounce-weights·

. 1. The box must al wtty,,s be kept right. side up, and horizontally, particu-

larly iu opening tho box, iu order that tho weights might not slide out of their places, wlicn 11ot pressed by the cover. 2. The weights must ucvcr be touched by the hand; there are tools adapted to every kind of weights, by which they are to be tnlten in and o.ut of their places; the pincher-like tool is for the largest weight, the two spring-fonncd forceps ure for the two kinds of smaller weights. 3. Tile weights must uever he wiped, if there is dnst upon them it must be clcaue<l off with feathers, in preference those of wild birds. 4 .. \Vlw11 the woights arc used they must always be placed upon clean white papm j nil rubuiug aud droppiug mnst be prevented, and they must be \J1 geucral alwuys lrn11dlcu with tho greatest care, because their adjustment, bl:liug very close u11u delicate, is easily lost by any abuse or mishap . . 5. It unist .bu remmnbcrcd in use that the small weights are all decimals nf the ounce, a11d 11ot gr;iius, as being moro couveniont in calculations; they go down to tho nrA·o-n- part of tho ounce. o, It is nucussary tlmt those, and in general all stun<larcs, be preserved fa a dry place, a11d thut they be never exposed to dampness.

1". U. HASSLER.

