I
32d .CONGRESS,

~
Ex. Doc.

[SENATE.]

~,

ht

8es.~ion.

No. u.

({8
ANNUAL REPOR'r

I

~~

,u;-

;'l5l
()IF Till!:

Se+ttfe/
~

SUPEHliTENDENT OF TIIE COAST SURVEY,
SHOWINQ

THE PllOG ltESS OF 'rIIAT WORK

DUlllNG

THE

n~Ait

ENDING NOVEMBER, .1851.

WASl1INGTON1
ROUEH'r .AltMSTUONCl 1 l'UINTER·

1862.

National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Annual Report of the Superintendent of the Coast and Geodetic Survey

ERRATA NOTICE
One or more conditions of the original document may affect the quality of the image, such as: Discolored pages Faded or light ink Binding intrudes into the text This has been a co-operative project between the NOAA Central Library and the Climate Database Modernization Program, National Climate Data Center (NCDC). To view the original document, please contact the NOAA Central Library in Silver Spring, MD at (301) 713-2607 xl24 or Library.Reference@1noaa.gov.

HOV Services Imaging Contractor 12200 Kiln Court B,eltsville, MD 20704-1387

Blank page retained for pagination

s. Doc. 3. -·

3

LETTER
FRON

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
COMMUNICATING

T!lC report

of rfie Supcrintc11dc11t ef tl1e Coast

Srtrvey, slwwing tlw progm~s of tluzt wo1·k during tlte year c11di11g November, 1851.

TREASURY DBPARTMENT,

December 5, 1851. Sm: I have the honor to submit, for the information of the Senate, tlie accompanying· 1·eport, made to the department by Profossor A. D. l3achc, Su pct·iu tcn<lcnt of the Const Survey, showing the progress of said work during the year ending November, 1851. All of which is respectfully submittod.

THO. CORWIN,
Secretary

Hon. W.R. Krna,
President

ef tltc

'1 rcas11ry.
1

ef tlte

Senate.

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE COAST SURVEY.
CoAST SuRVEY S·rATION,

Cape Small Point, .Maine, November 6, 1851. Sm: I lmvc the honor to submit the annual report:, required hy the regulations, of the prowess of the survey of the coast of the Cfuitcd St.ates, for the iuformu.twn of the department an<l of the President u11d Congress. TflC approrriation asked for the last fiscal year provi<lc<l for work ~m portions ot the whole cxtcnckd coast of the Atlantic, Gulf of l\IexJco, 11.u<l Pacific, in tl1c proportions deemed necessary for the wants of commerce and navigation, or desirable from the difforent stages .or progress nt the scvcrul points, or economical in reference to the d1s11·ibution of the parties uecordinrr to the best working seasons. The plan ~liich has for ~ome years been pursued, with the approval of the executive o.nd legislative authorities, Jins. been steadily adhered to. The const of the Atlantic und Gulf of Mexico, cxlC'1;ding over

S. Doc· 3.
nearly nineteen and a half degrees of latitude and thirty and a half of longitude, is divided into nine sections of nearly equal extent of shore line, following the minute indentations of the coast; ~.nd tlie survr·y is begun in each, and advanced each year, as far as the means appropriatf!d permit. A base line measured in eaeh i.<ection, und ohservations made for latitude and azimuth at appropriate points, forniRh data for the preliminary maps and charts of tlie sections, wi1hout waiting for the completion of the whole work; while tbe syst<'m provides fol' the joining of 1he parts and the verifications, wbicl1 are rn'cesr·m.ry in all !'X0tencfod sUl'veys, and without which the necurncy desirable and attainable would by no means he renched .. 'l'o derive maturNl fruit fiom suc:h a /)lan, it must be steadily prosccufcc.l ~o i!s completion. It is most a< vantngeous for reasons whwh I have, m former reports, dwelt upon in detail. It avoids exclusive attention to one part ot the coaM and neglect of the rest, permitting a ready adaptntiou to general or local wants. 11 accommodates itself to the facilitws or di!li<:ultit~s presented by the different natural features of the coast, by which the rate of progress of the whole work in different place8, or of clifforent operntions in the same region, varies. It facilitates the division of labor, which is au important clement of progress and of economy; nnd r)f'rmits the execution of each operation at the best season or period, which is Pqually i1pportant. It is not less flexible in lending iti>clt' to the scientific, th.in the practical and economical rcquiremen1s of clifi(·n·nt cases. vv-lwt it is cnpahle of doing when steadily followed out, is illustrat<"d by s<~ctions three anc.l four, in which, while the ncccsimry data for mnpst chnns, n,nd sl-;etchcs have been fomi~licd frmn y<'ar to year, tbe triangulations have been advancing-one from Kent Island base, somhward, in Marylrmd and Virginia; the other from the Bodic's Iilluml bas1·, North Carolina-until they are now within lest'l tlmn lilly rnilf's of e;ich other. 'l'wo senso11s will enable us to join them, au<l then tbe ref!ulf swill verify each other. . Si1.nilar yl::ms are in pro/?rnss for ~ach of lhe SP~:tions, r:-qniring only carelul UdJU:;trnent to the ieat\ll'CS o{ the coast to l\lSUJ"C, hnnlly, a1l the pedt'ction of a geodetic survey. The c:ontinuance of the fos1cring care of the Execu:ivc and Congress in the uninfcrrupted execution ol' tli<·se plirns, will bring them certainly to maturi1y. The tin¥~ of compk1 ion will. dqwrnl Uf!on the; mea!ls wbich ~1. judi(:ious <·<~onom:y may cor1~ider avnilahlc to this port10n of the public scrv1ee. lwery rncreuse ol tlie opprop~i<1tio~, 11p.to the roint wl~en th(· work woulc~ .become un~~f·ld~, ai:d llJJJfY <!f dci:;1gn nn< <'Xccutton would be sacnhcecl to rap1d1ty, 1s attended with .uot only a corresponding decrP:isc in time, hut with more thnn a proportwnote <le~re?se. ~ hnvc confli<lcrccl it a. duly, while a<lbning generally to the h.nnts wlnch Congress has determined ut a particulnr tin:ie to. nppropnate, to. represent to the Trearnry Dcpartn~ent thf! c·aef's Ill w}ud1 au mcrnase is demunde<l for the successful progress of rlifI{>rent pnrts of the s1_n·vcy. 'l'lie plan for pror-ecutrng the survey of tlie western coast, sn as to meC't th(· wants of a commnee incrcnsing with a rapidity which has 110 precedent, nnrl the peculiar condition of the country in otlwr rnspccts, w ns presented in my last report, am I is briefly repeated in this.~ It will re qmre, for a fow years, the application of larger means thun will after-

s.

Doc.

3~

ward~ be noederl. Until we can place that consl at least on a footing in respect to surveys with that which resulted from efforts in colonial tL11es, in respect tot.he Atlantic coast, I nm convinced that duty r~quires mo. to urge the supply of' more than ordinary means to meet an extraordmnry case. On what coast before has commerce been developed, from the outset, by the aid of steam ?-altering all the usual relations or time, draught, and course, nnd I mn.y add, of value from a single loss. When has it before occuned that a locality, marked on charts four yen.rs since as a mere trading cstnblislnncnt for skins, should have grown into a city, the fourth-in such a country as the United Statesin thfl n mount of revenue collected for the general treasury? \Ve have assuredly not yet come up to the requirements of such n commerce. I have hnfore remarked that the plan of the survey furnished data for immediate use. In fact, bc~twcen one-fourth and one-third of tlie annual appropriation is devoted to what is classed n.s office work, consisting iu computation, reduction, drawing, cnl?rnvin$', electrotyping, printing, and publi8hing. Usually, the publicat.1011 of the results of a work is estimated for separately; but hero it goes to swell the totul amount. It is advnntageous not to separate the two sets of estimates, as it permits the adnl1intion of the fidd and water work and of the rmhlieation to each ol 1er in clue relation, notwithstanding the vu.rying circum,;t;mces which cannot he anticipated, and which are sometimes beyond control, in changing the amount of one or the other. Vlhcn a work, from its mngnitudc>, neccssurily occupies 11 number of years, to poi<tpone the publication of its results until its completion is to deprive the public of all ndvautnge from. it until the highest is uttain:1blc. ~o have proceeded upon the oppo~1t:e plan-that of en<leavormg to give r.csults as fast ns they can he ohtnined. Not to give those ns fin.al which nre rcnlly only npproximat.e, but stnting the degree of approximation; to give them in sud1 n. shape as will make them immccliatoly useful, increasing the refinements m the form in which they ure presented as the inereased nceuracy of the determinations penn'its. 'I'he sketches int.ended to give infonnntion to nnuticul men nnd others, which uccompanied my report in 1849, were tifi.een in number, while in the present report they arc thirty-three; nnfl eight notices to mariners, some of them very exte11dcd 1 have been puhlislwd in the course of tho yenr. This not only diffoses the informa.tion derived from the survey while it is fresh, but it reacts powerfully on the work itself~ giving a strong but beulthfol stimulus to those who nre cngngl'd in it by enabling them at once to reulize a portion of the credit of their lubors. It improves the details, too, by prescntin,<r them .in such n shape that their mc:its or d~focts c:in he fairly wci,~iell. It fixes responsibility, and gives unm.edmtc credit for well-cxeeutecl work.. I would even go further thun 1lns, by publishing the du.ta derived from obscrvnt.ion, nnd, when they .u~lmit of it, the observations th<~mselvcs. I n.m sntisficd that the ndd1t1ona.l expenditure which would thus bo required would repny itself tnony tiC??s in the. efficiency of the work, the securi.ty from l~ss, the di~fosion of infonnat1011 as to methods nncl results of observuuon, and m the great facility for such publication while the persons by whom the observations are mnde nre still actually occ;:upied in the same work, nnd nll the minute pnrticular:s are f(esli in .tboi~, mfods. 'l'his plan is much to

6
be preferred to that' of deferring the publication until the close of the survey. . . . · With the present report will be· presented a list of geogmphical positions; 3,240 m number, derived from the preliminary calculations of the work. The degree of accuracy which has bl:'.en reached in the difforent sections will be explained when considering the details. It will be (ound that improved methods of determining the latitudes by observation ha.ve been employed; that the various methods which astronomy an<l geodesy furnish for determining longitudes have been applied; and that, in addition to the usual ones, we have introduced for the first time~ as part of a geodetic work, the detei:mination of difference of longitude by the telegraph. This list will receive revision from time to time; but its publication now will afford very useful d~ta to geographers, surveyors, and even to astronomers. It will be followed by others relating to magnetism and the tides. This is a new feature in the unnual report, and, with the extension of the number of sketches, will add materially to the interest which it would have as a report of progress. For the dev(;!lopment of the plans of office work as facilities have been afforded by.the additional appropriations, the urging to eomplctim1 this list of geographical vositions, and the increased rupitlity of publication, the coast survey is indebted mainly to tbe zeal and industry. guided by knowledge and intelligence, of Brevet Major I. I. Stevens, of the corps of engineers, in acknowledging which, in connexion with the remarks on the speedy publication of the results of the survey, I feel that I am doing simply an act of justice. The prg8<nization under which the survey is conducted has been so repeatedly explained and approved, that it needs merely a passing notice. In 1843, n board was convened,,tmder authority and by direction of Congress, embodying in its constitution all the experience which could be furnished by the history of the survey, by consistiug of civilians and officers of the navy who had served in it, and oineers of the army who had served in it, or were professionally conversant with its details. This board provided for the continuation of the organization which both r~aso.ning and expe~-ience fou?d to be the m~~t.effoctiv~, combining the sc1ent1fic and practical acquirements of c1v1hans, officers of the army, and officers of the navy, in the work. The survey wns recognised as primarily for the benefit of commerce, but having importunt connexions with defence ;-providing for a permanent nucleus of civilians, and for the detail of officers of the army and navy, necessarily varyir~~ from time to tim~ in num~ers and persons as the exigencies of the mrhtary or naval servlC'e prevailed over the wants of the survey;recoQ'flising on the one hand that this branch of applied science was a prof~?sion r~quiring long and careful study, and ~n the oth~r that the practical slull of the naval officer, or the West Point education of the , army officer, migl.1t most usefolly c?ntribute to the P!ogrcss of the survcy;-not ex~ludmg t?e m~n of science from one o.f the. highest works C?f applied science which lns ~ountry has engag~d m, nor the army or navy officer from an ~pprop_nate spl~ere of uspfulness ;-not exposing the work to the contmgencies of hemg arrested by even an alarm of y;a_r, no~ of ~xeludi~g the officer of the army or nu.vy from a position m it wlule his services could be spared from other duty ;-not ~rgan'
'

·S. D'oc.

B.

' izing a. permanent corps to execute a temporary work, ii'lir: yet making the survey a mere school by which all its operations would bear upon them the stamp of the beginner ;-combining, as is appropria~e to our institutions anu our rlme, the knowledge and experience, wherever to be found, necessary to render its execution creditable to the character of the country. Such an organization could not exist under either the Navy or War Department, and, as most appropriate to a work of GOmmercc, was placed under the direction of the Treasury Department·. Circumstances huve forced the closest scrutiny of the organization, progress, results, economy-in short, of eve1y particular relating to ·the coast survey; and it must be ~ratifying to the Executive and legislature, who have done so much. for its advancement, to find the uniform approval from the highest authorities, both scientific and practical, at home and.abroad, which this scrutiny has developed. In this result is to be found the best guaranty, that, if this fostering care is continued, the survey of the coast will be properly completed in a reasonable time, and with a reasonable outlay of means. Within the year, the Geographical Societies of London, Paris, and Berlin, have given the most unequi,rocal evidence of their interest in, and approval of, the character of the coast survey. In former reports I huve compared the results of the survey on different scales of appropriation with each other. At first, on presenting the plan for its enlargement, it was diflicult to convince those upon whom the increase depended that economy would be produced. Each step rendered this less difficult by furnishing positive data in figures. The present scale vresents for the Atlantic coast a result of three and a. half to one, with an expenditure of less than two to one. (See report of 18()0.) So, also, it turns out thut the operations whid1 conduce to the essential scientific accuracy of the work are not those which tell most in the sum total of the expenditures; and that while, without those, the character of the work on land would be unworthy of the country, and the hydrography mere recomrnissuncc, they do not double the cost of the land parties. I have gone into these computations in the report of 1848, and have shown that the cost of measurement of base lines, the astronomical work, and the triangulation, wus less than the cost of tho topography which was essential to the <lelineution of the coast; while, in reforence to the accuracy of the work, their importance cannot bo .over-estimated. An exnmmntion of the geodetic method, as compa.r~d with the mode in use in the LaJ1d Ofiice of the United States, showed an aggregate cost per lineal mile for all operations, without the cost of drawing, less them the maximum allowed for the land surveys; and with the finished drawings, a cost but little exceeding it-($11 26 per lineal mile. See report of 1848.) As compared with the cost of for. eign ~urveys, the Secretary of the Treasury 1111s shown (see repo,r, Senate Doc., Ex. No. 26, 1849) that this work has largely the advantage in point of economy-an advantage which I apprehend woudl have been lost to it, if, as in some of the organizations ~broad, u. per~a!1ent corps, derivin~ irs emolument from ?ther service, m.1d onlY, · ~nmdentally employed m this, h~d been orga~1zed tO' execute it; or if intrusted to a body compoJ;ed entirely: of changing elements, not devoted ,professionally to scientific:' pursuits. ·· · ·.

S. Doc. 3·
The lowest estimate which I can make of the progress d1e work on th13 coast of the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico, is, that at the com~ mencement of this fiscal year more than three-eighths had been com::. pleted. This estimate is made from a careful e~mmination of the progress in the different sections. The shore-line to be surveyed has been estimated from the best data which could be obtained; and it is easy in every section, exce:pt those where the work has been introduced very recently, to estunate with considerable accuracy its rate of advance. A general recqnnaissance has been begun which will much facilitate this calculation, and enable us to introduce the elements of facility or difficulty of survey into the estimates for the time of completion of the different sections. 'l'he greater expenditure necessary for the maintenance of each party in the southern sections must enter alsointo such an e:::timatc, if the total amount to be expeurled is considered as final. In some portions of the operations, as for example the topography, the smnller number of <letails necessary in the southern sections diminishes the time required for the survey of'a given extenl of shore-line, or a given aren; but the expenditure in the whole is considerably greater than in the others. The present rate of annual progress is certainly between four and six per cent. of the remaining shoreline. 'l'he time when the work is to be completed, I am aware, is of less consequ.ence than the ~anr.icr in which it is done. lf executed by any but the best methods, 1t will undoubtedly be done over at some future day.. We hftvc not yet found a portion of the coast to which the geodetic.method is inapplicable. There may be such, and then we shall not be .without resource, but at present we are not com pellcd at 1any point to abandon the most exact methods. The mountains of Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts, and the hills from Maine to Maryland, afford every facility for triangulation; the wide expanse of Chesapeake bay in Maryland an<l Virginia, and of Albemarle and Pamplico sounds in North Carolina; the sea-islands and passages of South Carolina and Georgia; the keys and main of Florida, Mobile bay, and the island!l off the co:uJt of Alabama, Mississippi and Louisia:ia; the bays and prairies of 'I'exas; the b~re. hills of California; the hills and sounds of Oregon,-arc all characteristic features of the several parts of the coast, requiring only to hP recalled to the mind to indicate the easy application of the geodetic method to a survey of the coast. The points being well determined and marked on the land, and the shore-line traced, the hydrography is readily executed with the requisite nicety. Every part of these operations must go on according to a system, or the result foili! in completeness, or in economy. 'l'his is secured by a general plan of operations, tho details of which are submitted by the Superintendent to the Treasury Departm~nt, ann.ually ;, a.n<l which, when approved, are executed accordmg to mstructions given as t.o the scientific details by the Supcri_ntendent. ,f., The modes employed are thus.as uniform as can be obtained from the operatiorni of different individuals. '!'he plan of distribution given in Appendix No. 1, is io execution of the "Directions" thus approved by the Secretary of the Treasury in March, .1860, aiitl. J.Sol. At the close of each season.

of

S. Doc. 3.
the assistants report the results of their work, which are 'embodied in tbe noticeil of the several operations in the unnuul report of t\1e Supe1·fotendent. 'fhe resolution of Congress, under which the plan of organization of 1842 was drawn up, required t~f,1~, ns mnny ofEcers of the army and navy ns practicable should he c~~'!,tthc urmy oHicers on the land pan, and the na\'y officers on the water pY1 , f the work. The num, ber of army officers wns gradually increased m 1844 to 1848, whl'l1 it hnd reached fourteen, numely, five staff nnd line officers. 'l'beee were necessarily removed, wit'h but few exceptions, on the breaking out of the Mexican wn r; nnd hut for the connexion of civilians with the survey, trn.inecl to its operations, the land work woul<l have censed. Informal notice was given at one time thnt there might be 11 necesshy for withdrawing nlso the officers of the navy; hut, as the wur was not a maritime one, we ·did not suffi:~r that loss. i3oon nfter the wur dosed, application wus mn<le for the dctnil, ngnin, of officet); of the 11nny, which was met by u rcqm·st thnt formal action rnight be postponed until the rclliments were nt the posts assigned them. Th1s was in 1848. In 1849 the application wns ngain mnde nn<l declined, and in 1860 was renewed; and from time to time offic<'rs hn'.le been detailed until the number now nttuched to the survey is eleven-namely, four from the engineers and topogruphicul engineers, and seven from the line; nnd two upplicutions remuin not finall;r disposed of, 'fhe names an<l rnnk of these officers, nnd <lutes of then· detail, nre given in the Appendix No. 2. Their services have already told in the execution ?f the ope~n.tions of the past sea.son, .und will be of still fu:thcr .vnlue m those of the next, u.s they all obtam the necessary cxpenence in the practico,l operations of the survey now possessed hy some. 'l'hc number of hy<lrogrnphie parties bus been inereascd under the iqjunction of the law, as their services cou1<l be rendered a.vai1ablc. It now consists of ten pa rtics, of which four arc occupied in sections w hel'e the seven months which include the summer uro most profitable for work nfiont; one where the work is c1'.mc in the nutumn nnd spl'ing; four where the seven mouths includi~ the winter constitute the best workin~ season; antl one is employed during the greater port of the yenr. This pa.st summer, two of tho parties have been transferred from southern sections, at the termination of tlwir working seuson, to do duty for u tirnc in n more northern one. '!'he n.verngc numbel' ~f officers in each pnrty during the season, uflont, is five. On closing then· work u.float, three of each party nrc allowed liy the Navy Dcpartme.nt to repnir to the office for reducin,g"their hydrogrnphy; which, fr?tn its n~tur~, cu.nnot be so well done in any other .wny ns .under t~e. ln1f!led1nte mspection of those who hnve executed it. Durmg n. brief period in the spring or summer, and during tho nutumn, tho seasons of nctivc cmP,loyment overlap; but the interval is not consider~~le ?etwPen the ~losmg of operations in one set of .sect ions nnd the beginntng of those m tllC oth<'\rs. 'l'h~ whole number of nn.vy office1·s on co11st ~urvey duty wasjijt.y-two on the ht of Murch, 1861; and on tl1e 1st of Septetn~er, 1861! was sixty-aix. 'l'here nreon duty afloat, now, when tho parties are full, fifty-five officers, nm;l · on oince duty eleven. Tho names of the officers d~ta.iled nre given in A ppondix No. 3 No. 3

anu

10 .

's.

Doc. ·.s.

bis. The Coast Survey provides the vessels· for these parties, keeps them in repair, fits them out, and provides for current surveying expenses from. the appropriation. ::When steam is used, the coal, wood, oil, &c., are provided by the coast survey. The engineers attached to the steamers are from the navy, an<l the names of those now on service in the Coast Survey arc given in Appendix No. 4 and No. 4 bis. The transportation of officers is paid by the survey, and during the past year has fallen heavjlf upon it: officers being directed to report by letter, and not, as her.JJ<Jfore, in person, to the Secretary of the Treasury, so that their transportation in joining has been paid from the appropriation for the survey, and not from the naval appropriation. Draughtsmen are provided, while the parties are in the office, from the coast survey appropriation, being allowed as clerks to the chiefs ofJJarties only when afloat. I have found it necessary to include ad itional items for these expenses in the estimates for next year. Nearly half the officers o~ach party being detached from the survey as the parties take up their office work, that afloat is always resumed with the disadvantage of inexperience; which makes the work less valuable and more costly, and sometimes prevents the execution, by the chiefs of parties, of: as much as they would desire to accomplish. While the obli~ations of the survey to the officers of the army ancl navy serving on it are freely and folly acknowledged, it should not be forgotten that, on the other hand, the work serves as a school of practice for them, and thus gives while it rec.eives. The statistics from the records of the Coast Survey office, furnished. in the .tabl~ Appendix No. 5, show the large amount of work done, and of results collected, up to the beginning of 1851. 'l'he number of original topographical maps is 301, consisting of 483 sheets; of hydrographical ma~s 735; and of reduce~ maps an~ charts 220. The extent of shore line alreacl>' surveyed is 11,873 miles. A list of the discoveries ancl developments made on different parts of the coast is also printed in the Appendix, (No. 6.) As a summary of these was given in my report of last year, I do not propose at this time to repeat it, but merely to call 9:tention to the new results obtained this year, viz: those upon the Nantucket shoals, as shown in the sketch accompanying this report; the minute survey of the rocks in Hellga.te and in Buttermilk channel, to mnrk the changes effocte<l by bfasting; the thorough examination of the Chincoteague shoals, near the . entrance to the Chesapeake; the examination of the Frying Pan shoals near Cape Fear, and of Cape Fear entrance; the survey of the harbor of refuge of North Echsto, S"11th Carolina; of Tybee bar and Savannah harbor; of Key West; of the mouths of the Mississippi; and of Humboldt and Trinidad bays, in California. . The importa~ce of circulating the sketr.h of Nantuckct shoals among our rn;1vigators is very great; as, notwithtitanding that frequent publications have been made in r~ga.rd. to them; vessels still incautiously approach too near them. W1thm the pa.st summer one of our national vessel1,1ctouched upon Davis's New South shoal, the position 'Of which was published in 1846. 'l'he extent of tbe Chincoteague shoals and of the Frying Pan shoal appear to have been very erroneously laid down hitherto, and are now given, as well as the depth of water upon them,

S. ·Doc. ·3.

11

in sketches C No. 3, and D No. 8, appended to this report. The hur. bor of North Edisio, to the south of Churlcston, and that of Bull's buy, to .the north, fornish safe refuges to vessels finding themselves to leeward of Charleston entrance in ba<l weather. On this account I have republished, with the present report, the sketch of Bull's bay (E No. 6 1) to accompany tlm~ of North Edisto,. (E No. 7 .) 'l'he com pa~is?n of the present shore hne and channel of the entrances to the M1ss1ssippithrough the Northeast Pass, and the Puss a POutre, with the survey made in 1839, is highly instructive, and will be noticed more in detail in the hydrogrnphy of Section VIII. '!'he small number of harbors on the western coast, between San Francisco and Columbia river . entrance, renders the contribution of the surveys of Trinity bay and Humboldt harbor of the greater relative importance. The charts of the western coast reconnaissance, in three sheets, were engraved, printed und published in twenty working days from the time the drnwmg was rcccivccl ut the office of the Coast l::lurvcy. As the hydrogrnphy advances, tidal stations ut important points aro occupied, and continuous observations made. Self-registering tide gauges are constructing at the office, which will much facilitate the making of these observations. 'l'hc results obtained in the Gulf of Mexico from the discussion of the tidal observations nrc of great interest, leading to the establishment of the laws by which the phenomena. arc regl,llatcd, and bringing within the reach of computation phenomena which were supposed by uu.vigutors to be due to the effect of the prcvuilinO' winds. Provision has been maclo for extending these observations during the coming season. I have placed in the Appendix to this report (Nos. 7 and 8) a pnper read by me before the American Association fi.>r the Advancement of Science, on the tides at Cat island, in the Gulf of :Mexico, and on a mode of representing the results of observations of tidal currents; (Sketches H, Nos. 2 to 6, inclusive.) '!'he observations for longitude, by astronomical observations, by the transportation of chronometers, nml by telegraph, have been continued at various roints; and notices will be found of them, in connexion with the sevcru sections of the coast to .,.hich they belong. 'fhc discrepancy, which I have stated in previous reports, between the results of longitude by moon culminations nnd occultations, has been greatly reduced by the researches of Myers I·'. Longstrctl1, of llhilndclphio.; and the re-computation of our results, with his coefficients of the lunar . theory, will be in the highest degree impurtunt. We expect, in this matter, to receive important aid from the Nautical Almanac office, under the direction of Lieutenant Charles H. Davis, United States navy. An account of a second chronometer expedition between Liv~rpool and Cambridge is given in Section I. At Cambridge, the trnn~1ts are generally reduced by what has been culled by Professpr ~try the "American method," ns having originated and been brought t? its present advanced state in this country; Mr. Bond usin$' on ele~tncn.l clock and "spring governor," of his invention, for murlung the time at Harvard obsel'vatory. It is grntifyinO' to national foeling to be able to state that the cloc.k und governor mac!~ for tho Const Survey, by Professor Bond and his sons,. has received' one of .the five honorary medals awai·ded by the coininissioners of the late Industrial exhibition.

12

s. Doc.

3.

Charleston and Savannah, (see Section V,) Cambri<lge and Bangor, (see Section I,) have been connected for difference of longitude by telegraph, and our work has been joined in the same way \Vith that of the British government in Nova Scotia. Observations for declination of stars, giving irregular results for latitude, were made by Professor Mitchell, of Cincinnati, witl,1 the new declination apparatus of his invention, in 1849; and it is very desirable that they should be continued, with the apparatus as improvccl. This method !ms undergone the close scrutiny, and has received the approval, of the American Association for the Advancement of i:;cience. A description by Professor Mitc.:hell is given in the Appendix, No. 9. The work of two more seasons will nearly, or gu1tc, complete the determinations necessary for the nppropriate length of the arc of the meridian passing down the Chesapeake, over the space where the measurement of Mason and Dixon was supposed by some to have indicated irregularities in the fi·Yure of the earth-while by others the measurement itself was r<tieet~d. . The telegraphic connexion between New Orleans and Washington for longitude will, it is expected, be completed next year, which will give the measurement of a portion of a para.llol on the Gulf of J\foxico, hereafter to be materially extended by the ordinary operations of the survey. The examination of the Florida reef, made nt my request, last winter, by Profossor Agassiz, has developed, as was anticipated, the subject of its origin, growth, present character, nnd probable future progress, and in the most masterly mnnner. As it is <lcsirable to give the results entire, in full detail, with drnwings, and in an appropriate form, I have suggested that it be made a separate communicatio11 by the Treasury Department to Congress. In the mean time, I present from it a description of the topography of the keys ancl reef, which forms one of the chapters, with extracts from other portions of the report, in the Appendix, No. 10. The scientific details are so achoirably interwoven with the body of the practical conclusions, that it has been found impossible to present portions ol'the report without injury to the whole. One hundred and fifty-eight maps, charts, and preliminary sketches, are now in the hands of the draughtsmen ancl cngraven~, or have been publi~hed; a list of which is placed in Appendix No. 11, sbtlwing the number published, engraved, and in progress. Of these, the following have been engraved during the year to accompany this report, besides nineteen sketches of progress.

!.-General ltydrograpltic slcctchcs,
1. Nantucket shoals. 2. Current chart of Boston harbor. 3. 'Progress of Sandy Hook. . 4. Middle Ground, entrance to Chesapeake. 6. Hatteras shoals. 6. Hatteras inlet. 7. Beaufort harbor. 8. Frying-pau shoals.

4t:.

S. Doc. 3.
9. Savannah city. 10. Savannah entrance. 1 L Bull's bay. ] 2. North l~<listo. 13. Florida peninsula. . 14. Cedar lu~ys. 16. Preliminary chart of Key West. 16. Horn Island pass. 17. Delta of Mississippi. 18. Pass Christian. 19. Mobile bay. 20. l·'ive dingrams of titles at Cu.t island. 21. Mnrn Island straits. 22. Trinida<1 bay. 2:1. H11mholdt b~1y. , 2·1 to 26. McA rtlwr' s r<'connuissancc chart, 3 sheets. 27. Mouth of the Columbia.

13

II.-Slcetchcsfur location of ligltt-liou&cs, ~·
1. Holnws's Hole.

2. B<>acon ranges, New York.
3. Fishing battery, ChcMpeuke. 4. l\lo;;qu1to inlet. 6. llcbccca. i;houl. · 6. A ransu.s pn.ss. 7. G ilvoston buy. 8. San D icgo. 9. Point Conception. 10. Point Piuos. 11. B·1n F rnncisco entrance. 12. Humboldt hay. 13. Cape H1111c0<:k.

Hyclrographic notice~ h1~vc been pu~)lished by nuthor.ity of tl~e Treasury Dep:utm1·nt, u.n<l chstnbutc<l witlun the past yca.r, m rcla.uon to the following lm:alit.ics and sulljccts, importtmt to the navigating interests of the eountry: 1. ( )n the draught of vessels which can enter the south chunuel of the Columbia river, Oregon. 2. Sailing dit'£·ctions for entering the Columbia river as fm· us the harbor of Astoria. 3. Des<~riptinn of the islands and rivers between the harbor of l\!ontct·(·y and mouth ol' Columbia river. 4. Correction in t.hc position of the Furnlloncs and Point Lobos, entrance! to San Francisco bu.y. 6. Information in relation to North Edisto hnrbor of refuge, 8outh Carolina. 6. Infimnation in relation to Sun Diego, Humboldt, and Trinidad harbors, Wt'stern collst. 7. Ext.ra<.!t from Lieutenant Communding Alden's letter, in relation to Humboldt harbor a.nd Tr.inida.d bay.

l.\i

.

,

S. Doc .. 8.

S. Report of the latitude and longitude of Point Conception. The list of geographical positions appended to this report (Appendix No. 12) contains the trigonometrical points of the coast survey determined up to July, 18150; ru1d also the positions of a number of permanent objects determined by mf!ans of the plane table. The list is accompanied by sketches showing the positions of the points reforred to. A/reface explains generally the divisions of the coast which are referre to; and, m a popular way, the mode of determining the distances, latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths, which the table contains, their connexion through the figure of the earth, and their variation due to irregularities of figure and density. The degree of approximation which may be expected from the results of the computation, according to the stage of progress towards the final conclusions, is pointed out. The arrangement of the difforent parts of the table is also fully explained. Great care will be required in the revision of the pl'intin~ of this useful list; and even with it, errors must be expected, wlnch, however, a subsequent impression will in a considerable degree correct. The act of 3d of March, 186 l, required an important class of duties of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, namely: to provide for the examination of the sites of light-houses, beacons, buoys, &c., for which appropri~tions wer~ m?.de, and which, in the opinion of the Fifth Auditor, required exammat10n. "SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That if such person as the Secretary of the Treasury shall designate shall report, in any of the cases herein provided for, that preliminary surveys are necessary to determine the site of a proposed light-house, or light-boat, beacon or buoy,· or to ascertain more folly what the public exigency demands, the Secretary of the Treasury 8hall thereupon direct the Superintendent of the survey of the coast of the United States to perform such duty on the seaboard, and the colonel of the corps of topographical engineers to perform such duty on the northwestern lakes. "SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That the officer so directed shall forthwith enter upon the discharge of the duty; and, after fully uscertainincr the facts,. shall report: First, whether the proposed facility to navig~tion is the most suitable for the exigency which exists; and, second, where it should be placed if the interests of commerce demand it; third, if the thing proposed be not the most suitable, whether it is ex- · pedient to niake any other kind of improvement; fourth, whether the proposed light has any connexion with other lights, and, if so, whether it cannot be so located as to subserve both the general and the local wants of trade and navigation; an<l, fifth, whether there be any, and if any, what other facts of importance touchincr the subject. 0 "SEC. 4. And be it further enacted, That a11 such reports shall, as speedily as may be, be la.id hefore the Secretary of the Treasury; and if such as to authorize the work, without further legislation, he shull forthwith proceed with it, otherwise such reports shall be laid before Ctmgress at the next ensuing t1ession; but, in all cases when the person designated liy the Secretary of the 'l'reasury, under the second section of this act, does not report such preliminary examination as expedient,· the provisions of this act shall, without delay, be carried into execution."

S. · Doc. 3. ·
The Secretary.of the Treasury, in conformity with the .first clause of the second section of the act quoted above, called upon the Fifth Auditor to report· the cases in w hic.:h prcliminnry surveys were necessary to determine the sites of the objects provided for and enumernte<l in the act. He reported that, .with three exceptions, he had "no knowledge of the reasons on which the several appropriations were made," and that "the necessity for the examination was apparent from the inany lights on the coast and lakes, and the fact that on some parts of the coast the lights are now so numerous that it is impossible to distinguish one from another, and they urc hence becoming a nuisance;" (See A:ependix No. 14, bis.) In pursuance of the report of the Fifth Auditor, the Treusury·Department gave me instructions on the 29th of Murch last, (see Appen· dix No. 13,) to proceed with the examination on the Atlantic coast, the Gulf of Mexico, and Pacific, including thirty-six localities from Maine to 'rex11s, and on the western coast from Humboldt harbor, California, to the mouth of the Columbia river, Oregon. Instructions, more or less detailed, were issued by me, ns early a.s practicable, to the assistants of the coast survey opcmting in or near these localities, directing surveys, reconnaissances, or examinations, as the cases required~ uron these reports the decision required by the lnw was made, and al the facts of the case communicated for the information of the department. 'J'hese valuable reports of the nssistllnts, usually accompanied by maps or sketches, or reforring to the published maps of the coast survey, are embodied in the Appenciix to the prejent report, under the heads of the different sections of the coast. 'l'hc results are also briefly stated in the same connexion in the bo<ly of the report. A detailed list of the subjects of my reports, in tubular form, is presented in the Appendix, (No. 16,) including the section of the survey in which the work was done; the name of the State, the special locality, the name of the object appropriated for, the ofliccr by whom the examination was made, the date and nature of my reports. 'l'he table also contains the results of examination for sites of light-houses, &c., required under the act of Congress of the previous year, viz: those ut Fort Point in the buy of San Francisco, at Point Conception, Point Pinos, neur Monterey, Point Loma, near San Diego. Culifornia, an<l. Cape Hancock or Disappointment, mouth of Columbia river. 'l'he only ol~jects remaining not reported upon arc a li~ht-house an<l ~og-signal 11t Umqun, in Oregon, and two on the coast ot North Clll'O· hnu, the sites for which al'C under examination, and upon which reports may soon be expected. 'l'he exnminations were made in eleven Stntcs, viz: Maine, l\fo.ssnchusetts, Uhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Mury}and, North Curolina, Florida, 'l'exas, California, aud in Ot'cgon 'f?rntol'y. And the objects reported upon ore us follows: light-houses, eighteen; h°;l'bor or "bug" lights, three; beacons, six; light-bouts, t!1rce; buoys, thirty-three; spindles, two; fog-hell, one; fog-whistl.es, four; flon.tmg bell-be1.1c9n, one. . The special localities of these 09Ject~ are given at l~ngth m the table, (Appen<lix No. 16,) nnd the ~~tmls of th? examinations are treated of under the heads of the difforc11t sections of the

·

16

S. Doc. 3.

coast, and m the reports of the hydrographic assistants of the const survey, which are given in the Appendix. The information embodied in these reports has been obtained through the facilities furnished by the distribution of the parties of the coast survey in nU the sections of the coast, at a merely nominal expense-less indPed than one thousand dollars-while the information obtained of a reliable sort from the nssistants of the work, will effeet a saving oftnnny thousands. The zealous and efficient assistant in charge of the office of the Coast Survey hns caused thn drawings required to illustrate the reports to he promptly made and forwarded to the department. Nor have the steps tak0n to procure the reports interfered in any case, that I am aware of~ seriously, with the duties of the Superintendent and assistants, being rather incidental than foreign to the other duties in which they are engngcd. In July last a letter was addressed to me by the secretary of the Light-hou8e Board, created by act of Congress of March last, requesting inquiries of the chiefs of hydrogrnphic partieo of tlie coast survey in regard to light-houses arn1 accessonei! on tlie coast. I adch·es11ccl a circular to the officers thus rcferrecl to, and have transmitted their replies to the board. Several of their replies contain recommendations of new light-houses, beacon$, buoys, &c., which arc referred to in their annual reports. I have embodied them with other recommendations of iuisistants in the survey, and have given extracts relating to tliem from the reports. (Appcmdix, No. 16.) They embrace ol~jccts in the States of Maine, l\fassachusetts, New York, North Carolinn, South C:1rolinn., Florida, Texas, and California. (For a tabular l~st of these objects sefl Appet1cli~, No. 17.) 'fhe object of my annunl report is twofolcl-one, to give nn account of the progress of the survey; and tlw other, to fornish information which has been derived from it, ancl which may be of interest to commerce and navigation. The preliminal'y stntemenls are intended, very briefly and in a general way, to call attention to the most prominent points rda.ting lo either of these ol~jects; to give a condensed statement of the progress of each part of the work, an outline of the progress which may be expected <luring tlIP. ensuing ji.Ycal year, and the estimate of its cost. Following the divisions of the coast into sections which has been adopkcl in the work, I next give a more detailed account of the several operations, stating hy whom tlwy have been executed, and their results, derived from the annual reJiorts of the assistants and others employed, a11d prefacing these det;1i s by a notice of portions of th~ work m each section; . In this part of th~ rcporl I have t;·lt nt liberty to mcorporate such statistics as nre useful m the course of tl11~ survPy in the office or field. Justice to the arduous la hors of those who engl'lge in .the difficult operations !if the w~rk requin·s that, ~hey should rec.eive a full a.cknowle~lgment of the servwe ron<lert'1d. ] he progress of the out-door work 1s brought up to the first of OctobPr in all cases, and, when it is practicable, to the first of November; that of the olfice work to NoverribPr. The division of the coast into sections is as follows: I. Passamaquoddy hay to Point Judith, includi1 g the coast of the States of Maine, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and llbode Island.

S. Doc. 3,
II. From Point Judith to Cape Henlopen, including the coast of Con· necticut, New York, Pennsylvania, and part of Delaware. III. From Cape Henlopen to Cape Henry, including the coast of Delaware, Maryland, and part of Virginia. IV. From Cape Henry to Cape Fear, including the coast of the State of North Carolina. V. From Cape Fear to the St. Mary's river, including the coast of the States of South Cnxoliua and Georgia. . . VI. From the St. Mary's river to St. Joseph's bay, coast of·Flonda, nnd including the Florida Reef and Keys. · VII. From St. Joseph's bay to l\fohilo bay. VIII. From Mobile bay to Vermillion bay, including the coast of Alabamu, Mississippi, and part of Louisiana. IX. From Vermillion bay to the boundary, including the coast of pa.it of Louisiana an<l. of Texas. X and XI. 'l'be coast of California and Oregon. · The triangulation is continuous, with' one single interval of about fifty miles, which less than two seasons more will ~lose, from the mouth of the Kennebec, in Maine, to Ocmcoke inlet, in North Carolina, and is well advanced in South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Louisiana, and Texas, and nearly complctctl in Alabama and Mississippi; and the other parts of the work ure based upon this and keep po.cc with it. The survey of the western coast is making vigorous progress, striking first n.t the <letermin11tfons most impottant to navigation. That the survey is not advanced more equally in the different sections, will be understood from the <lutes nt which the a.rpropriiition has pc.!rmitted the intro· duction of the operations on their full 'scale in them. The work was in progress in all its rno,in branches first in the dilfcrent sections as follows: In No. I, in 1844; in No. III, iu 1844; in No. IV, in 1847; in No. V, in 1849; in No. VI, in 1850; in No. VIII, in 1847; in No. IX, in l.850. No. Ii wns nearly completed in 1844. In No. VI there is merely a rcconnaiss11nce, the appropriation not allowing tha commencement of the other operations there. 'l'he operntions on the western coiist are necessarily, for the present, of a kind appropriate to the peculiar circumstances of the country. ' 'l'he loss of the steamer Jefferson on the coast of Pntngonia, on her voyug~ to the western coast, .has sc~·iously impe~c<l the w~rk which was laid out for the season m sections X antl XI. 'l'he hght-house surveys ordered by Congress on the western coast may be postponed for a brief time in consequence of this loss; but the armn~ements made by the Treasury Defmrtment, to equip the steamer Corwin and to send her to that coast, wi I soon place the hydrography there on the footing designed for it. It will be recollected thnt the. Corwin was constructed for the w9stern coast; but that in onler to save the working season of this, the Jefferson,, considered in every ~·espect suitable· for the purposei (see Appendix, No. 54,) was sent m her stead. · The J cff~rson ahould, ?n my opinion, be replaced, as she wu.s one of the most useful steam vessefs ~of the coast sur:s,rey. Befor~ pro~e~ding with an account of the progress of the coast survey durmg tlie past year, I would. ngnin resp<:ctfully call the attention of the dcpar~ment to the fa.ct that no ~cknowledgment, of th~ kind

:JS

S. Doc ·3.

which is most grateful to a ,military nr an, has yet been made to Captain .A. A. Humphreys, ·of the cor.(ls of topographical engineers, for hill devoted and most valuable services to the work. His claims are of the strongest kind for zealous, able, and effective service, and I trust, sir1 will be urged by you upon the President. I proceed to state the general progress of the work during the past year as briefly as the nature of the operations will permit, reforring for details to the next division of my report, in which each operation i1 treated under its appropriate head, and with reforence to the persons by whom it has been executed. The progress of the work proposed for the next fiscal year is stated, in a general way, in connexion with the estimates. . SECTION I. Coast C?f :Maine, New Hampsltirc, :ft{assacllusctts, and Rltotle Island.-Nine parties have been employed in this section during the whole or part of the season; seven in land work and two in l1ydrogm· phy. Two of the topographical parties were double-that is, employed each two plane tables; and one of the hydrographic parties had throe vessels, one of them a steam-vessel. 'fhe primary triangulation wa~ extended to Cape Small .Point, in Ma.inc; and the astronomical and magnetic observations connected with it made at two stations. 'fbe reconnaissance was carried beyond the Penobscot. Special magnetic observations, for harbor charts, were made at three stations in Maine. The secondary triangulation was completed to Casco bay, and dw reconnaissance cnrried over the bay. The topograpl?J of the vicinity of Chatham and ·wcllfleet, Massachusetts; of Cape Ann, from Beverly farms tQ, the n01theast point of the cape; and of Newburyport harbor) Massachusetts, was executed-.. The hydrogmphy of tlw Nantucket shoals was continued. The hydrogmphy of l\foskcgct ch:mnel was completed ; off-shore soundings were made off Block island and Gay Head; the limits of soundings on Great Hip and Davis's bank extended; and the position of Fishing Hip determin.ed. Tidal and current olJservn· tions were made in Buzzard's bay and t.he Vineyard sound, and in the passages connecting them. Chatham harbor was cxaminecl; the hydrography of Salem, Newburyport, and Portsmouth (New Hampshire) harbors, and of their approaches, was completed. 'l'i<lal observation· at·C'harlestown, Salem, and Newburyport, l\fassnchusctts, and at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, have been ma<le. Hcports were made 011 light-houses, &c., at Naraguagus bay and the mouth of the Kennebec, Maine; in Boston. hnrbor; off Clmtham; in Holmes' Hole harbor, .Massachuse1Jts; and off Brenton's reef, H.hode lsland. The difforcncc of longitude ·of Bangor, Maine, and Cambridge observatory, Massachusetts, has been ascertained by telegrnph, (November 25 ;) and Cambridge has been co1mected in the same way with o. station of the British survey of Nova Scotia. A second chronometer expedition, for difforence of'lo11·gitu<le of Greenwich and Cambridge, has been in progress, and is nearly brought to a close. The .following maps and charts have been in progress, or published: Richmond's Islnn<l harbor, Maine; Salem harbor, Massachusetts, and its ar>proaches; Nantucket shoals, new edition; und the general coo.st oel:iru:t, Ea;stem series, No. 1.

~'S.

·noc. ·S.

19

S:rncTION II. Coast ef .Connecticut, New Ym·k, New Jersey, Pemlsi;lvattia, and Dclaware.-The·calls for work in this section, the most of which is essentially completed, have, as usual, ooen met by the employment of parties· during u portion of the season when they could best be spare<l from other sections. 'l'he triangulation of the Hudson has been extended. Hydrography of verification lrn.s been made on the south side Qf Long Island, and at the entrance to the Connecticut river; additional off-shore work near the eastern end of Long Island has been done, and tides and currents have been observed for the off:.shore chnrt. Sanely Hook has been re-surveyed to ascertain its changes; certain of the rocks nnd reefs in Hell Gate, i11em· New York, have been minutely examined, to mark the changes by blasting; surveys of mnge lines for the main ·ship and Swash channels into New York harbor have been made. Tidal observtttions have been kept up nt Governor's Island. Reports have be'en made on light-houses, beacons, bnoys, &c., for Black Rock, Long Island sound, Gardiner's island, Sag Harbor, New York harbor, Fire island, Newark bay, and Passaic river. 'rhe published charts and those in progress in this section nre, Hart and City islands; south side of Lonf? Island, eastern sheet; Hell Gate; ofl:~shore chart, No. 1, from Gay Head to Cape Henlopen; mouth of Con·necticut l'iver; Long Island sound, western sheet; Sttndy Hook sketch; Hell Gate rocks sketch. The atlas of Long Island sound requires but one harbor map to complete it, nnd that is well advanced. SEC'l'ION III. In this section, which includes tlu: coast efpart ef Delaware, ef Mar11land, and part ef Vfrgfoia, ten parties have been at work. Astronomical observations have been made at two stations for latitude, azimuth, &c., completing the priumry and astronomicu.l work between th~ w· ashi~gton o?servatory, Capitol, and the Chesapeake base. The pn~ar1 tnangulat10~s l~ave been extended down the Chesapeake, nn~l prehmmary determumt1ons made to the cupcs. 'l'he secondary triangulation inside bas advanced with the primary, and that outside has been carried to within about twenty miles of Cupe Charles; next season these triang~lutions. will be. com~ected, verifying t~1e secondary ~ork, and the primary tnangulat1on will be, probably! quite completed. The topography of both shores of the Chesapeake has advanced some forty-eight miles; the eastern shore to Rose Mary station, and the 'vcstern to Wolf Trap. The top6gmphy on the outside has reached South Gargatby. 'l'he verification work of topography in the Patnpsco nnd npproaches, and on the eastern shore, has been continued. 'The hydrogmphy has made excellent progress; the outside work has been.ext~nded twenty~six miles to South Gargathy, and the filling up inside, frotn Windmill point to Wolf Trap; the middle t?rouncl at the. entrance to the Chesapeake has been sounded over. 'Tidal observations ~1ave been kept up at Ol<l l'loint Comfort. Reports have been made ~m hghthouses,,&c., at Fishing battery (Chesapeake) and the l3odkm shoal (Pa~npsco.) 'I he map of Baltimore hol'bor and the Pntapsco n.nd the upper sheet of th~ Che11a.peake have continued in the hands of the engmver. The drawings of the second sheet of the Chesapeake and of the outer coast have been commenced. 'l'he preliminary cha.rt of the seacoast of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia, has been ex.tended southward so ai to

s~

Doc. 3·

give the Chincoteague shoals, employing the electrotype process to make the additions without loss of the original plate. A sketch of the middle ground at the entrance'of the Chesapeake has been prepared and published. SECTION IV. Coast of part ef Virginia and ef North Carolina.-Six parties have been employed in this section during part of the season~ three land and three hydrographic parties, one of the latter having a steam-vessel. Observations for difference of longitude were made by telegraph and chronometers between Washington and Forbes' Point, A reconnaissance was made for the extension of the primary triangulation over Pamplico sound, which included also an examination of Core sou_nd. The secondary triangulation of Currituck sound was exten<lccl northward, nearly to the Virginia and North Carolina line. 'l he triangulation and topography of the entrance to Cape Fear river and of its approachee were executed. The tertiary triangulation of the ocean sfiore was carried from Cape Hatteras to Ocracoke inlet. The tof,ography of Beaufort harbor and its approaches was com1>leted. I1he hydrography of Albemarle, Roanoke and Croatan sounds was completed, arid that of Currituck sound carried to the limits of the land work. Oregon inlet was examined. The Frying-pcm shoals, o:tf CapQ Fear entrance, were surveyed. The l~ydrograpl1y of Cape Fear entrance and its approaches was executed. 'l'he exploration of the Gulf Stream, in this and the next section, wns continued. Examinations, under the light-house law, were made at Beacon island, Ocracoke inlet, (November,) the Hatteras shoals, and Cape Fear river. The first sheet of the map of Albemarle sound has been in progress, and the second sheet is begun. The preliminary chart of Beaufor~ harbor, and sketches of Cape Fear entrance and of the Frying-pun shoals, have been prepared and published. SECTION V. Coast ef South Carolintt and Georgia.-The work lias made very good progress in this section. Charleston and Savar.nab have been connected with each other, and with the Seaton station., Washington, for difl~reuce of longitude. Astronomical observations at Charleston have been continued. The opening of the lines of the primary triangulation was continued, and two stations have been occupied; the secondary uiangulution of North Edisto river, the Daw ho, St. Helena sound, South Edisto and Ashepoo rivers, has been made, and the reconnaissan('e extended on one side of the base to the Stono. A preliminary triangulation of Savannah river entrance lias been made. The topography of the shores of North Edisto ha.rbor and river, and of the shores of the Savannah river, near the city untl at the entrance, has been e:xec.uted; The hydrography of Charleston harbor, and that of North Edisto harbor of refuge, has''been completed. 'l'idul observations have been made at Charleston and Savannah. The map of Charleston harbor has made considerable progress, and a tracin~ on a large scale has been sent to the Chamber of Commerce of the city. Sketches of North Edisto harbor of refuge, and of Savannah entrance and harbor, have been prepared and published. The sketch of Bull's Bay harbor of refuge has been republished. SEc·r10N VI. Ooast of l!'lorida,, and keys and reef8.-J.."'ive partiee bave ee n employed during parts of the season on this coast. The ba~
1

S. Doc. 3:
lines have been prepnred for final measurement; the recl'>nnaissance hus been extended. The triangulation has included Key Biscayne bay, the keys and sounds to Turkey key. The triangulation of Ceilar keys and the vicinity of Crystal river has been commenced. The topography has embraced the Marquesas, Boca Grande and its vicinity, Bahia. Honda, and Koy Biscayne bn.y, and the main, to tho limits of the triangulation. 'fhe hydrogro.phy of Key West and Boen Grande has been Completed. A hydrogrnphic reconnaissance has been made of Mosquito inlet, on the eastern coast of Florida, for placing buoys. Hourly tidal observations have been kept up at Key West. 'l'hc chart of Key West is in the hands of the engrnver. Sketches of the rcconnaissnneo of Cedar keys and Mosquito inlet have been prepared and published.
SECTION

VIII. Coa,st ef Alabama,

Missi.~.qippi,

and Louisiana.-The

secondary triangulation has included work of revision, and has been extended westward, signals being placed in Lake Borgnc and the Rigolet.s. Biloxi ,and St. Louis bays have been triangulated. The topography has advanced along Mississippi souml from West Pascagoula river, to include Biloxi bny, and has included part of Pass Christinn. 'l'he hydrogrnphy has been extended outside cast and w~st of Mobile entrance; has included Bon Socours bay, (Mobile bay,) Pass Christian, and a reconnaissance of the Southwest pass and the Pass l'Putre of tho mouths of the Mississippi. Hourly tidn.l observations bave been made at Fort l\forgari, Mobile entrance. The chart of Mobile entrance has been published; the preliminary d1art of Mobile bay hn.s be~n prepared o~d published, and the dmwing of the two sheets of the fimshed chart of the bay ha.s been nearly completed. Sketches of Horn Island paAs, Pass ClJl'istinn, nnd the delta of tho Mississippi, have been prcpn.red and published. SECTION IX. Coast ef 1'cms.-'l'he primary triangulation has been extended westward to the set of stations preceding the Brn.zos, and the secoadnry triangulation somewhat further. 'l'he topography of Galveston hay has been completed, including Turtle bay and the entrance of the San Jacinto nnd 'l'rinity rivers, n.nd East and West bays, to the limits of' la.st year's triangulation. The hydrography of Galvestou \}.trance has been completed, and that of the approaches nearly so. Hourly tidal observations have been made during part of the season at Galveston. The light-house sites in Galveston Upper n.ncl Lower bays, noel at Aransas pass, have been examined and reported upon. The drawing of the chart of Galveston entrance is in progress. Sketches of the hay and of Aru.nsns pass, for light-house purposes, have been prepared and published. ·

a

ye~r; n~mely, four parties. Although the hytlrography has been matermlly ·impeded by the untoward loss of the steamer~ effi:irson, nlrcn<ly alluded to, the ef;Jhrts made to keep the work m~v!ng om~n~d have bee~ atten~ed with success. 'rhe geographical ~os1t1ol'!s of I omt Conception, Po1?t ~inos .(Monterey,) Point I.6tna (~an Diego,) ar:id Cnpe Ha!1cock, or D1sappomtment, have been deter~ined'. Mugneuc observations lmve been made at the same points. 'I he trmngulutlon of part

[3~cTroNs X AND XI. Coa.~t of Calffornia and Oreg<m.-The n.ppropnation permitted merely the employment of the same force as laat

s.

Doc. 3.

of San Francisco bay and of San Diego harbor has been made. Plane.o table surveys for sites of light-houses have been made in San Francisco bay and its approaches, at Monterey, Point Conception, San Diego, and Cape Hancock, or Disappointment, and its vicinity, including Cape Adams. Surveys for the 1oint commission for naval and military defences have been made at Mare island, near Vallt;jo, and on both sides of the entrance to San Francisco bay. A full hyclrographic rcconnn,issance has been made of Columbia river from its entrance to a point above Astoria, of Humboldt harbor and river, and of Trinidad bay; and a general hydrographic reconnaissance is in progress from Monterey to San Diego, as supplementary to that of last year from Columbia. river to Monterey. Buoys have been sent to Columbia river by direction of the Treasury Department, to be placed by the 'Coast survey party .there. A report on a light-house site at Humboldt harbor is received, and one at Umqua river has been directed. Tidal observations are making near San Francisco. The chart of Columbia river has been engraved, and will be published after making provision for the introduction of reported recent changes, if found tO be of importance. Sketches of the reconnaissance of Humboldt harbor, Trinidad bay, San F'rancisco entrance and bay, San Diego harbor, Cape Disappointment, Point Conception, Point llinos, and Point Loma, have been engraved and published. 'The work in the field is in vigorous activity, and the arrangements in the office for publishing are most thorough and effective. Besides the work stated in the several sections, the computation of the field work, the registry and assemblage of it, tho reduction of the land work 'and hy<lrography in the office, have kept pace with the outof·door operations. Fifteen maps have been electrotyped. Sixty-three sketches, including those showmg the progress of the work, have been prepared and engraved, to accompany this report. '1.'he list of geographical positions from the preliminary computations of the survey, with the necessary maps to render it available to geographers, surveyors, and others, has been prepared with much labor, and is now appended to this report. (Appendix No. 12.) In the estimates for the next fiscal year, I provide for the continuation of the work on the same scale which has been heretofore approved by the Executive and Congress; expressing, however, my conviction, which has been before stated, that the approp!iations for the Florida reefs and keys should be increased, for at least a few years, to sixty thousand dollars, so as to enable the work to be rapidly pushed in that quarter. The publication of the observations made in the survey, to which I have also, from time to time, called attention, is very desirable. It will secure them from all possibility of loss; can be done better, more quickly, more accurately, with greater knowledge of all details, while the work is in rrogress, than after it has all closed. The publication of the observatwns would tend to facilitate the. progress of the work itself, and furnish means of estimating the relative value of difforent processes used in it. It has been warmly recbmmcnded by one of the first scientific bodies in the country, the American Philosophical Society. The cost of publishing the data from the work, and many results which

s.

Doc. ·2·

we arc now crumped for means to give to the public, would not ex<:eetl thirty thousand dollars for the first year, and might be less afterwards. They should be . published in u. form suited to scientific observations, and creditable to the country, and under close supervision at. the Coast Survey office. I am satisfied that it will he best for a few years to give the full appropriation asked last year for the western coast, that we rnay render the facilities which the great and rapidly increasing commerce demands. 'rho navigation by steam renders the necessity for a knowledge of the const more than ever important, as steam-vessels run a direct course, keeping near the lo.ml, and stopping from harbor to ho.r· bor, as commerce rcouircs. Until we have the necessary information 1 of a general kind, w e ought to press the survey in that quarter. 'l'ho results, even under the disadvunlageous circumstances of the past year, ahow whnt may be done by zeal and industry, furnished with adequate means. The addition of another party there is very desirable. In ma.king these estimates, I suppose the usual aid derived under the law from the War and Navy Departments. Tho unusual calls during the past year for payment of transportation of naval oilicers on first joining the work, ordc.recl often, ns they are, from distant points, and for clerks or draughtsmen for the hy<lrogrnpbic parties when ashore, hn.ve pressed heavily on onr limited means, \vhich did not hold <rut to the end of the fiscal year. I have provided against the recurrence of this contingency by addition to the estimates for the coast of tho Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico, which, though small, is necessary to prevent the cutting off of part of tho anticipated operations.
ESTIMATE FOR 'l'IlE msCAL YEAlt

1852-'53.

General expe~ses for all the sections, namely: rent, fool, postngc; matenals for drawing, engraving and printing; carpente1:'s work nn<l materials; instrument maker's wor]{ and materials; blank~books, stationery, printing and ruling forms; binding; transportation of instruments, maps und ?harts, and 1nisccllnneous office expenses; purchase of new rnstruments, books, maps, nncl charts. . · · · · . · · · · · . · . . · . $16,000 SEC'.J.'ION T. Const of 1l1amc, New Hrunp.~ltirc, lrfm1sac:ltusctts, and Rltodc Island. l·'ield-work.-'I'o extend the primary triangulation in 11faine, und make the reconnaissance nnd astronomical and magnetic observations connected with it; to extend the secondary triangulation over Casco bay, (Portland,) and to 1lctcnnino tho heights of the stations between Portsmouth (New Ilmnz1shirc) and Portland; to complete 1110 topogmphy of Newburyport harbor; to commence tho.t o:f the coast between Portsmouth n.nd Portland, nnd of Port· land .hnrbor; to complete tho topography of Ca1ie Amt; to. ~ntinuo the hydrogrn.pliy of the Nantuclcct sh~uls, -and ~f the oceun near Nantucket; to commence thnt for off-shot e chart No. 2; to complete that of Cltatltam, Glouce.stcr, und Annis 8gwi,m harbors und to commence those of York, Saco, and Kcnnebimlc; 'to continue the observations of tides ·and cuuents in. Mm·tlia's Vineyard· ancl Nantucket souuds,

S.' Doc. 8,
Bnd to take the views 'required for the general coast chart No. 2. Office-work.-To make th.e reductions and computations for the section; to complete the drawing of coast chart No. 3, from Cape Pogue to Cltatham light, the drawing af Salem, Newburyport and Portsmoutlt harbor charts, and to commence those of CJwtltam, Gloucester, Annis Squam, and Portland harbors; to continue the engraving of Boston harbor cha;rt; to complete those of Ne7:pburyport, Salem and Portsmoutlt,-will require ........·............·...·· $36,000 SECTION II. Coast of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware. To continue the triangulation and hydrography of the Hudson; to make such work of verification as may be required; to complete the observat.ions of tides and currents for offshore chart No. 1; to complete the engraving of south side of Long Island, middle sheet; to complete the cngmving of Connecticut river entrance,-will require ....·...·... 7,000 SECTION III. Coast of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. Field-worlc.-To complete the triangulation of the shores of the Cltesapealce, and of adjacent bays and roadsteads in Virginia, of the outer shore to the capes of Virginia; to make the astronomical and magnetic observations required, the secondary triangulation of part of the Potomac or of James river; to continue the topography of tbe shores of the Chesapeake to York river on the western shore, and Tazewell' s on the eastern shore of Virginia, and of the outer shore of the peninsula to Rogue's island; to continue the hydrography of the outside to Rogue's island, and of the Clicsapeake to Yorlc ·river, nearly. Oifice-worlc.-'fo make the computations for the section; to complete the drawing of a thir<l sheet of the Cltesapealce bay, and to commence the second series; to complete a sheet of the general coast chart of the outer coast; to complete the engraving of the first sheet of Cltesapealce bay, and of a general chart of the upper section of the bay,-will require ...........····· 33,000 SECTION IV. Coast of Nortlt Oarolina.-To make the reconnaissance required in this and the next section; to continue the primary triangulation over Pamplico sound; the secondary triangulation northward, nearly to its connexion with tlu~t of the Chesapeake; to complete the tertiary trjangulat10n of Co?;e sound, and connect it with Beaufort harbor;, to contmue the triangulation of the Cape Fear river; to complete the topography of the ocean shore from Hatteras to Ocracolcc, aud of Currituck sound and the ocean shore northward, to.beyond the Virgi~1ia and North Carolina line; to complete the hydrography of Currituck sound to the limits of the ·triangulation; to continue that of Pamplico sound and Ocracolce inlet; to contim1e that of the entire · coast between Cape Hatteras and Cape Fear; to continue that of the Cape Fear river to Wilmington, (N. C.); to mnko the observations in the Gulf Stream in this section. Oificeworlc.-To complete the drawing of the chart of Albemarle,

S,' Doc. 3.

24'·

Oroatan, Roanoke, and part of Oierrituclc sounds ; to continue the engraving of the :first sheet; to draw and engrave the chart of Ca1w Fear entrance, of the Fryingpan shoals, &c.,will require · · . · · · . · · · . · . · . . . ... · · · . · · · · . · · . . . . . . . . . $25,000 &cTION V. Coa$t of Soutli Oa?·otina and Georgia. Ji"icld worlc.-To continue the secondary triangul~tion from its present limit eastward to Cluirlcston, and westward from Beaufort, South Carolina; to complete the trinngulation of the Savannah entrance and river, and of Calibogue sound; to continue the primary triangulation eastward to Olwrlc.~ ton; to complete the topography of Kia.wait, Jamcs's and Joltn' s islands, and of the shores of Stono and Aslilcy rivers; to complete the hyclrography of St. llclcna and Calibog1te sounds, and to commence that of the ocean coast between Charleston harbor and Savannah entrance; to make the Gulf ~tream ex~loration in this section; to make tidn~ observations at Oltarlcston and Savamw1i entrance. Ojfice work.To make the computations required for the scct1011; to complete the drawing of Savannah river, the engraving of the chart of Charleston harbor, and of Savanna,/i harbor, entrance, and river, an<l of North Edisto harbor of refoge,will require. . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . · . . . . · . · . . . · · . . . . . . . 23,000 &cirrnN VI.. Ileefs, keys and coast of Ji'lorida.-See estimate for special appropriation, as provided for the three years last past. &oTION VIII. Coast of Alabama, Missis.~ippi, and Louisiana.-To continue the mnin and secondary triangulation southward from the. Oltandclcur islands towai·<ls the mouths of the Mississippi; to complete the connexion of Washington, Mobile and New Orleans, for difference of longitude by telegraph; and to make a triangulation of the principal entrances of the Delta of the Mississippi; to continue the topography of the shores of I'ontcltartrain and of the O!ianrlclcur islands and main; to continue the hydrography of Mississippi sound, an<l of Louisiana bay; to make tidal observations at several points on the coast of Louisiana. Office worlc.-'ro make the computations and reductions required by the field work of the section; to complete the drawings of the two eastern sheets of the map from Mobile entrance to the mouths of the Afi.ssissippi; the engraving of one sheet of Mobile bay, and the commencement of u second 26,000 &cTION IX. Const of 'l'exas.-'l'o continue the mo.in and secondary triangulation, to include part of Espirit?t Santo bay; to continue the topography westward, to include Mata.gordct bay; to continue the hydrography of the outer coast and of the entro.nces, and Matagorda bay, and the tidal observations at points of the coast. Qffecc work.-'fo complete the drawing of the map of Galve.~ton upper and lower bay~, and,to commence the first sheet of the general coast chart of 'l'exas,. to complete the engraving of the chart of Galveston entrance, and to commence that of Galveston.

S. Doc. 3.
·bay; to·make the computations and reductions required for · the work of the section,-will require.................. $21,000 SECTIONS X and XI. Western coast, California and Oregon.See estimate provided for, as last .Year, by special appropriation. Total, .exclusive of Florida reefs and keys, and of the western coast. . · · . · . · · . . · · · · . . . . . . . . · . . . · . · . . · . . . . . · . · 186,000
SECTION

To continue the survey of the Florida coast, Field worlc.-1' o complete the triangulation of the Walker keys; to continue that of the reef from Key Rodriguez southward and westward to Key Vacas; to continue the ilecondary triangulation of the western coast of Florida from Crystal nver southward; to complete the topography of the keys to the limits of the triangulation; to continue the hydrogmphy of the outer coast and reef, from Ajax reef southward. Office worlc.-To make the necessary computations and reductions; to complete the drawing of Boca Grande passage, and Bahia Honda, and the engraving of the chart of Key West harbor and the approaches ; and sketches of the Boca Grande passage and Baltia Honda-will require SECTIONS X and XI. 'l'o continue the survey of the western coast, Oregon and California. Field work.-To determine the geographical positions, absolute and relative, of the most important capes and heaJlands in Ca1ijornia, and Oregon; to complete the triangulation of San Francisco and San Pablo bays, &c., and of Santa Barbara sound; to complete those of the several harbors already examined; to continue that of the Columbia ri,ver, and of Puget's sound; to complete the topography for the harbor charts already commenced, and for the sites of light-houses; to complete the hydrography of the Columbia river; to continue that of San Francisco bay, of Monterey, Santa Barbara, &c.; to complete the general examination of the harbors of the coast and to revise the general reconnaissance of the coast. Office worlc.-To make the computations and reductions; to complete the drawings and engravings for the sites of lighthouses, and of the examinations of harbors; to continue those of Sari Francisco bay, Monterey, and the revised reconnaissance; to provide for the drawing and engraving of sketches received; for the engraving of the revised general coast reconnaissance; of the Columbia river survey; of Santa Barbara sound, &c.,-will require ............ . The appropriation for the western coast will include the necessary repairs and expenses of. a steam-vessel, an<l will add one party to tl1ose operating in that quarter. The a:ppropriation for the coast of the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico in 1860-51, was .·..·.·.···.·...·····..·....·· For the Florida reefs, keys, and coast ..·....··.··.··..·· For the western coast, including the cost of a steam-vessel .·
VI.
reef~ and keys.

$30,000

160,000

180,000 30,000 190,000

For the next yeol'-"the present fiscal yeat-·the npproprintioni; were 11everally $180,000, $30,000, and $100,000. I nrn sntislied, from ex.. perience, that the sums now asked are ns small a.s, with the most eco... nomical administration of the survey, the work marked out can be ex.. ecutcd for; requiring u close o.nd constant cnre to make them · these r~sults. 'rhe plan of operation is in u. degree deranged, nn( the relartive parts mnke a progress not udupted to en.ch other, when the amounts are· lessened ; besides which, a portion of the work is necessarily cut oft· and tho survey makes slow progress. I nm of opinion thn.t true economy in such a work is to be foun<l by enlarging the operations, tlms increasjng the division of labor. 'fho work being of a temporary character, the enlargement of its expenditures is more than made up to the treasury by its less duration. · I proceed, next, to give n, more pnrticuinr account of the operations ~ the sevcrul sections of the coast, derived from the reeorts of the asm~tants and others employed ; prefacing the more detnilcd statements · With remarks on the progress of the section, an<l on the more interesting general results. The incidental notices of the office-work which thus ~cur in connexion. with ~he iections, are followed by 11 complete detail of the progress in its vunous <lepurtments. . A table of occuRntion of the .field nnd hydrographic parties is ~vcn 111 the Appc11<lix, (No. 1,) showing their distribution during the diflerent seasons appmpriute to surveying different parts of the cmi.st. The light-hous~ work C'l\ecuted in the different sections is stated in tho general tahle, (Appendix, No. 16,) and more in detail under the ben.d of each geographical aection of the coast. In the Appendix to this report, Nos. 13 to 14 bis, inclusive, will be found the instructions of the 'l'rcusury Dcpnitment, and. the general correspondence on the subject of light-houses, &e.; special re1l01ts being els~whero given in tho Appondi_x, in connesfo1~ with tJ10 section to wl;1c? they refer. Tho Ap.renchx No. 16 contnms u circuhir to 1he cluefs of hydrog~aphic parties, rcforri~g to a con::municution .from the secretm·y of· the Llght~bouse Board, n.slnng suggestions for tho unprove-ment and extension of the present light·house establishmeut, and extracts from the replies.
&oTION I.-FnoM PASSAMAQUODDY DAY ':rO POINT JUDI'rlI, INCLUDING l'HE COAS'.r OF MAINE 1 NEW HAM.PSI:IIRE 1 MASSACBlJSETTS 1 AND JlHODB

IBLAND.-(Sketch A.)

. The m(w appropriation having been 11vnil11ble from the very begin~ mng of the fiscal year, the work in this section has made vcr"g goocl prog1. ·ess. Two triangulation, three topographical, und two bydroN graphic parties, were at work during neurly the whole of tllC season; on~ of the triangulation parties mnking nlso the astronomical ?nd mag-nettc .0 hfiervations connected with the primary work; ·two. of the topogro.ph~cal Pll;rties using each two plane tables; and one of the bydrog1:aphw pru:t1es havfog, fo1· the greater pal't of the tini~, three vcsselsono of them a steamNvessel. '1.'he primary triangulntlon was extended
to Cnpc Small Point, at the mouth of the Kennebec, urnl tho rcconnnisea.nco for it beyond the :Penobscot. The· secon<lury triangulation wns

28

S. Doc. 3.

completed to Portland. The topography of'Cape Cod, Cape Ann, and Newburyp01t harbor, in Massachusetts, was nearly completed. The hydrography of Nantucket shoals was continued; that of Salem, Chatham, Portsmouth, and Newburyport harbors completed; off-shore work off lllock island and Gay Head was executed; and tides and currents were observed near the Elizabeth islands, in the Vineyard sound and Buzzard's bay, at Holmes' Hole, Salem, Newburyport, and Portsmouth. The permanent tidal station at Charlestown, Massachusetts, has been kept up, and observations for several lunations have been made in Salem, Portsmouth, and Newburyport harbors. The office-work hafj made corresponding progress. · Accompanying this report (sketch A, No. 3) is a current chart, showing the nature and results of observations of previous years in the harbor of Boston. The preliminary chart of Richmond's Island harbor, issued to meet .. the wants of the Committee on Commerce, has given place to a more complete map. During the great gale of April last, the violence of which wae ~pecially felt on the coast of Massachuietts, an opening was made through Chatham beach, (see sketch A,) giving a more direct and deeper entrance to the harbor of Chatham than had previously, at least of la~ years, existed. This attracted much attention, and hopes were entertained that a harbor of refuge might thus be obtained a.t a point where one was much needed. I incorporated in the instructions of the season directions to examine Chatham harbor, and if the bar and entrance were found in a moderately permanent condition, to make a complete survey of it. The topographical party of Assistant J. B. Gli.iek was instructed to complete, without delay, the shore line; and Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull to take some convenient opportunity, towards the close of his operations in the Vineyard sound, to make the desired examination. This wa~ promptly executed .. The greatest depth which he found could be earned over the bars, at ltzglt water, was eleven foet; the rise and fall of the tide being about four and a half foet. There is deep water-in one spot twenty-two feet at low water-near the village of Chatham. The changes from week to week in the outer bar, he was satisfied, were such that a chart could not be made which would be of se1vice to navigatjon. He accordingly reco~me.nded the postpone. r~ent of the survey until a more permanent cond1t1on was reached; makmg, meanwhile, quite a carefol examination, which has been plotted, and the chart representing which has been placed on file in the oflice, where it ma:y be consulted by, or copied for, those who are especially intere.sted m the matter. The occupati?n of some twelve more stations will complete the pri mary triangulation to the northeastern boundary. The reasons which render it more expedient to employ a party only during part of the season for this purpose, have been frequently stated. 'rho primary triangulation is still in advance of the secondary, though, in consequence of the desirableness of prompt surveys of some of the harbors in the more eastern part of the section, that· 'Operation has been pushed well forward. The difficult and comparatively expensive hydrography of the Nan..

S. Doc. 3.
tuckct shoals, has delo.yed the hydrography beyond my calculations; The trn.nsfor of one of the so.uthern hydrogrn.phic parties to this sectio1} formed part of my plan for the past season, which wus interrupted by causes beyond my control, and which it is not necessary here to stute. '£he plan is only deforred, not given up. The examination for a base of verification w'ill be made next season, or in the following one; and, should a suitable one be found, the trianguhttion will be directed in reforence to a junction with it. ~rhe tides, and currents resulting from them, in the passa!Yes between the Elizabeth islands are alto~ether peculiar, and require close investi~ gation. On one side of the islands the rise and fall belongs to Buzzard's bay; and on the other side to the Vineyard sound. 'l'he Buzv:ar<l's bay tide is propagated through the entrance between Cuttyhunk and Sagh1mnnet Point. (See sketch A.) The two chief passuges used by vessels between the Vineyard sound and Buzzard's bay are Wood's Hole !lnd Quicks' Hole. 'l'he plan which I sketched for determining the facts in regard to the tides ,was the establishment of three tide-gauges, to be ?bserved during the same period on the north side of the Elizabeth isla,nds at Wood's Hole, Kettle cove, and Quicks' Hole; and on the south side ut Wood's Hole, 'l'arpaulin cove, and Quicks' Hole. These ~bservations would give the correspon<l~ng phenomena a!1d thci~· prog... less b{'twcen the two passages, and, bemg completed snt1sfactonly, .the gauges from Kettle und Tarpaulin coves were to be removed to pomts nearly midway, or, better, at or near the point of i~eeting o~· the tides from the bay and sound, between the two gauges. m Wood s and the two in Quicks' Hole, so as to determine the relation of the movement in these passages. '!'his plan has been satisfactorily carried out during the present seuson, except that three days of simultaneous hourly observations, which I considered essential to its completeness, could not be made on account of the boisterous character of the weather . . During the season I had repeated conferences with the chiefo of par'!' ties in this section when the diversified op(.)rutions required it, but ma<le no special inspection. 'l'he inspection uf u portion of the operations ~as mnde by l\li~jor I. I. Stevens, of the corps of engineers, nssistr.mt ln cburge of the office. In 1849, u special expedition for the det:ennination of the diflinence of .longitude between the coast survey stations and Buropca.n obscrvatones was organized an<l reported upon. During the following year the re~luction of the observations was made, so as to draw upon the exp~nence of that operation for improvement in a subsequent one. Dunng the past season the second trial has been made, the genernl results of which will be stated in their place from the report of Pro· fessor W. C. Bond, director of the Cambridge observatory, by whoin, l1l concert with Mr. Hartnup, director of the Liverpool observatory, the work has been executed. A!·ran.gemcnts have also been mo.de, through Professor Bond, for c~111nectmg th.e. coast survey of the United States with th~ surv~ys making by the ~r 1t1sh government in Nova Scotia. The occas~on w1l~ be taken to ?ht?m the. longitude, by ~ele$ro;l~h, ~f Bangor, in Mflme, ~1111upo1:tunt pomt m .e.ve1y respect, wlule fac1htatmg the cQilnex1on of Cambndge ~cl Hahtax.. 'l;h~ thl,\nks of the Survey are due to H. O. Alden, esq.,

30

S. Doc..s.

the president of the Maine Telegraph Company, for assistance rendered in these operations. (See Appendix, No. 18.) The appropriations for light-houses, beacons, buoys, &c., embraced in the bill approved March 3, 1851, for localities within this section, were the following: "Maine.-1. For buoys on White's and Thom's ledges, and on Pond Island reef, at the mouth of the Kennebec river, three hundred dollars. "2. For a light-house on Pond island, at the entrance of Narraguagus bay, four thousand dollars. "Massaclmsetts.-3. For a light-boat on the Shovelful shoals, off Chatham, twelve thousand five hundred dollars. "4. For eleven buoys in the channel to Commercial point and Neponset river, in Dorchester, one thousand dollars. "5. For a light-house at the head of Holmes' Hole harbor, three thousand five hundred dollars. "6. For a beacon on Fawn bar, near Deer island, Boston tmrbor, two thousand five hundred dollars. "7. l!'or two iron spindles on the northeast ledge of the Graves, and on Harding's ledge, Boston harbor, two thousand dollars. "Rltode lslctnd.-8. For a light-boat off Brenton's reef, fifteen thousand dollars." Examinations of all these were required, under the law, by the Fifth Auditor, and were made, according to the instructions from tho Treasury Department, under my direction. My reports will be found in the Appendix, (Nos. 19, 20, 21, and 22,) accompanied by those of the assistants of the, survey to whom the examinations were reforred, (Lieutenants Commandins- Charles H. McBlair and Maxwell Woodhull, United States navy,) which contain all the details necessary to an understanding of the subject. In every case n thorough examination of the localities was made, wherever the coast survey extended, by the aid of its charts, and the reports state folly the requirements of navigation in reference to the objects embraced in the bill. 'rhe buoys at the mouth of the Kennebec (No. l) were recommended to be immediately placed, (July 28.) 'l'he light-house on Pond island, Narraguagus bay, (No. 2,) was also recommended to be erected, to contain a revolving light. A light-boat on the southeast extremity of Shovelful shoals, off Chatham, (No. 3 ;) a beacon on Fawn bar, near Deer island, (No. 6 ;) and two iron spindles on the Graves and Harding's ledges, Boston harbor, (No. 7,) and the light-boat off Brenton's reef, (No. 8)-wererecommende<l to be placed. The buoys in the Neponset rivc·r (No. 4) had already been reported upon favorably from the office of the Coast Survey. Instead of the light-house at the head of Holmes' !!ole, three small beacon-lights, (techi;iicallJ: .calle? '.'buglights,") for ranges, were recommended, and their ~os1t1ons 111<11cated on a chart. It was supposed that the three beacon-lights could be put up for the amount of the appropriation for a single light-house. A fog-whistle for the lig,ht-house on Petit Menan island, instead of the present fog-bell, and a buoy on Thomas' reef, near '£hom's reef~ at the entrance of the Kennebec-objects for which an appropriation had been made-were reported as desirable. 'l'he reports of the examining officers not only show that there are

S. Doc. 3.

81

good reasons for estahlishin.!? the facilities to navigation provided in the act of Congress for this section of the coast, but give collaterul information and facts of very considerable interest, adding much to our knowledge of the coast. In a communication, in reply to questions from the Light-house Board, Lieutenant Commnnding McBlair presents the following sul~jccts for consideration: 1. 'l'he substitution of a light-house 011 the ledge culled Sow-and-Pigs, off Cuttyhunk, at the cntrn.nce to Buzzard's bny, for tha ~ight-boat now placed there, and the light-house now existing on the lsland of Cuttyhunk; (see sketch A.) 2. '!'he placing of a floating ~eacon on Davis' New South shoal; (see sketch A, No. 2.) 'l'his shoal hes near one of the most frequented parts of the ocean, and has occasioned some very disastrous wrecks. It has as little as eight foet water upon it, is swept by very strong tidal cmrents, and, during the Aummcr inonths, is almost constantly hidden by fogs. It was designed u.t one time to erect a beacon upon it; but the great diHiculties of the undertaking, arising from the character of the climate nnd the distance of ~e nearest port, seem to be regarded as insuperable. It is, however, ~ndispensable to the sufoty of passing vessels that it should be marked in as distinct a manner as circumstances will admit. 3. A buoy-boat on tlre Great ltip, one of the most extensive of the Nantucket shoals. 4. A buoy-boat on the sand shoal lying to the eastward of the northern end of llnss Rip. 6. A spar-buoy on the sand-spit extending from l!'ox's Point, Nashawena island, at the southern entrance of Quicks' Hole; (see sketch A.) G. A wooden beacon, (to be painted black,) on Long island, Boston harbor, placed so as to range with the northeast end of Spectacle island, for the su.fo navigation of the main ship channel; (see sketch A;) recommended also Ly Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. Davis, in 1847. 7. A similar beacon on tho southeast part ?£' Long island, Boston harbor, to range with Nix's Mate, and to facilitate the passage through the Broad 8ound channel. 8. A Luoy-boat on the southwest encl of Billingsgate shoal, Manchester bay, und two spur-buoys on the southern edge of tho shoal, pluntctl at regular inter'Vi~ls between the boat nt1d Billingsgate island. 9. A spar-huoy on ~1bb Hock, southward and westward of W ellflect harbor. 10. Changes ~n the position of the lights ut Chatham, to udupt them to the change· in the coast there. · These recommendations are fully concurred in, us his field of work hns e:K~ended, by Lieutenant Commanding Swartwout, who commanded the brig W ushington, attached to Lieutenant Commanding l\IcBlair 1 s party. In connexion with t\1is sul~ject I present the following extract from a report (November, 1850) of Lieutenant Commanding l\luilitt, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey: "1 examined a rnck in the main ship channel, .Boston harbor, nenr the bu~y of the Lower Middle, upon which the British mail stenn;ship Cambna struck, und found it to be identicul with a rock nlrcudy found on the Coa:st Survey chu.rt to be seen in tlwork of 1847.'' !lcconna!ssancc.-It bus been necessary 'Wrcly to extend the recon~!Ussance m this. section, durin~ the presenfseason, to ~uc r:mge of stations beyo~d the I~enobscot, m order to prevent pr~s~1blc rntcrfcrence with the pnma.ry tnangulation of the ne"t season. 'I lus has been done

32

S. Doc. 3.

by assistant C. O. Boutelle, and the result is shown on sketch A. The fact that, if necessary to the work, either from the position of the final base of verification in this section or other cause, a point can be found on the Ebeeme mountains readily connected with the coast, has been ascertained. Mr. Boutelle also established the station on Ragged mountain, (Camden mountains.) He was accompanied during his reconnaissance by Major Prince, United States army, assistant in the coast survey. l\fr. Boutelle made, also, a reconnaissance for the main chain of secondary triangles over Casco bay in the course of the season. Primary triangulation, astronomical observations, ~c.-The party under my immediate charge was transforred to this section in July, and between the second of that month and the fifth of November two station! were occupied for geodetic and astronomical work, and one for astronomical observations. The magnetic variation, dip, and intensity, were measured at two of the stations; vertical angles were measured for height at the three; and a meteorological register was kept during the progress of the other observations. The area of the work, estimatecl m the usual way, was 2,402 square miles. I was assisted in the measurement of horizontal and vertical angles, and the azimuth determinations, by Lieutenant W. P. Trowbridge, of the corps of engineers; and the observations for time and latitude were made under my- immediate direction by sub-assistant George W. Dean. At Mount Pleasant station, (Oxford county, Maine,) 22 horizontal angles of the primary triangulation were measured by 1,300 observations, with the thirty-inch theodolite of Troughton and Simms, (C. S. No. 1,) 130 ve1tical angles for difference of height, with the micrometer of this instrument, and thirty for absolute elevation, by a six-inch Gamhey theodolite, (C. S. No. 34,) sets of six repetitions being employed. A signal was placed upon the highest pomt of Mount Washington, and observed upon whenever the atmosphere was clear. The azimuths were measured by seventy-two observations, in seven sets, on Polaris, near the upper and lower culmination, the method, re~ ferred to in my report of last year, of corresponding azimuths before and after culmination being used. The star was referred to a mark distant about three-quarters of a mile, nearly in a line to the Blue Mountain- station, between which and the mark the angle was measured by the micrometer. The observations were made with the thirtyinch theodolite, (C. S. No. 1,) and in five positions of the instrument. 'l'he latitude was determined by Tulcott's method, with 11 zenith telesco.re by Wurdeman, (C. S. No. 5,) which has been already rcforred to, havrng a focal length of forty-nine inches, an aperture of three and a half inches, and used with a magnifying power of six hundred. Two hundred and thitty-six observations were made upon forty-four pairs of stars, arranged from eighty-one stars taken from the Green:.. wich catalogue; using, also, as many as practicable of the stars ot which the places have determined by the Coast Survey zenith sector. The usual dete ation of tho value of the micrometer and level divisions of the instr · nt were made. 'l'he longest and shortest sides of the primary triang ation of the season were eighty-four and twenty-two miles, respectively.

!

··Some of the ·lines ,4fom"Mo1mti Bleasant· haviµg been ob:etructed by the erection of a new house ·upon the mountain, a second· station point ~as selected by, Mr. Boutelle,.about fift~"·Seven feet from the first1 and m the· line from-Sebattis to the 01·iginiil· station.. This distance was very carefully measured twice by a standard metre..bat placed on a .\Vooden frame; the two measurements scarcely·d. iffering. They wer'8 made by myself, assisted by. Lieqtenant Trowl;l#dge and Mr. Dean .... I was indebted for assistance, in posting heliotropers and other ar11angementsrto assistant C. 0. Boutelle and. Mr. Fairfield. Mr. Bou-. telle also obsetved for me during a .brief absence, on duty, from MoU1>lt Pleasant. . , "<At Ossipee station, (York county, Maine,) 15 horizontal angles were measured by l,470 obser¥atkms, with theodoli.te No. 11 and 12.8 vertical angles. for height, with its micrometer, .and wit4 the s~-inch Ga.xnbey theodolite, before referred to. ... . . .,. , At Cape Siµa].Lstation, (Lincoln co.qqty, Mi;i.lne,) ele~enobservations for azimuth · wet'e made on seven different da.ys. The observaP.ons ·~ere made .on.Polaris-s~ at upper culmination, four at eastern elongation, and one at we.stern elongat10~1.. . . .. ... 7'he observations £01· time ~d latitude, made under my direction by sub-assistant Gi:io. W. Dean, were as follows: ·. . . A.t Mount PleasanL station, 94: observations fo!· time, upon 16 .stars.., :pafred as high and low stars, with transit C. S. No. (), (Trough~~ 411.d Simms,)-1.he equatorial inte~vtlfs o( the, ~ir~.s,pf this instr~ment :Were deter.J:Jli~cl by .41 ohse,i;yaQ.9.J;lft~,.11.1.PQJl,.m stars. For lat.itu?,e1 ~86 observation~wei;e, ~a4..e,wi\tib: z~xuth telescop~ C. S. No. 5, (W urd.eman,) 1.lpon 44: sets of stars arranged from 81 a1ffercnt stars selected fJ.:om the Gi·eenwicl?, twelve-year catalogue. When the places of the staJ.·s have qeen determined with the zenith sector as well us at Green'!' ·Wich, equal weight has been given to each determination. Fo.r. tb,e value of the micrometer, 50 observations . were m11de upon Polaris:at ea.stern elongation, and 79 observations upon a collirnntor for v(i.}Qe of. le:vel scale. 1 . · · . :...,4t Cape Sroall statioq, with the.same instruments, 104 observations f01:.,time were made upon 14 stars, · u.nd 243 observations for latitude '1pon 40 sets a.nanged ,from 'W different stars.. Eor the val!le of the micrometer of the . zenith telescope, 91 observations were made upon Polaris at eastern elongation; Jot· value of level of same instrumel}t, ~S. observations 1,1pon a collimator, in the usual manner. .· /!'he.time of beginning imd end of the .solar eclipse of July 27,. 1~61. ,. were observed at Mount Pleasant station. . . :·· . 'li.r·The mi;ignetic observations made by sub-assista.nt Dean, assisted:by .u.ir·. Edward Goodfollow, at Mount Pleasant and, Cape Small,.were D;S fQllo~s: Eo1· declination, 13,2 observations on 9 different days,;.. for horr~ 2Pl'J.t~i~tensity:, 7 set.a on 7. days; and fol' dip, 5 sets on~ .i;ia.y~. 'fhe d;chnatioti.t11nd intensity were observed with the portabletfleqlinometer 0 ·b. Ga(uJ.s,e. ii..i"fi..·.e.h. e.r, as ar.ra,.uged by Pr . o.fes~9r··· L~o'· .· d ·.11.Jl4. Colon7l .sa... ', .ine,. oneRt<!No,. 22, C. S. No. l,) and the ;jlR$~ a,, Cll'.cle of eight

·

;~flbes, belong~~.~Q .tb~ Smi.tP~mun Inatituti~~~' ,;~/\ .. ·T.he meteorolqg~~HQ~er:vtL~ons ai .t~ea,~~J1St made by ~r. E.dWQ.rd GoodfeU3w and..:. .Mr· B·. F. We11tn(lQ»fiS~d. of 328 rending,. for

temperature of the.air, for moisture, (wet qulb tbermomater,) for p~s sure, (Alexander barometer,) and miscellanequs. , Aclditi0 nal observations were made eight ti1nes a day, on eight days, of the barometer, thermometer,. &c., by rf;lquest of Professor Arnold~ Guyot, of Cp.mbridge, to correspond with lu.s obs~rvations for height in th.e White mountains and the adjacent country. The height of the surface plane, as. shown by clouds resting on the Presidents' range,, was also noted from Mount Pleasant at his suggestion. These observations were made by Mr. Edward Goodfellow and Mr. B. F. West·. The following magnetic observations were made by assistant J, E. Hilgar<l, between the 16th and 31st of August. 'l'he localities in-_ clicate the charts to which the results of the variation will be applied.
Station·.
D11elin11tion.

Dip.

Intensity.

Bramhall's Hill, in Portland ········ 3 days 4 sets 2 sets., Kennebunk Port ····...··········· 3 " 3 " 2 '' , Cape Neddock. · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · · . · 3 " 3 " 2 " These observations complete the series as far east as Portland harbor.· The instruments used were the declinometer No. 20, by Jones, and a ni11e-inch diE-circle by Barrow, with reading microscopes and verniers.· Assistant S. C. Walker has collected, for convenient reference and compa;rison, all the. res.ults obtained by the transportation of chronome· ters for the differences of longitude of Harvard and Liverpool observatories. The data are those reported by William Cranch Bond, esq.,. director of the Harvard observat01y, for the Coast Survey, and those of the special chronometer expedition of 1849-60, undertaken by the Coast Survey, and under Mr. Bond's immediate direction. They areclnseified·as follows: 1. Results by chronometers making one western voyage, between Boston.and Liverpool, and on trial for the government, or for the com-· mercial marine. 2. Results by chronometers used in several western. voyages prior to 1849. 3. Results of the western voyages in the special chronometer expedition of 1849-60 (also reported by Professor Bond) with ordinary. chronometers. · 4. As class 3, but with selected chronometers. 6. Results of eastern voyages, otherwise as class 3. 6. As class o, but with selected chronometers. The indiscriminate mean of the results by these six classes gives for the longitude of Cambridge, west of Liverpool, 4 hours 44 minutes 39,96 seconds. . The services of W. C. Donel, esq., director of the Cambridge observatory, hnve been rendered to the Coast Survey in various astronomical observations, telegraphic and cl1ronometer operations, the nature· and progress of which may be· gathered from the following extracts fr(jm his repo1t: ''I have to report the observa.tion of thirty moon culminations, a, portion of which have been forwarded to. the Coast Survey l)ffice at. \Vashingto~, corresr,~nd~ng to similar observatio~s made n.t. Point·Pinos· and San D1ego, Califorma, by Coast 81.uvey assistant Davidson.

s:

Doc. 3.

"Twelve occultntions· of stnrs by the moon and onEl solar eclipse
hnve been observed at this place, the latter by four observers, each being furnis11ed with separate chronometers and instruments. The

telescopes used were of different kinds and powers, according to the su~gcstion of Mi-. Airy, in his paper of instructions relative to this· eclipse. '' The results which have been obtained by means of the electromagnetic apparatus for recording astronomical observations are quite satisfactory. This method of adapting the electric current to the wants of the us.tronomer, and which has grown up under the fostering care of· the Const Survey, is purely American., and is acknowledged as such in
Europe.

"The complete apparatus designed and ma.de by ourselves for the· coast survey, after having been tested at this observatory during several months, was,· with your consent, tnkeu to England, and put in operation, in l\l::iy last, at the Royal Astronomical Society's rooms in Somerset House, in' London, where it wns examined nnd tried by those who folt an interest in snch matters, this being considered the most ef· fectun.l course to pursue in order to convince nstronomers of the superior accuracy, cxpechtion, n.nd convenience of this method.· At the request of several distinguished scientific gentlemen, the coast survey npparntus was trnnsforred to the rooms of the British Scientific Assocmtion, at Ipswich; nnd, subsequently, we were urged to have it put up in the depmtment assigned to American inventions at the great Exhibition in Hyde Pal'k. As a l?roof of the estimation in which this is held, I may be allowed to mention that the Astronomer Royal is now engaged in introducing the 'American' method of recording into the observatory at Greenwich; and we hear, through the newspapers, that the councilmeclnl of the great Exhibition bus bcrn nwurded to our apparatus: it ~md previously obtnincll the gold mcdnl of the l\Iassacbusctts Mechanical Association. Vve have nearly completed n similar nppamtus for our own use nt this obscrvntor;v, in order more purticularly to observe ll'loon culminations, in connexion with your nppnratus, when it shall have been put in operation at the Seaton station, in \V nshi11gton. "'l'he chronometer expedition, which you put under my care, for· d~termining the differences of longitude of the observntories of GrcenW1ch, Liverpool, and Cambridge, closed for tho sen.son-so for as the' trunsfer of chronometers was concerned-on the nrrivnl of the 'steamer A:rnerica, on the 17th instant. \Ve have, this year, the data given for ~fforcnces of longitude by one hundred and ninety chronometers; these mst;umcnts aro now on trial for their subsequent rntcs, nnd will be' s~bJccted, for temperature corrections, to the cold of the npproaching
Winter. u According to your instructions, I hnvc mncle preliminary n.rrnngcments>fbr the counexion in Jongituclo, by means of thn electric tclegruph, of.the British surveys of the Buy of Furnly nnd Gulf of St. Lnwrcnce

with the· United States coast survey. Cmnmnn<ler Shortln11c] writes·
me thut he wiij, bo in readiness to meet us at Halifax the beginninrr of 0

Nov:emher." · ·· · In. this section, .wr:n .. Mitchell, esq., hns .also 'been engngcd in nstronom1cal observat1011s for the use of the coast survey. His l'csults for

the year consist of 200 pairs of zenith distances of stars, 37 moon colminating observations, 2 occultations, and 60 meridian transits for · · time. Secondary triangulation.-The scheme of secondary triangulation of the coast of New Hampshh-e and part of Maine, between the l'iscataqua nnd Saco rivers, commenced last year by Captain 'I'. J. Cram, United States topographical engineers, assistant in the coast survey, has been completed this season to the line Ossipee-Fletcher's neck, (see sketch A,) including its complete connexion with the primary work. The party took the field on the 20th of June, between which date and the 7th of October, to which Captain Cram's repo1t extends, 20 stations were occupied, and 952 sets of observations made on 199 points, consisting of stations, light-houses, steeples, &c, with the twelve-inch repeating theodolite of 'l'roughton & Simms, (C. S. No. 18.) Of these stations occupied, eight were in New Hampshire and twelve in Maino. Not less than six repetitions with the telescope direct, and six telescope reversed, were counted as a set; the total number of obse1-vations being 8,148. The area covered by the secondary triangulation proper, and including the triangles which connect it with the primary work, is 700 square miles. At the station marked "Mason" on the sketch, the instrument was elevated fifty-two feet above the ground, to avoid expensive cutting of the woods around it. Captain Crum reports the results of this experi· ment to be satitifactory. This work is connected with the secondary triangulation of the coast of Massachusetts, by assistant C. 0. Boutelle, on the southwest, at the line "Powow-Seabrook ;" with the secondary triangulation laid out for Casco bay, by the same assistant, on the line" Fletcher's neck-Ossipee:" it unites with the triangulation of Portsmouth harbor, by Captain Stans· bury, United States topographical engineers, on the line "Newcastle~ulpit rock," and is controlled ?Y the connexfo~ with the prima1y sta~ t1ons "Pattuccawa," "Agamenucus," and "Ossipee," and the stations "Isle of shoals" and "Fletcher's neck," observed upon in the primary series. In all the connexions reforred to, the importance of which is ably set forth in Captain Crarn's rC'port, there arc lines of verificatio'n', Captain Cram was engaged during the winter in copying in duplicate and in computing his work of the past season, as far as the data were complete; the entire office work was not, however, finished, before it was nece$sary to take the field; so that with the completion of the scheme of triangulation of this part of the coast this year, there is a considerable a.ccumulation of office-work. · After the .date of my report of last yeor, assistant C. 0. Boutelle completed his work .connecting the secondary triangula~ion of the coast of Massacbusetts with that of New Hampshire and Mame, erecting the necessary signals and measuring the angles, between the 1st of October and 8th of November. '.l'he number of stations occupied was 12, and 156 angles were measured, upon 164 objects, by 960 observa.tions. V ~rtical angl~s were also measure~ upon 38 objects, 59 zenith distances bcmg determined by 678 observations. The mstrument used in both cases was an eight-inch theodolite by Gambey, (C. S. No. 24.) In

s. Doc. a.
·r~ference to the metho'd of determining heights by observing zenith distances, Mr. Boutelle remarks: " The height above the mean level of the sea of the point of observation, in the tower of the Harris street church, (Newburyport,) haa been carefully determined. 'f ho plane of mean level of the sea wafl obtained by observations on seven consecutive tides in the Merrhnack river, at one of the Newburyport wharves. These were referred to a. bench·mark on the top of the wharf, from whence a series of levels was carried to the church. It is pleasant to be uble to state that the height of 'Powow hill,' determined from these observations, differed less than a foot from that obtained by a serjes of zenith dist1111ces, running thr~ugh many sides of triangles, from levels taken n.t Dorchester Heights n.nd Nantasket, in Boston hurbor." ,, Mr. Boutelle was assisted by Messrs. Fairfield and Gregorie. After closing this work, he proceeded to the office to prepare for the duty assigned him in Section V, of which nn account is given in its proper place. 1opography.-The topography hns employed two double parties and one s~ngle party during the chief pa.rt of the senson: one of the former Workmg on Cupe Cod, the other on Cnpe Ann, nnu the latter near Newburyport. The plane·table sheets urc shown on sketch A, arid are ~umbered 28, 31!, 37, 38, 39, nn<l 41. 'rbe urea embraced in them IS 66 square miles, nnd the extent of shore·lino 217 miles. The weather~ which hns been generally unfavorable ~or the operationa of the survey, has bee~ very favora~le t<? the ~xecution ~f the topo~ graphy. The nature ot the ground m this section makes it, however, t11e most difficult to represent, from its varied surface, and from the number of details required in many places by the closely settled char· actcr of the country. , A double party (that is, a party working two plane tables) under the <iharge of assistant II. L. Whiting, with Mr. IL M. Bache as assistant, has lieen occupied from the latter part of June until early in October, in Continuing the topographi<.ml survey of Cape Ann. Tho work is com· Prised in three sheets, Nos. 37, 3S, and 39, (sketch A,) and extends ~:rom Beverly farms, near Salem, along the south shore of tho cape to 2t.8 extremity; and on the eastern shore to Halibt1t Point, the northeastern point of the en.pc. The area embraced is 35 square miles, the ~tent of shore-line GO miles, nnd the extent of coast measured, in itil general direction, about 18 miles. The topography includes Manche&ter nnd Gloucester hal'bors, nnd Rockport, and extends from the sl1ore to the nearest rond in the interior, thus including ne1u-ly all the area b etwee11 the wnter~line and the rocky aml woo(led portion of. Cape Ann, until near the ea.'ltcrn portion, when it einbrnccs tho h1.ghcst gro1md of the cape. The~ difficult chnrn.cter of this survey will be understood from Mr. Whiting's general description of tbe topography of the cape: "'fi1c character of the country is broken e.nd ro~ky · 'fhe ra!'r of pills forming the .back·hone, ns it were, of t?e cape, is covered \Vit ~a mixed growth of pme, m1k 1 mn.J?le, &c. 1 nnd 1s generally unsus-<;eptible ?f cultivation; the land is sterile, and among ~be VHlleys and broken ndges are numerous swamps. 'l'he average height of the hilla.

S. Doc. 3 .
.and ridges is from 150 to 200 feet, with occasional peaks of 226 and 230 feet. · "The extremity of Cape Ann, including the townships of Gloucester and Rockport, is nearly an island, formed by the inlet of Gloucester harbor and nver from the south, and Annis Squam harbor and river from the north. These w.aters nearly unite; and formerly a canal was opened, making a communication between them; but the tide meeting from the two entrances and the shoal waters of Squam river made it of little service; and now the main road to the peninsula is diked across the canal, entirely closing it. " The interior of the peninsula is lightly wooded among the hills and swamps, but generally barren of foliage. The .land first seen from sea .is 'Poole's hill,' about 230 foet high. Pigeon hill is about 195 feet.; but being quite near the shore, is soon made from sea. Rail-cut hill is about 210 feet, and near Gloucester harbor. "The.character of the shore and waters of Cape Ann is more bold and broken than any thus far surveyed in this section." · The shores of the extremity of Cape Ann are bold and abrupt. " Coasting vessels, in rounding the cape, puss quite near the shore; anJ the harbor of Gloucester is quite deep in comparison with similar · waters to the westward. " There are some dangerous ledges and rocks off the eastern point of the cape, the ' Salvages,' the 'Londoner/ &c.; but the lights of Thatcher's island arc suffi<.:ient guides to navigators in avoiding them., .and I believe but few wrecks or disasters occur to vessels in passing the cape. "The character of the topography has been of the most complicated and intricate kind, the details in contour, outline of shore, &c., being the greatest yet surveyed in this section. The artificial details in the towns of Manchester, Gloucester, an<l Rockport, are also very greo.t.'> The work in Beaufort .harbor, North Carolina, by Mr. Whiting, is described under the head of Section IV; he is now under instructions to proceed to Savannah river, (Section V.) A double party, under charge of assistant J. B. G!Uck, with Mr. W. S. W ulker as aid, was at work on Cape Cod from the latter part of .July to the close of October; at first on the sheet No. 28, in the vicinity of Chatham, and next on No. 3H, near Welfleet. Up to the first of October, the area survt:yed was eleven and five-eighths square miles, and the extent of shore-liue 72 miles. In his report, Mr. Gli.ick remarks: "In illustration of the intricate nature of topography upon ;Sheet No. 28, Cape Cod, I would state here, that an ,area of only 7t :square miles contains not less thnn 162 hill-tops, 143 hollows, and 21 ponds of larger and smaller size, with hills from 10 to 100 foet high, the representation of which forms a most complicated system of hori.2011tal curves; a circumstance which shoulcl explain satisfactorily the oomparatively small amount of area surveyed upon Cape Cod." The ,shore-line of Chatham harbor was furnished to the hy<lrographic party :who made the examiuation there. On the Welficet sheet, (No. 31!,) Mr. Glilck surveyed 6! square Jniles, and determined 18 miles of shore-lines closing his work in this

d' ~;

n. '. "' v60. t>·

section, ancl transferri:ng his party lo the Pntnpscb (Section Ill) nt the close of October. · The surveying dm1e 1)y Mr. GWck -in Sections II (for lig!Jt.;houses in ~ew York harbor) and III (Patapsco river,) will be found noticed in its appropriate plnce. · · · Assistant A. W. Longfellow commenced the execntion of the Mp~ graphy of Newburyport harbor on the 16th of August, and will dis·charge his party about the 20th.of November. Up to the 1st of November ~e has surveyed an atea of 13rr squnre miles, nncl nn extent of shoreline of 67 miles. The work was begun on Plumb island, and inclurled, first, the immediate shore-line of the hn.rbor an.d approaches, which Were furnished at once to the sounding porty, for use in their operntions. !ft includes the wharves and principal streets of the city, and will comprise, this sen.son, all that is necessary for a hnrbor map. The 'plane-table sheet of this work is numbered 41 on the sketch A. Hydrograpln1.-The party under the command of Lieutenant Charles JI. McBlair, Unitet{ States navy, assistant in the coast survey, commenced work about the close of June, and finished about the mi<ldle ·of October. (See sketch A, Nos. 1 and 2.) The continuation of the 'hydro~aphy of Nantucket shoals .formed the first ol~ject.of the season i. next, the completion of the work m Muskegct chnnnel, for the chnrt oi thnt ·pas1mge, which is nearly pr<'pnrrd for publication; next, some l>uppfementary work between Martha's Vineyard and Block island, for the off-shore chnrt, which is also nearly engraved; and last, the completion of the hydrography of Salem ha1·bor. The progress mnde, to September 25, is stritecf by Lieutenant Commanding McBlair in his annual report, as follows; . "The hydrography of the shonfa wns prosecuted between the 3d 1.fuly and 8th September; that of the Mmikcget channel, between the 9th and 13th of September; and the remaining ~eriod, between the Inst date and the present time, has been occupied m the filling-in work to the westward of Martha's Vineyard. "'l'he results obtained in the diffcrnnt sections are exhibited in tho annexed tables. (See sketch A, Nos. 1 and 2.)
1. Field <if work.-Nantuckct Shoals.

Art-n included within sounding limits . · · · . · · . . . . 130 ~q_nare miles~ Ext . . · . . . · . . . . . . · · · . · · . . . 2""' N·. ent of soun<l'mg l'mes. o.., tm1 es. · Dnmber of casts of lend ·...·..··.·..·.·.·..·. 2,622 epth of water ··········.····· varying from 13 foet to 23 fathoms.

2. Field <if worlc.-MrMlccgct clumncl and approaches.
AEren. within sounding limits ............. ~ · · · · · · · 43 sq_uare miles. · "o·Ull<l' Nxtent of . ., 111g l'nes l ··········· ··· · · · · · · · · · 108 ,tniles· Dmnber of casts of lead ·······.·······..··.·. .9;956 cpth of water ······.·········· varying from 6 feet to 21 fathoms.

S: Doc.· 3f
3. Field of work.-Between Block Island a'nd ·Gay· Head. Area within sounding limits. ~ . · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · · 106 square miles. Extent of sounding lines ················.·.· ~. 146 miles. Number of casts of lead ··.···.....·····.····· 1,000 General depth of water. · . · · · · · · · · · · · · . · . · · · · · 18 fathoms. ''The hydrography of the Nantucket shoals (sketch A, No. 2) embraced the completion of the survey of the shoal to the north and west of Davis's bank, the re-examination and continuance of the survey of Davis's bank, and the determination of a part of Fishing Rip. "The shoal north of Davis's bank is only separated from the Great Rip by a narrow slue, and may be regarded as merely the southern extremity of that shoal. "Davis's bank is found to extend upwards of seven miles to the southward of its supposed limits in that direction, but our opportunities did not enable us to reach and determine its extreme southern point. The Fishing Rip is only $enerally established as to position. "To determine its outline, extent, shoalest water, and general characteristics, will require a more extended and minute examination than it was in our power to bestow on it during the season. "The past summer has been marked by an extraordinary prevalence of fogs and gales, which have seriously interrupted our operations, and limited the results." On closing this part of the work Lieutenant Commanding McBlair, in the steamer Bibb, proceeded to Wellfleet to examine changes which were alleged to have been made, in the great storm of April last, in that harbor. The verification of the hydrography did not show such changes. The party next completed the hydrography of Salem harbor; and the means disposable for this portion of the work being exhausted, the steamer was laid up at Boston, and the officers, detailed for office duty, reported for the discharge of it at the Coast Survey office in W ashingt.on. The supplementary report of Lieutenant Commanding McBlair states the work in Salem harbor as follows: " The survey embraces the harbor and approaches of Salem, Beverly, Manchester, and Marblehead. "It has been executed almost altogether in boats, and necessarily with more than usual minuteness, in consequence of the numerous ledges and shoals which obstruct the passages. "We commenced operations on the 3d instant, and finished on the 16th. The following table exhibits the amount of work porformed, and . the results obtained : Area within limits of sounding lines.-'. · · · . · · · · 21 square miles. Number of miles of soundings................ 176 Num her of casts of lead ··..············.·.· 7,424 Depth of water sounded in ..·.·.··...·. from 3 feet to 23 fathoms. "Observations were made in the main ship-channel, to determine the direction and force of the current." Lieutenant Commanding Swartwout, in the brig Washington, was detached, for a part of the season, in this section, upon the survey of No-Man's-Land channel, between the island of that name and Martha's

:Vineyard island, and also upon off-shore soundings, between the meridians of Gay Head and Beaver Tail. The survey comprised an area of 14 square miles, in which 1,200 soundings were made, and 81 angles observed, the depth of water varying from 8 feet to 11 fathoms. '£he off-shore work consisted of 160 soundings, over 3 lines, the total length of which was 176 miles. ~n execution of his instructions, Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull, Pn1ted States navy, assistant in the coast survey, in the schooner Madison, has occupied 8 stations in the Vineyard sound, (see sketch A,) and 2 at the entrunce of the passages between Buzzard's bay and the sound, for currents, and 9 stations for tides. The tidn.l observations, during two lunations, were made at eight points as nearly identical as practicable with those at which partial results were obtained last year, and after this period two of the gauges were removed to points near the middle of the length of the passage, Quicks' and Wood's Holes, and simultaneous observations were again made. Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull states, in bis report: "During the observations I had all due care and attention paid to the regulation of the time. I visited the stations frequently, to see that the duty was faithfully and carefully performt'd. The books have been Well kept; observations of wind and weather have been made at all the stations. The barometer and thermometer have also been recorded With great care, both at Quicks' and Wood's Holes; in fact, I feel satisfied, as far as I could control circumstances, nothing has been neglected to iMure favorable results. The ti<ltll observations have been conducted agreeably to your directions in every respect, save observing them every hour for three consecutive days. I made all my arrangements to comply with your instructions in this particular, but did not succeed, owing to the constantly unfavorable state of the weu.tber during nearly the whole of the time comprised in the two lunntions." 'l'he current observations made are thus referred to; (see also :&ketch A): · "In connexion with the above, the observations of currents received my attention, and, I think, will prove satisfactory. The currents were observed during the first lunation at Nos. 2, lo, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20. On the second lunation, Nos. 3, 7, 10, lo, 16, 17, 18, and 19. · "When the stations were occupied the weather was calm, occasionally foggy, with a rather smooth sea. 'I'his state of the weather, though i:ot highly fovoruble, was sufficiently so to ascertain the correct directions and force of the currents. Four consecutive tides were ta.ken at each of these stations, two ebbs and two floods, and the velocity on. tho surface and fifteen feet below it. You will perceive I did not fail to take advantage of all the good weather that offered, and the results have been nearly twice that of last year, and four times as great as those of the year before." . ' The number of observations of tides was 2,817 during the yeur, n.nd .of cu1·1·~nts 978 on 16 days. . . Leavmg ~he t\dal observations in chn.rge of a part of the officers of his party, Lieutenant Com1nanding Woodhull pro9eeded to Chatham harbor and made the preliminary sui·vey to which I huve o.lrea.dy

aJluded.

The party ne'lCt executed the soundings of the· .approach to Portt!mouth harbor, New Hampshire, and of the intricate channel behind the navy-yar~ at Kitte11'.', Maine. 'rhe area of the oif-sh~re work was ·77 square miles, extendmg to the Islo of Shoals; 231 mdes were run in S?~nding, 4,100 ca~ts of the deep-sea :l~ad made, and 380 angles for pos1t1on observed. Lieutenant Commandmg Woodhull states that the .irregularities of the bottom arc such as to render the soundings of com·parativdy little value in determining the position of a vessel on this part of the coast in thick weather. 'l'lie tides will be observed at Ports:. mouth during at least :two lunations. . The harbor of Newburyport, Massachusetts, and the approaches, have a~so been sounded out,. by this party, seawar~, between three and .four miles, and about two miles and a half on both sides of the entrance, "The inside work extends from the bar to about a mile and a half .above the railroad bridge; in all, a distance of three and a half miles, varying from three~eighths to one-half a mile in width." The area. embraced is .20 square miles, cin which 7,600 casts of the lead have ·been made, 176 miles have been run in sounding, and 632 angles for position observed. Tidal observations will also be kept up at Newburyport. Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull is now (October 10) under instruc;. tions to proceed to Connecticut river for tbe re-examination of the en-trance, and the work done will be stated in his supplementary report. In his report of the season's work, Lieutenant Commanding Wood· .hull pays a well-merited compliment to tbe zeal and industry of the officers of :µis party, through whom so large an amount of work has been accomplished.
SECTION II.-FnoM POINT JUDITH To oArE HENLOPEN, INCLUDING THE COAST OF CONNECTICUT, l!EW YORit, PENNSYLVANIA, AND l'Alt'r OF DELAWARE.-(Sketch B.)

The field-work of this section bas been of the usunl miscellaneous character; parties being occasiona1ly ocCUJ?i!'Jd, as they could best be spared from other sections, in filling up portions remaining unexecuted, or in revision where it has been found necessary. The office-work has advanced according to the estimates and plans for it at the beginning of the year; and the deta.ils will be found under the head of" OJficework" in .this report. Eighteen finished maps and charts have been .published of this section, (three of which during the year,) besides two sketches. In the immediate necessity for practical results for our work, it is .often expedi~nt to postpone. questions of in~erest? wh~ch have a. less im· portant bearing, and )'.Ct without t~e solution ?f whic.h the survey will be incomplete. Of this character ~s t.he que~t1~n of tides and currents at a distance from the coast, but w1thm the limits proper to the hydro· .graphy, the form o~ the bottom of the sea, and the lik~. Sections were made two years smce for the off-shore n;ap, embracmg the space· be· tween Gay Head and Cape Henlopen, which showed the curious 1·esult of the sudden and rapid slope of the bottom of the sea, after the depth of one hund;red fathoms was.reached. This ye~r I ha':e att~mvtcd the other quesuon, and have given the necessary 111struct10ns for ·1ts sdlu·

tion at stations within the limits of the ·same chart, but the stormy c1iatacter of the season has materially interfered with their execution. This ofi~shore chart being the .first of a series, the mode of arranging the details has occupied much attention; and ench case requiring 1<tudy, 1ancl not being a matter of routine, much more time has been unnvoid.ably consumed than will be necessary in another chart. Successive . improvements have been made, rendering the chart more vnluuble, but :tending to delay the publication. It is now, however, certuin that all ·the essential data for publication have been procured, so that n. first .edition can be issued; leaving those refinements which it is proposed .to introduce till a later period. The items in the light-house bill referred to me for cxnminntien, unde1· the law of March 3, 1851, by the instructions of the Treasury Department, were the following: "Cunnccticut.-For a can-buoy on Penfield reef, off'Black Rock harbor, in Long Island souncl, in addition to a former appropriation in the act of September, 1850, one hundred and thhty-five dollars. "Nr:w York,-Ii'or a light-house on Flynn's knoll, near Sandy Hook, thirty thousand dollars. "For 11 light-house on the northern extremity of Gardiner's island, six thousand dolhtrs. "For tho completion of two beacons near Fort Hamilton, two thou.sand dollars. "For a beacon on the Sand Spit, in the harbor of Sag Harbor, seven hundred dollars. "For four spar-buoys at Fire Island inlet, three hundred dollar~. "Now .Ter.~oy.-For a fog-bell at the Newark light-house, two hunc.lred 'and fifry dollars. . "For the completion of the beacon in Passaic river, four spar-buoys 1n the same, a spar,,;buoy at Mill Rock, and a beacon n.t the Corner ·Sta.kc, near Elizabethtown Point, eight hundred dollars." , 11 he spur-buoys for Fire island having been recommended by me on the report of Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull, tho recommendation 1 \Vns sunply repeated. An examination of Flynn's knoll by the I .. ight-housc Board, raised a doubt as to the expediency of plo.cmg a li~ht-house on that shoal. I .suggested the alternative of range-lights, similar to the one npproved for the main ship-channel, from its elbow near the Southwest Spit shoal through the Na.rrows--(see report to the Secretary of the Tren.sury in Appendix No. 23 ;) one set of ranges to lead from the entrance from Gcdncy's channel, through the main ship-channel, to tho range for .cha.nging course to northward; unother runge to lead through the Sw~sh channel, the importance of which cannot be exnggcrntod. The ·project includes the substitution of a beacon-light for the Elm 1'rce benco~, 'fhe two small beacon-lights required by thi«l plan for the mnin ·iJup-.channel will be screened by the woods, through which the rimge mes will be cut at Point Comfort, (sec sketch B, No. 6,) on the New ,Jersey shore; or artificially, so a.a to be seen on the range, an<l al a. moderute distance. on each side .only. The same precaution will be t~ken in regnr.d to the Swash runge, so as to avoid confusion from muLtiplying the nwnber of lights. A distinction of colors may also be in-

troduced with ·advantage. The first range requires the lights to be seen at from eight to ten miles, and the second at about six and a half and eight and a half miles. The beacon-lights at J'ort Hamilton must be seen eight miles. .. Items numbered nine (9) to nineteen (19) inclusive, were referred ID JJieutenants Commanding Thornton A. Jenkins and Maxwell Woodhull, United States navy, assistants in the coast survey, for examination and report. On the information received from them I reported, (June 13,) recommending the buoy on Penfield reef, No. 9; a light-house on Gardiner's island (No. 11,) to show a red light; the beacon in Sag Harbor, (No. 12;) the two beacons near Fort Hamilton, New York harbor, (No. 13 ;) a fug-bell for Newark light; the beacons in Passaic river (No. 14 ;) and the beacon near Elizabethtown Point. T,he four buoys (No. 14) in the Passaic river and the .o~e on Mill Rock were found to have been already placed. An additional buoy off Black Rock harbor (Connecticut) was recommended, for which no appropriation had been made. My report to the Treasury Department, together with the reports of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Woodhull, are in the Appendix No. 24-, and show the reasons for these. recommendations. The maps referred to are published maps of the coast survey, which embrace the localities named, upon which the positions designed for the beacons and buoys were marked. No new surveys were required in these cases, but merely an examination of the localities with the charts in hand, by persons ~c~uainted wi~h th~ de~ails o~ sucl~ work. . . . . The different operations m tlns section w1ll be briefly noticed m thel.l' order: 1. The triangulation of the Hudson river has been continued by assistant Edmund Blurit, aided by Lieutenant Joseph S. Totten, United States army, assistant in the coast survey, and during a. brief period by assistant W. E. GreenweJI. The connexion with the former triangles was made through stations Diddery and Buttermilk Hill; the scheme has.been extended to Bear Mountain, (see sketch B.) This · p:irty, having supplied points for the hydrography of the entrance to the Chesapeake, was temporarily withdrawn from Section III, during the part of the season unfavorable for primary work there, and has made the following d:termin~tions: for pnmary triangulation 49 angles, and for secondary triangulations 213 angles, have been measured by 2,367 observations. , The work in the Chesapeake was resumed in November~ 2. The following observations were made for the coast survey at the· observatory of the Central High School, Philadelphia, by Professor E. O. Kendall, for lon~itude: . "Forty-five transits of .the moon ~ave been observed, of which twenty-nine were of the first limb, and sixteen of the second. In most cases four moon-cnlminating stars were observed, and as many of the fundamental stars as were necessary for the determination of the corrections of the instrument, and that of the clock. The number of occultations observed during this period is seven. This is a smaller number than usual; and it may not be im.proper to say, by way of explanation, that during the first half of th1s year (1861) the prevn.lence of cloudy

45
~venings was unprecedented, as far as my experience 'goes. The begi,nning and end of .the solar eclipse of July 27 were successfully observed here by Mr. Riggs and Mr. Muson, the former using the nine.. feet equatorial, and the latter the two-and-n-lmlf-feet Dyalitic telescope. "l have, also, with the assistance of Mr. Andrew Mnson, completed the reduction and copying of all the observations made at this place llJ? to the close of the yenr 1860, and have forwarded them to the office of the Coast Survey. The work of reducing the observations of 1861 is in such o. state of forwardness that I shall be able to get them ready for your use soon after the close of the year. '1.'he results of those obtained from January to June inclusive, will, as requested, be sent to Washington in a few days, for comparison with Mr. Davidson's at So.n Diego." 'rl1e closin~ remark refers to the immediate use of these observations in determining the longitude of the coast survey station at San Diego. 3. Assistant J.B. GHick executed in July the minute topographical surveys reqnired to determine the location of range-lights for the main ship·chnnnel and for the Swash channel into New York hurbor. 'l'hese \Vere made at a very trifling expense in consequence of the kindness of the collector, Hugh Maxwell, csq., in permitting the use of the revenue cutter 'l'uney, and of the promptness of Cu.ptuin Rudolph in rendering us assistance. For Mr. Gluck's report, see Appendix No. 23. 4. A re-survey has just been made of Sandy Hook for determining the changes in that point; and permanent marks, of n suitable kind, \Vere placed, as recommended in a report of a previous year, by assistant H. L. Whiting, by which the changes mny very readily be aseertainecl from time to time. The re-survey was ma.de under the immediate direction of Mr. Whiting, by Mr. IL M. Bache. The results are shown in connexion with those of former years, on sketch B, No. 4. o.· The verification of the hydrogrn.phy re<Juired for the third, or eastern, sheet of the chart of the south side of Long Islnnd was executed nt the close of May lust by Lieutenant Commanding Maxwell Woodhull, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, in tho schooner Madison. 'f he work extends from Ncapeague to Montuuk Point, (sec sketch B,) and was carried out about nine miles from the shore. The area: was 117 squure miles, in sounding which, 332 miles Were run, 4,800 casts of the lend mnde, and 422 angles for J)osition measured. The party wn.s then transferred to the Vineyar sound for tidal and current observations, which have been nlreudy reported in connexion with the other work of Section I. Professor Pendleton, United States navy, assistant in the coust surve;v, assisted in the measurement of angles from the shore stations, required in this work. . ~: De~ciencies in the hydrc~gmphy of the entrn~ce to Connecticut :iver huvmg been reported, L10utenant Commandmg Woodhull was mstructed to proceed there early in the season, and utler filling up the Work required, and examining the bar at the entrance, recommended ~ re-su~voy, which was accordingly directed. On completing his work in Section I, (hydrograyhy o.f Newburyport hn.rbor, Mnssachuspt~s,) he proceeded to Connecticut nver, of the entrance and bur of wluch he h9:8. ma~e a .carefu.1 survey. As soon as the soundings are plot~ed, aa1hng d1recuons will be published; and the sheet reduced for engravmg.

York, it appeare~ desirable th~t the reefS should be mmut~ly examined, before anCL after these operations, and tnat the changes 111 the hydro~raphy of the passage. should be carefully _noted'. Lieutenant Wash· mgton A. Bartlett, Umted States navy, assistant m the coast survey, \vas detailed for this purpose, and made minute surveys of Way's reef~ Pot Rock, the Gridiron, and Hallet's Point; the first two being made in October after the first blastings, and the second before any such operations had been attempted. For his reports, see Appendix No. 66. 'f o the perseverance and urgency of Eben Meriam, esq.,·of Brooklyn, the liberality of Remy Grinnell, esq., and others, of New York, and the skill of Mr. Maillefort in submariue blasting, the city of New York will owe an undertaking which has already so for succeeded· o.s to, rencler it o.lmost certalrt· that the dangers of this formidable passage may be essentially diminished, if not entirely removed, The Const Survey chart of Hell Gate, and its approaches, will be modified in accordance with the changes which may be developed,· and the first edition will serve as a historical record.of no small value, nncl interest. S. Lieutenant Commanding S. Swartwout, Uniied States navy, assistant in the coast survey, was detached with the brig 'Vashington, for a short time, to make the hydrogrnphic survey of the vicinity of; Cox's ledge, which is some twenty-one miles from Block island. Thirty-four miles of soundings were run over, anc.l sixty-eight soundings proqured, in· from 16 to 24 fathoms water. 9. Valuable reports have been received from the Hon. H. C. l\furphy, of Brooklyn, on the names upon the Coast Survey map No. l, of I,ong; bland sound, including· both shores, giving the orthography and derivation of some 270 names. 'rhis is in. continuation of his reports on 1 sheets Nos. 2 and 3 of the same ma.p. 10. In my report of 1849, I noticed the operation$ for determining,r by tele,graph, the difference of longitude of Seaton station (W r.tshingtcm) and Western Ileserve College, with a view to render avmlnhle for the. longitude of one of the Coast i;urvey stations the elaborate series of moon-culminations observed by Professor Loomis, (now of New York University,) between the years 1838 and 1844. It ~as found it~practwahle to . transm~t the signals t~ anrl fr?m W ashmgton, but from and to Ph1ladelphm the telegraphic connex10n with Hudson was complete on several mghts during the time set apartr for the work. ' The telegraph and other observations have since heen reduced under the direction of assistant S. C. Walker, who deduces from them the' Ion o-itudc of the observatory of Western Reserve College, H u<lson, Ohio, west of the High School o~servatory,, Philadelphia., 2om. 5.708·.· 11. The results of the observat10ns for difference of longitude be·. tween the Seaton station, Washington, and the High School' observa.'!' tmy, Philadelphia, made in the summer of 1849, have been comp,uted by assistants. c. Wulker, or under his immediate direction. rhey;

A record of the tides,· day and night,· wits kept here. · 7. The remova1 of. certam of the reefs in the da.ngerous passage of· Hell Gate bavin"" ·been resolved upon by enterprisin&' citizens of New

consisted of the ex~hange of chrop.ometer signals· and of star signols, and, with the weights assi$11ed to the. difforent classes of obseJ:va.tions. by Mi·. Walker, giv,e the d1ife1·ence of longitude 7m. 20.9.0s.
" ' Sn.c'l'10N-' JII.-FROM CAPE HENLOPEN To CAPE 11~NRY, INCLUDIN~; 'l'~flll · C.O.A'3'1' OF I>ELA.WAJ.Ul1 MAUYLANI>1 AND PAR\1.' .OF VIRGINIA.-

(~k,etch C.).

.
'

Seveq land parties have been employed in this section during the season, either in whole or in part; one, 11 double hydrographic party· throughout, and another for a portion of the season. The astro11omicu.L ?bs,crvl:!-tions fr>r conneJtloq, of the Capitol with the coast hav~. been fin· ished; and a scheme devised, after recomm.issance, for connexion of. the Che$apeake with the seacoast u·iangulation. The prinmrr triangulation of the Chesapeake has been extended from the limits of last yeari tow:ards. the Capes, at which some preliminary determinations have been made, embracin~ in area more .than half of all that remained to. he completed at the tune of my last year's report. . ~he system of connexion, by telegraph, of W ashiugt.on with distant· points of t11e coast for difforence of longitude, bas been prosecuted.1 ~he secondary triangulation has extended along the peninsula of Virginia, from Cedar .i::ilun<l to Rogue's island on the Atlantic con.st. The !opogmphy of the Patapsco river has been rcvis.ed ·. Other topograph-. ical surveys ,have covered .pw:t of the seacoast of the penme.ula of Maryland and. Virginia; and l!oth shor~s, with the islands of.the Chesapeake bay, in that portion includiog Pocomoke. sound on the east, and lying between the Potomac. and Itappahannock rivers on the west. 'l'he hydrographic op.erations have ad vu.need along. the outc1· shore ·of V~rgiuia, from n oi.nt in Maryl11nd near.the line, to \Yithin about forty. nulcs of Cape Charles, including important shoals on the coast, und e;tending soownrd a distance of about eleven miles. They have like· 'Wise been continued in Chesapeake bay; an<l n. speciitl surv~y, of which ~he results are made rublic in a sketch .herewith, 11as fomishecl vulunble l"~o.rmation in regur1. to tpe flpproaches (middle ground) oft.hat bn~'" · 4.stronomical observations, ~r:.-Causten's station, near Georgetown, ]), C., was occ.ri~ie<l during May o.n<l Jqne by my pa1ty 1 for the detenpination oflo.utude and a~imuth. ~lagnetic ohscryn.tions were also 1 !1ade, and an angle in one of the seconuu.ry triangles measured, toi fuq1i~h a base fo1: contin~ing the survey down the Potomac. '!'he observ11tions were made, umler my immediate direction, by sub..assistant. qeprge W. Dean; an<l. the following table shows. their nuu1ber and k1.nd,·ancf the instruments with which they were made: 94sel'vations for-. . ~in,i.e.~'rransit ~o. 4, (Troughton & Simms,) 102 observations on· 12._pf.1!:s.pf stars. .. La.t~tudfi,".""'"'Zciiith·se.ctor, C. S. No. l~ (Troughton & Simms,p366 ob-. 11C.J:":atlon.s on SO stars. . . . 1 Azimuth:-so-inch theodolite, C. S. No. 1, (Troughton & Simms,), l~O ,observntions on Polusis. .. , · · ~:fagnetic...:...\~aiiadon, declino~eter C~ S~ No.J,.by Jones, 77 obser.. Vations on five dHrel'ent days; intensity, decfinometcr C. S. No. 1, by
p.

'

Jones, 3 sets on three different days; dip, l.O-inch dip-circle by Gum.. . 'bey, 3 sets on.,two different days. The stars used in the latitude observations were selected from the Greenwich twelve-year catalogue, for which we are indebted to Professor Airy. " . The micrometers of the zenith sector were compared with the divisions on the limb of the instrument, giving the same resulting mean value as was obtained last year. The azimuths were in part observed at elongation and in part at culmination, by the method referred to in my last report. They were referred to a mark placed nearly in the line to Soper's station, (Mont".' gomery cq,unty, Maryland,) and the angle between the mark and the signal at Soper's was measured by the micrometer. During the inonths of July and August, moon culminations were observed at the Seaton station by Mr. J.C. Langton, under the direction of assistant S. C. Walker, by the galvanic method.· In his annual report, Mr. Walker brings up the results of the investigation of the rate of transmission of the signals through telegraph lines ($alvanic wave time) to the present date. "The results of our experience to October, 1860, were then stated to be" 1st. That the average of all our experiments to that time indicated a velocity of propagation of the galvanic wave of 15,400 miles per second in the iron wires of a telegraph line. "2d. 'rhat the velocity of propagation through the ground appeared to be less than two-thirds of the velocity in the iron wires." During .the year, three new results have been added to the foregoing, two of them obtained incidentally while determining differences of longitude. The first, between the Seaton station, Washington, an<l. Portsmouth, Virginia, when the distance through the wires was 2G8 miles, and through the ground 180 miles; the second, between Charleston, South Carolinn, and Savannah,, Georgia, passing through Augusta, the length of tho circuit of telegraph wires being in this 447 miles. In the third, from Cincinnati and back, the circuit consisted of 840 miles of' iron wire, there being no ground connexion. From a comparison of all the results, Mr. Walker draws the conclusion that the time of traversing 15,461 miles is one second. As these experiments have attracted much attention, at home and abroad, among scientific men, and afford the data for examination of questions in regard to the propagation of the galvanic influence which are of high interest, I have placcd,Mr. Walker's report, entire, in the Appendix No. 25. The telegraphic operations for determining difference of longitude between Seaton station and Forbes' point, North Carolina, and the· general arragement for those between Charleston and Savannah, were under the charge of.assistant Sears C. Walker. An account of these has been given, in the proper place, in Sections IV and V. In addition, he has been industriously occupied in l'e<lucing and superintending the. reduction of his telegruph results, and of the longitude observations of others.
· · 'fhiR ia tel'Jlled J1y Mr. Airy, tho Astronomer Royal of Great Britain, the "American method." .

S. Doc. 3.

49

During the year., the telegrnph work of 1846 and 1847 has been discussed by him, using the best values for personal equations, and ho now reports the discussion as final. 'f he work of 1848, between \V ushington, New York, and Cambridge, has also been finally discussed, and the geodetic Corrections UJ?plied. That between Philadelphia and Cincinnati, in 1849, Philadelphia and Hudson, and Seatoo station and Charleston, in 1860, is also re:ported as complete; and the results of observations of moon culminauons and occultations at Hudson, by Professor Loomis, have been used in determining the longitude of Cambridge. · The following extracts from Mr. \Valker's annual report will show the progress of the computations of moon culminations, &c., under his charge: "In the course of the last year additional corresponding moon culminations have been found for Mr. Hilgard's work at Sand key, Florida, Section VI, u.ncrreduced and reported. "The observations of assistant Davidson, at Point Conception, Upper California, Section X, of moon culminations, have been reduced and compared with those made at Philadelphia and Cambridge. The longitude of Point Conception has been obtained und reported." "No progress has been made in the further reduction of the collection of occultations o.nd eclipses of the coast survey. I recommend that these be compared and rcduced, with the recent improvements in the lunar tht:ory, in particular including that of l\Ir. Myers Fisher Longstreth, of Philadelphia. " 'l'he work of reducing the moon culminations of the coast survey has been continuecl by Professor Pendleton, with the assistance of Professor Yulce and Mr. Keber. Nearly all the wol'k at Hudson, Ohio, has been revised; and in instances where Lieutenant Gilliss, United States navy, and Professor Loomis differ, a triplicate computation is made. A part of the work of Lieutenant Gilliss, United States navy,, has been submitted to a duplicate computation. "Profossor Pcnc.lleton's work has been, thus far, limited to the yeal'S: 1841 and 1846." . "Correspondin~ observations of moon culminations only have been hitherto reduced, 111 consequence of the state of the lunar theory. The rpecent improvements in thut theory by Hansen, Airy, Longstreth, and . circe, make it desirable to compare all our observed moon eulminatlons with theory alone. Where correspondin$ observations are avail· able, it is well to compare also with observation. It will serve as a r~st Of the recent improvements, and may, perhaps, serve to. throw some· ight 011 the discrepancy which now exists between the longi:tude by moon culminations and by chronometers. "We are relieved from the necessity of reducing the numerous obPrvations of the recent solar eclipse, by the amateur computations of rofesso~ Peirce." l Refernng to the results of the various chronometer expeditiomJ,' reported since 1844 by Mr. Bond, director of Harvard observatory, 4

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

(

including the special expeditions of the Coast Survey to Liverpool, Pro. fessor Walker remarks: ' ,"I am convinced that there is no possible interpretntion of then;i which will place the results below his reported value, 411. 44m. 30.h., for the longitude o'f Harvard observatory from Greenwich observatory. "The longitude of Harvard observatory, by moon culminations at Harvard observatory, Dorchester, Hudson, Wilkes' observatory, and the Washington observatory, comes out very uniformly about 4/t. 44m. 28.4,~., leaving a discrepancy below the results by chronometers of 2. 7 s. This discrepancy will, I hope, be explained in time by persevering efforts." l\fr. Walker gives an abstract of his report on longitude, which will be found in Appendix No. 26. A meteorological register was kept at Causten's station, by l\fr. D. Vr West, recording, for thirty-two days, observations for temperature of the air, moisture, atmospheric pressure, and the force, amount, and direction of winds and clouds. · Reconna·issance, primary triangulation, o/c.-1\fnjor Henry Prince, United States army, assistant in t.hc coast survey, made, (luring the earlier part of the season embraced in this report, an extendec.l reconnaissance of the eastern shore of Maryland and Virginia-the purpose of which was to arrive at a mode of connecting the secondary triangula~ion of th? A~lantic shore with t~1r:t of ~he ~lwsap~ake. The results of !us exammatwn show great d1fficult1es 111 makmg the connexion high up the peninsula, for want of suitable natural elevations for signals, and on account of the heavy cutting involved in tlic use of any station on the main land. It therefore appears advisable, as it is rcportcµ practicable, to make the connexion by observing from islaud stations on either sidP,-upon Drummon<ltown or some point where the peninsula is narrow--or to postpone tlie connexion until Cape Charles is reached by tbe Chesapeake and by the outside triangulations . . From this reconnaissance, 1\fajor Prince passed to that of Pamplico sound and others of importance. Assistant Edmund Blunt, with a party for primary triangulation, was engngcd in the lower part of Chc~apcake hay for tl:e greater part of three months, J unc to August; afterwards proceedmg north for the triangulation of the Hudson river, and returning to this section in November. Mr. Dlunt's operations in this section were the observations for triangulation and the reconnaissances approp~iate to form a judicious scheme, and to establish points for hyclrogrupl11cal un<l topographical puri:oses: The t~·iangulation of the season extends from Wolf '!'rap statron (mtermed1ate between York and Happa!rnnnoek rivers) south toward~ th? entrance of Clwsapeal.w bay, nt which some prclimiru:u:y <letcrmmat10ns were made. A reference to the general sketch C, will show that it has· adopted as r~rimury points the princip~tl capes nnd light-houses. Care was tukep, m all cases to mnrk tho pu1uts used in a , , permanent manne~ for future reference. . The statistics of Mr. D~unt show 18 pmnary angles measured, and 67 others-in aJl, 13G series of angles were mci~sured .by 1,478 obser( va~ions. The season's. work coyered an area of 400 square miles. / i~ccondary tria11gulatwn.-Ass1stunt Jol.m Parley has continued thjs portion of the work along the outer coast of Virginia. His pnrty, en-

J.r. I Z i.:t~

~~ l.,..J I~.

·n.

S. Doc.
.

a.,.

.

.

ar

gaged during October and November, 1850, and June, July, and August, 1851, suspended operations at the end of August OQ....l;l,££~mnt.52L.... -.~fllt!iJ but returned to the field in October. In the intervals of with.:. druwal they have been occupied in the computation of previous work. '!'he triangulation has been continued (see sketch C) from Joynes' station, near Drummond town, Accomac county, to Sand shoals, opposite Eiistville, in Northampton county, Virginia, and within about 18 iniles of Cape Cl.rn.rlcs. .It cov«?:rs an area of 150'squnr~ miles, .'.'by the occupation of 10 stations, with 42 angles, and 1,100 mtersect10ns, on 51 lines of sight." · Mr. Farley adds that, at the request of the Fifth Auditor, Mr. Pleasanton, "a point has been incidentally established upon the public reservation for a light on Hog island, in Northampton county-subject to be received n.s the centre of the proposed light·house; which po'int:, if nc-. cep11.e<l, will have determined the la.titmlo and longitude of the same." Assistant Farley was nidcd by l\fr. George H. Da.~well. · 'l'opogrnphy, (sketch C.)-Four plane-table parties (one of which Was double) have ·been in the field during the available portions of the yem-. 'l'he1r operations have been us follows: 1. Afrer the date of my report of last year, and in April, May, und .June of the present year, assistant J.B. Gliick contmned the revision of the topography of the shores of the Patapsco. His sht'cts comprise tin area of 26 square miles, and an extent of shore-line of 98 miles. The Coast Survey schooner Nautilus was assigned as a means of transportation for his party. ].\fr. Gllick is now (October 15) un<le'r: instructions to return to this section for the completion of this work, which is cssentitd to the publicatiori of the chart of Baltimore harbor un<l the Patupsco river, already delayed by circumstances which could neither be foreseen nor controlled. 2. A double topographical party was in the field under sub-nssistan,t John Seib until the latter part of December, 1860; was then occupied in oflice work, and resumed its field duties in .May, 1851. Sub-assistant S. A. Wuinwright returned to this party iu August, having been meantime in section V. l\fr. G. W. Parrish and 1\lr. John H. \Vise have been aidin~ l\fr. Seib. 'l'he party have had in use the Const Smvcy schooner Wa vc. The topography executed this senson in the Chesapeake bay, including tho interior of tlie coast between the Potomac and Ibppahannock rivers, extl'nds over the latter, nnd along the shore to within a fow miles of York river, and on the opposite coast cover~ the shore and island~ from the imn!cclin~c vicinity of the Maryland lrne southward to a pomt about 15 miles from Cape Chn.rles. l\~r. Seib's account of the progress nnd gencrul character of the work is given more in detail, ~)y reforcncc to the numbers of tho plane-table sheets, as follows, (see generul sketch C): Sheets Nos. 40 and 41, (western ·shore between the Potomac and Rn.ppahannock rivers,) and Nos. 42 and 43, (eastern shore n.nd islands of l>ocomokc sound, and the 11eighbori11g portion of the Chesapeake,) 'Were completed during~hc foll nnd winter of 1850. Sheets Nos. 40 and ·17 embrace the survey of the main shore of Chesapen.ke ba.y, from Windmill Point. to Wolf 'I'rnp, the shore ot
1

the mouth of the Rappahannock, on the north for three miles, and

Oli

S. Doc. 3.
the south for two miles, with the topography of Hill's bay, Milford Haven, Gwinn's island, and Stingray Point. '!'he country is slightly elevated, intersected by creeks, coves, and ponds, and thickly settledr No. 48, embracing the main eastern shore of the Chesapeake bay,. from Sandy Point to !lose Mary, furnishes its topography, and that of the creeks included. The country is in part even and swompy-in part sandy and slightly uneven. The bunks along tlie main shore vary from five to twenty feet in height. No. 46.-This sheet is compleie<l, comprising the shores and topo-graphy from Sykes' island to Deep creek. A portion of this work was executed by Mr. Wainwright. Mr. Seib furnishes the following statistics for the year : Shore-line of bay, sound, creeks, and coves ·..... .433 miles. Area of country. · · . · .. · · · · · · · . · . . · · . . . . . . . . · · · 91 square miles. The office-work of tht( party (in which Mr. Seib and Mr. Wainwright were occupied during the winter and spring of 1851) consisted in inking and lettering the plane-table sheets of the previous season. 3. The statistics above given do not include the separate operatioruJ of sub-assistant S. A. Wainwright, who entered in August upon the topography of the eastern (Chesapeake) shore of Vil'ginia, having been previously engaged in another section. His work for the season, up to October, is embraced in the J>lanc-table sheet No. 4a. It extends from Syk.es' i~lan~ to .Guilford. signal, along 442- miles of. shore-Iii;ie. M:. W amwnght is gorng on with Pocomoke sound, and will pass, 1f practicable, to the western shore of Virginia, before the close of the season. 4, Assistant G.D. Wisc, after closing his work on the coast of South Carolina,, passed, May 8, to the survey of the Atlantic. coast of Maryland and Virginia. '!'he party was broken up about the :first of July, by the sickness of Mr. Wise and some of his men. The season's work is included between Lonesome Hill station, on the coast of Maryland, near the Virginia line, and Chincoteague inlet, Virginia, extending over fourtee.n miles of coast, alon& fifty miles of shore-line. The area embraced is twenty-five square u:ules. Assistant Wise returned to the field, and took charge, October 15, of the party on the Atlantic coast of Virginia, whose operations I am next about to notice. 5. Mr. W. M. Johnson having been engaged from December, 1850, to June, 1851, in Section VIII, as aid to assistant Greenwell, ancl subsequently in office-work pertaining to that section, was transforred, August 12, to a rorty in Section III, (then under sub-assistant J. :M. W. ampler,) of wb1ch, in a few days after, he succeeded to the ~barge. His work~ ,UP to October,. embraces Wallop's and As~awaman islands, and a port10n of Matomkm, extending south to the pomt marked South Gargathy, on the seacoast of Virginia, running inland a mile and a half, or two mile~, (for enough to give an. accurate ide.a of the topog· raphy of the entJre back country) and bemg the cont111uation southward of the work .i?st reported ~s executed by assistant Wise. It embraces an area of 21. square miles, and eKtcnds along 66 miles of shore-line, and 6 of roads. On the general character of this portion of the coast, Mr. Johnsop. remarks: " The main land is about twenty feet above the level of tbe
r

S.·

Doc.

3.

0-ceal'l, sloping gradually from the. water's edge. Between t'Re islands
and the main land lies a body of marsh, intersected by numerous ereelM, bays, &c., and which is overflowed at every high water." Hydrogra1>liy.-Licutenant Commanding J olm J. Almy, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, has prosecuted, during the greater part of the season, the outside hydrography of the seacoast of Virginia.· The steamer Legare and the schooner Graham, belonging to the coast survey, have been placed under his command for this service. The state of the season rendering it dangerous to continue outside work with the steamer, the vessel' and party were transforred early in September to the hydrograpby of Chesapeake bay. The Graham being of such light d1·aut,>l1t us easily to secure shelter in the inlets, was left outside to do some filling up and finishing off with her boats-thence to ?,,ass to the bay, and cany on the inside soundings there. !'he character and progress of the work may be gathered from the sketch C, No. 3, (on which it embraces the coast between the points marked Lonesome Hill an<l South Gargathy,) and from the following descrif>tion by Lieutenant Commanding Almy: "I rn.ve completed the outside work down to South Gargathy, and in a direction southeast by east from this point, a disttmce of eleven miles seaward, where the tops of the trees in a clear day can just be seen from the deck of the steamer-the land being very low about here. This makes for my outside work this season eighteen nautical miles of in-shore soundings by the coast to the southward; and twenty miles from the solltheast point of outside soundings last yeur to their termination point of this year. "The season's work has covered Chincoteague shoals, and been brought into smooth, regular soundings, which continue down to the Chesnpeuke bay. These Chincoteague shoals app.car to be the terror of all navigators who have to pass anywhere near them; and frequent inquiries have been made of us respecting their survey. 'l'he soundings 'Which embrace all of these shoals ure now completed." The hydrogrn.phic work in Chea.sapeake bay, resumed by Lieutenant Commanding Almy, September 20, was continued uutil lute in .November. Its progress i.s thus described, (sec also sketch C): "'!'lie soundings in Chesapeake hay have been entirely completed as fa.r down as a straight line drawn-which is very nearly due east and 'West-from Windmill point, (point of triangulation,) on the west side of the bay. Then south of the east and west line, on the west side of the buy. The soundinO'S have been completed a.s fo.r down as Wolf rrrap 1 (point of trianguL1tion,) and on a liue due eust from this, as far as the meridian of 7G 0 041, which is about two-thirds of the way across the bay from the west side." 'rhe following statistics of the work a.re reported by Lieutenant Commanding Almy:

~rea sounded, out, square miles . . . . . · . . . · . . . · · · 286 u_mb.cr of soundings mu.de by steamer und boa.ts L m from 1to17 fathoms ......···...·......... 31,052

Seaco111I toork.

Ba11worTc,

247
28,GlO

ength of lines i·un in sounding, nautical miles .·.. 1 1192

64:9

S. ;Doc. 3.
Staeoaa(work. Bay work.

Number of angles taken for hydrographic positions by theodolites .· ~ .......·.·.·.... ,. . . . . . . . . 4,589 N um her of ditto by sextants. ~ · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,426 Number of current stations occupied.. . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Number of current observations taken .... ·'·...... 129 Numbe!r of tidal observations made .............. 2,662

2,187 1,694 2 256 1,187

· Jn the outside soundings, 27 different specimens, and in tlie inside 13, have been obtained and placed in bottles, in duplicate, provided at the Coast Survey office. A sketch of the outside hydrography, executed by Lieutenant Commanding .!dmy, will be published immediately. From the indications uflbrdcd by the track of three bottles, which were thrown overboard by Lieutenant Commanding Almy at different times, with dates marked, and which have since hccu picked up, it would appear that there is a general southwesterly current setting along the eastern (Atlantic) coast of Vll'giuia, but quite moderate · · in strength. On his return from ,Section VIII, Lieutenant Commanding B. F. Sands, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, wns directed to commence the survey of the approaches to the Chesapeake ; and tho steamer Walker, which he had used in I~ouisiuna, requiring repairs, the Coast Survey schooners Nautilus an<l Meredith were assigned for his work. 'fhe arrangements for the transfor of the crews of the vessels were made by the rnth of August, and the work continued until tho close of September. The following extract from the report of Lieutenant Commanding Sands will sliow what has been uccomplisbcd: "As the season was so far advanced that it was not probable we would have much good weather to complete nny particular part of the section, I determined to run as many Imes of soundings as possible over the 'Middle Ground' between the capes, confining myself to the shoal water, as that part was least known, even to tho pilots. "The weather was not favorable to very extensive work-the easterly winds, prevailing, made it frequently too rough for sounding; but we succeeded in running two Jiundrcd and sixty-eight miles of soundings, and in making ten tlwusand two hundred and tbirty-ciglit casts of the lead in an area of sixty-five square miles, which will show the genen1l configuration of a part of that great thoroughfare hitherto so little know.i:· The tides were observed at two stations, and two positions occupied for preliminary current stations; the weather prcventiug farther observations upon the currents, as was rntcnded. "A short season of smooth weather would enable us to finish this interesting portion of the approaches to this extensive bay, n, know ledge of which would be of the greatest importance to the commerce of the Chesapenke and James river. 'l'he unfavorable weather would not admit of so extended a survey as to enable mo to make reliable sailin"' directions· but the publication of a preliminary sketch of the work don~ would prdve interesting to the comnicrcial community." The recommendation with which the extract closes has been adopted, and the sketch will he reduced ancl engraved to accompnny this report, (sketch C, No. 2.) It is due to Lieutenant Commanding Sands and his

S. Doc. 3.
?fficers say, that though they had just returned from arduous service In the Gulf of Mexico, there was no abatement of zeal and industry in t~e prosecution of the new duty assigned to them, as, indeed, the statistics of die.work just given ll}OSt amply prove. · Li~ltt-llouscs, 4'c.-In accordance with the instructions of the Treus~ry Department, pursuant to an act of Congress, L icutenant CommandIng J, J. Almy, United Stat.es navy, assistant in the coast survey, \\'rt.S directed to make an examination of the necessity for n light-house at Fishing battery, otherwise called Donaho's battery, in Chesapeake b~y, near Havre de Grace, J\for_yland. His report, nn<l my rccommcndat10n or the erection of a light-house, will be found in Appendix No. 27.
SECTION IV.-FROM CAPE HENRY ·ro CAPE PEAn, INCLUDING ·rnE 01~ ·rnE STA'.rE 01r NOit'.L'll CAUOLINA.-(Skctch D.)

to

coA:ST

Two parties for trim~gulation and one for hydrogrnphy have been employed, dut-ing thu whole of the past season, in this section; and llurinl? a. part of it, in addition, a rcconnaissauec party and two hydroi;rtapluc parties. The secondary triangulation of the season covers the gi e111.cr pa.rt of Currituck sound; and the tcrtia.ry extends from Hatteras light to n. point south of Ocracokc inlet. A gcucrul41·econna.issunce of Pn.mplico sound has prepared the way for the ma.in trinugu1auv11. With tliis was united an examination of Core sound. The hydro~rn. phy of Albemarle and Croatan sounds, remaining from the previous ;year's work, and that of Hoanoke sound, have been cotnpleted; us nlso, ' m part, that of Currituck sound. Oregon inlet, which opened in 1846, was re-examined, to ascertain its progress. Tho reports of the· officers cngngcd in I hesc surveys contain matter ·locally and generally interesting, which will be mcutione<l or quoted in ~uc c.ouncxion. Reports. upon Cape ~'car riv~r and Beaufort hu.rb~r, Ill rcforence to locatwn of lights n'rid buoys, will also be presented m their place. . 'l'o obtuin the difference of longitude of u. point in this section from Washington, the telegraphic connexion with Portsmouth, Vir~iniu, was used, and .chronometers t.ram;ported from thence to Forbes' I oint, ncnr l~lizabeth City, in North Carolina. Portsmouth is an important locality in the geodetic operations of the s4rvcy, n.s the southern extremity of the arc of. the meridian which passes notthwn.nl over the Chesapeake to the Delaware, u.nd the measurement of" which has now nearly been completed in the regular progress of the survey. 'l'he drawin$ of one sheet of the general clmrt of Albctharlc sound has made cons1dcrable progress, nncl thn.t of Benufort harbor is complete, and ready for cngrnving. Sketches of Hatteras shoals, Htttteras inlet, and Beaufort harbor, accompany this report, u.nd provision has been made for engraving those of tho cntrnnco to Cnpe Fear, and the l!'ryingpan shoals off Cape Fear, as soon us sent in to the o!fi.cc. It uppearn from tho cxatninutiou of Pn..mplico sound thrtt it contains a nun~bcr of excellent harbors, often needed for refuge, yet scarcely used from wu.nt of acquaintance with their intricacies. 'l'hc ch.unnel of Core sound, sounded in uccordance with a spccinl l'equest of the legislu.turc of North Carolina, was found to have undergone no substantial change.

66

S. ,-.Doc. 3. ,,

Oregon inlet, which has been watched with interest as holding out · hopes of a new entrance imp01tant to the navigation of Albemarle and Pamplico sounds, cloes not, m its present state, afford much encouragemt~nt to such an idea. ·' The harbor of Beaufort appears to be less liable to deterioration than other points on this part of the coast, and may he pronounced equal, in its security and natural facilities, to any port of our eastern coast south of the Chesapeake. It allows 17 feet to be carried in at low water. A survey has been made of the Fryingpan shoals, (of which there appears to have been heretofore but little correct knowledge,) and of the approaches to the bars of Cape Fear river. The description of the shoals and channels, and the recommendations on the subject of lights and buoys, resulting from this examination, will be found at length under their proper head. A survey of Cape Fear river, interior to this, is also in progress. An examination of Hatteras inlet has been made, in reforence to which it is reported that "No important perceptible changes .had taken place on the bar or in tlie channel, except near the anchorage; the sand and spits had become better defined, and the area of the anchoring ground had increased, with a greater depth of water as for as the bulkhead. No g~ater depth bf water over the outer bar and on the bulkhead was found." The deep-sea soundings and soundings for temperatures. in the Gulf Stream have been prosecuted during the season in this section. Astronomical, telegrap!tic, and c!tronmnetr;r oosermtions.-'I'hese were under the charge of assistant Sears C. Walker. 'l'he scheme as organized was to determine the longitude of Portsmouth, Virginia, by the aid of telegraphic connexion with the Seaton station a.t Washington , city, and from the former to deduce that of Forbes' Point, a station about forty-five miles distant, by the daily transportation of chronometers. In preparation, the chronometers had, for six weeks, been daily compared and rated by transit observations at Washington. Assistant Pourtales and Mr. J. R. Oflley condueted the chronometric expedition, comparing night and morning, by coincidence of beats, the chronometers daily exchanged between Portsmouth and Forbes' Point. Tho former made the transit observations at Forbes' Point, nnd Mr. J. C. Langton those at the Washington station. Assistant Walker superintended the exchange of clock signals' on the Seaton chronograph. The observer at Portsmouth tapped on the break-circuit key every five seconds for one minute, for each chronometer, and the hour and minute thus tapped wer~ noted, the signal being registered by the instruments at Portsmouth, I etersburg, and \Vashington. During seven days the success of the observations and exchange of signals had been amply fa,vorablc, when their progress was temporarily arrested by prolong:d failure of the telegraph line after .a storm. 'l'he Of'eratio? wa~ contrnued as ~ar as .the i~ef~ns ttt our. disposal n;nd the other exigencies of the seasons servwe pctm1tted. It is not considered, however, as completed. Reconnaissance, (sketch D.)-Thc party and vessel employed in the tertiary trian~ulation were, for about six weeks, withdrawn from that duty and assigned to the use of Major II. Prince, United States urmy,

S.

Doc~

3 ..

57

assistant in the coast survey, who made the reconnaissance and accompanying sketch of the sound usually known as "Pamlico." Major Prince. rcters to good maps, to the usage of the neighborhood, and to the oldest authorities, a.s. condemning this orthography, and gives J'amplico as the name which.appears to have the weight of authority in its ti.war. Describing this sound, Mf~orPrince says: "Its breadth from Roanoke island to Long shoal increases from nine to eighteen miles, and in the rest of its length it has a general breadth of from twenty to thirty llliles. 'l'he general depth of the channel is from three to four fathoms.'' lie notes tho foct mentioned by Williamson, a histori:m of the Stute, forty years ago, that lands then planted with corn were covered with \vater at the beginning of the eighteenth century; and observes that it the same causes, whatever they may be, continue to operate, therC'will be huge tracts of the richest possible soil reclaimed for cultivation along this coast. A growth of small live-oak about Ocrncoke, it is re!narkcd, vigilantly preserved, protects the soil from the action of the "7inds. '!'he exposure of this sound is such that naviga~on is often dangerous, and vessels have to put back some distance for refogc. Yet the desired harbors are reported to be 'numerous and convenient, and, to be Useful, require only to be made known. With reforencc to Core sound, the supposed changes of which had caused the legislature of the State to request its examination, Mujor Prince reports that he has carcfolly comfared it with the chart of a survey made by Cnptn.in ·r. J. Lee, Unite( Stutes topogrnJ~hicnl engineers, in 1837. '!'he result is thus stated: "A fow small d1ffenmces of soundings, (we having no tidal observations,) and some small differences of the course (allowance being made for some dredging, of which I have no account, on Piney Point shoal)-in the ID:ain, leave the present channel nnd that of the chart, us it was fourteen years ngo, alike." The sketch by l\Iajor Prince, above referred to, shows. the scheme for the main, trianw1ln.tion obtained by his reconnaissance. Secondary triangulation, (sketch D.)-In the. season of eight months, (November to July,) assistant J. J. S. Hassler extended this bmnch of ~~le work along Currituck sound, from 'l'horoughfare island to the Virginia 1 ~e. 'l'he area embraced was 73 square mileaJ,2 stations were occu~1ed, and 11 determined; and 871 ungles mea-ed by 6,226 observations. The party had the use of the Coast Survey schooner Vanderbilt · .A secondary triangulation, uml the requisite topography connected "71th it, of the cntmnee to Cape Fear river, w~s executed by n.s~istant C.harles P. Bolles, aided by Mr. J. W. Gregone, and the results 11nmed1atcly eom{>uted and furnished to the hydrographic party worki11g ~ ~he same pomt. · A preliminary base, rather exceeding three miles m ength, was measured with 1.t chain upon the beach. (See sketch D, No. 6.) From its extremities nearly every important point in the harbor cc~n b~ seen, and "the triangles are so disposed us to give double dct~!r In~nauon~ of nearly every point of the second order, und of every l1omt of the third order." The work covers an area of 33 sqllare miles; s. St~tions were occupied, and 97 a.ngles, on 17 objects, measured with a 81X-mch repeating theodolite by Gambey, (C. S. No. 36.) 'l'hc plane·

·

·

'68

S. 'Doc. 3.

table survey connected with it furnished 152 miles of shore line, and included the town of Smithville. ' The party of assistant Bolles bad already been engaged in section V, and were transferred to this section in June, remaining until the close of September. Tertiary triangulation, (sketch D.)-A party, under sub-assistant A. S. Wadsworth, aided by Mr. C. T. Jardella, with the Coast Survey schooner Bancroft, was engaged in this triangulation from early in December until late in March. It was then withdrawn for use in reconnaissance, and, after some weeks, again occupied, for a short time, in marking with granite posts the most important stations of the preceding year. , The triangulation extended from Cape Hatteras to Ocracoke inlet, 36 miles along tlie coast, and covered an area of 97 i square miles; 19 statioos were occupieu ancl 77 angles measured, by 450 observations, with a six-inch repeating theodolite of Gambey, (C. S. No. 29.) Topography, (sketch D .)-Assistant Henry L. Whiting spent a month, with a party and vessel, in a topographical survey of the harbor of Beaufort. His work will, in connexion with other surveys, furnish a complete harbor chart. For the gri1tification of those specially interested, I annex descriptive extracts from his report. (See Appendix, No. 28.) The amount of work accomplished may he thus sta~d: Area, iu square miles, 22; extent of shore line, 39 miles; outline of shoals, &c., 15 ; length of creeks, 18; and of roads, 16 miles. Assistant 'Vhiting points out the causes which, in his opinion, tend to preserve the interior of this harbor from change,. and the same general depth of water on tho bar. These will be found in the Appendix, as above referred to; though I am not prepared to endorse the views expressed in rcforence to currents caused by Cape Lookout. Hydrograplty.-(See the several sketches.)-Lieutenant Commanding Ilieliar<l W ainwriglit, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, with the surveying schooner John Y. Mason, was engaged in this section during the latter part of 1850, and from April to June, 1851. 'l'he hy<lrogrnphy of Roanoke and Croatan sounds, with the small portion ~if Albemarle sound rczntiling from last year, has been completed, and thnt of Currituck soti!lr carried north, as for as the points marked Woodis and Willet's on the sketch. 'l'hirty-thrce thousand eight hundred and seventeen soundings were made; l,066 angles taken; and 49() miles of soundings run; nearly all done in boats. Lieutenant Wainwright also visited Oregon inlet. He found the breakers extending entirely across the bar. The bulkhead towards Albemarle sound remains unchanged, having about tlm;?o feet of water at mean tide. Lieutenant Commu~<ling J. N. Maffitt, ~nited States nn.:'y, assir1tant in the coast survey, with the hydrograplnc party under his command, (which has been for the most part employed in Section V,) visited this s~ction in December last to c<~mplcte the hyd:ography of Beaufort, North Carolina; and has furmshcd a chart of the bar and harbor. (Sketch D, ~o. 5.) The- stat~ics of this supplementary work in Beaufort harbor arc as

S. Doc. 3.

59

follows: 53 miles sounded over by "1,289 soundings; 88 angles mea$ur?d; 36 specimens of the bottom obtained; and three sets of observations were made upon currents. The same party returned to this section and undertook, in October of this ye'ar, the hydrogru:phical reconnaissance of tl1e entrance to the Cape Fear and of New nvcr, North Carolina. The lateness of the ~enson prevents their results from being received in time to be embodied in this report. · . · 'ri1lal observations have been made at Smithville (Fort Johnson Wharf) day and night, since July 1, and five current stations have been occupied. Lieutenant T. A. Jenkins, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, commanded another hyclrographic party, in the Coast Survey ste;.imer Corwin. His operations have been directed-1st, to the reexiimination of Hatteras inlet, to place it on the slieet of Hatteras shoals by the aid of the extended triangulation, and to ascertain whether any important changes had taken place; the results have been 1Jrcady in~licated, (see sketch D, No. 3 :) 2d, to the deep-sea soundings and soundlngs for tempcrutures in the Gulf Stream, (sketch D, No. 4 :) 3d, to the SUl'vey of Fryingpn.n shoals und the approaches to the mam and New Inlet bars at the mouth of the Capo Fear river, (sketch D, No. 8.) The statistics of his season's work are as follows: Area ~f hydrogruphic sheet..... . . . . . . . . . · . . . . · . . 250 sq. miles. Number of soundings taken ..·.·.··.·...·.···.. : . 21,990 Number of angles measured ... ·...··.···......... 4,300 Number of lines of soundings run ........'.......... 313 Number of miles of soundings.................... 540 Number of s;Jecimens of bottom preserved .·. ~..... 4;6 Number of Imes of deep-sea soundings run ... : . . · · · 2 Number of miles of deep-sea soundings run.. . . . . . . . 125 Number of positions for deep-sea soundings and temperatures in the Gulf Stream. . . . · . . . . . . . . . . . . . · 4 'l'he report of Lieutenant Commanding Jenkins on the Fryingpnn shoo.ls, and his suggestions in reference to the facilities re<1uired for navigation, are of such interest that I extritct6liem in foll: "The Fryingpan shoals-extending from the soutlieast point of Cape Fear, in almost a SSE. direction from Bald Bend light-house to tbe distance of twenty nautical miles, to ten fu.thoms water, with an average width of four iriiles-nnd the approaches to the main and New Inlet bars nt the mouth of the Cape Fear river, have been carefully sur".eyed, and the sheet is now nearly reudy for reduction to the publica· tion scale. "'rhe pilots and others in the vicinity had little correct knowledge of these dnngerous shoals, and the great distance to which they extend from the shore rendered the work one of more than or<linary difficulty. "'l'he shoalest spot outside of Bird shoal, (near the point of the ca.pc,) l.1us 7, 8, and 9 foet. water on it at low w~1ter, distant 13 na?ticnl miles from Bald Head light-house, and bearmg. NNW. from it by compass. . . . " rhcre is another shoal spot with ten feet water at low tide, 14~

60

S. Doc. 3.
i w:

nautical miles from Bald Head light-house, and bearing NNW.

from it. Two small shoal spots, 16 and 18 miles from light-house, with 16, 17, and 18 feet water on them at low water, bearing SSE.~ E. to SE~ by E. from light-house. The sea breaks on these shoals,, except in
very calm weather. , "Bald Head light-house bears by compass NW. t N. from the eastern point of the Fryingpan shoals, in 6, 7, and 8 fathoms water; coarse gray sand, broken shells, and pebbles, at the distance of twenty mrntical miles. · "Bal<l Head light-house bears per compass NW. by N. from the southeastern point of the Fryingpan shoals, in 8, 9, an<l 10 fathoms; fine gray sand and black specks; distant twenty nautical miles. "Not less than 16 feet water will be found outside of the ten-feet shoal, which bears SSE. i E., distant fifteen nautical miles from the Bald Head light-house. "The bottom is well marked, on either side of the shoals. On the west side, and at the southeastern extrellUty of them, tine gray sand with black specks will be found. On the eastern and northeastern side of them broken shells, coarse sand, pebbles, and occasionally small pieces of coral. , ' "A line made good, SSE. by compass, from the main bar ot. Cape Fear, will clear the western edge of the three-fathoms curve of ,the shoals. "Vcssels bound around the shoals to the eastward from the bar should steer out S. by E. to the di&tance of sixteen to eighteen miles, in eight to ten fathoms water, when an east course will pass on the outer part of ,the shoals in three fathoms to seven fathoms water. "These shoals may he said to be continuous from the point of the cape to teri fathoms water, although at the distance of fourteen nautical miles, Bald Head light-house bearing NNW., there is, a channel running SW. by S., and NE. by N., of upwards of ri riautical mile in width, through which a depth of three and half to five, six, and seven fathoms water may be carried at low tides ; but the shoals on either side, with only seven, eight, and nine feet to. the northward, and ten feet to the southward an<l eastward, and notlung but the compass and lead to guide the naviga.r, fo the absence of u light-vessel or buoys, render it too dan~erous to be available. "Vessels <lrawmg not more than nine and ten feet water can cross the shoals at low water by steering ENE.,, and WSW., at the distance of t~ree to four nautical miles from the point of Cape Fear; and there is a channel between the distances of five and a half to eight and a half nautical miles, through which vessels drawing ten and a hnlf and eleven feet can pass with perfect safety at low tide ; the channel is three nautical miles wide, and with the exception of two or three small spots of te_n and a ha1~ and eleven foet woter, thirteen to fifteen feet will be earned through it; the cou1·ses are from NE. to ENE., and SW,,to WSW. "~t a ~oint of the s?oaJs (Bald Head light-h~use distant eleven nautical miles, and bearmg N. by W. ~ W.) there 1s a channel of two and a half fathoms water, upwards of a nautical mile wi~e. It is in

S.
SW.

Do~.

3.

length only one-third of a mile across the shoal, running NE. and "Two large iron buoys, properly ~arked, placed, and moored with heavy moorings, or with Mitchell's screw, would render this channel one of great value, not only to the local trade of the Cape Fcur region, but to the coasting trade in general, along the southern coast. "Any vessel capable of crossing either bar at the mouth of the Cape Fear river, would find no dilficulty in crossing these shoals under ordinary circumstances of weather and sea, whrn these channels shall have been properly marked out by lnrge buoys, enabling those threatened by bad weather to make a port under almost every condition of 'Weather· . "Too much importance, it is believed, cannot be attached to the subject of marking, as perfectly as may be possible, the channels over these dangerous shoals, for the benefit of the coasting trade, and of furnishing means by which to guide the navigator bound north or south in passing outside of them. "Two large iron buoys are required to mark the best channel over these shoals for coasters. "The present light-house at Bald Head (said to have an elevation of one· hundred and ten feet above the level of the sea) is inudcquute as a seacoast light to the wants of the mariner. It is of compnra.tively little use now, owing to two causes: its great inferiority in brilliancy und intensity, and its bad location, being three and one-third nautical miles from the point of the cape. ' " The outer part of the shoals is twenty nautical miles from the lighthouse, and seventeen from the pitch of the cape. "Assuming that the present light can be seen as for as the curvature of the earth will perrmt, (which is not the case,) from the deck of an ordinary merchant vessel, the range in good weather will be fifteen nautical miles-five nautical miles short of the required range to reach the extremity of the shoals. "To render a light efficient here, it will be necessary to change the location to n position as near the end of the cape as safety and prudepce will permit; give the tower an elevation of not less than one hundred and fifty feet, and place in it a first-.order tlioptrit: apparatus, combining all the most recent improvements. · "An elevation of one hundred and fifty foet will give an ordinary range from the deck of a merchant vessel of nineteen to twenty nautical Iniles, leaving the mariner two or .three miles on the sufo side of the dangers. "At present the fleets of vessels passing daily these dangerous shoals have nothing but the leu.d to guide them aroun<l them, while contending with currents, which ure to a great extent, if not wholly, iniluenced i11 strength and direction by the winds . . "'l'he removal of the present Bald Head light-house wou1~ work no ?1sadvantage, as it is too far inland for a seacoast light, espe~mlly with Jts.presen~ apparatus; and is of very little, if of My, use m a local pomt of view. "Until the present ligbt..tower can be removed to its proper location, and a first-order lens apparatus be procured for it, a large light-vessel

62

S. Doc: 3.

nautical miles from the present light-house. If this vessel is fitted with proper parabolic reflectors and argan<l burners, and distinguished in a manner to prevent mistakes, it will contribute greatly to the security of lifo and property, and enable navigators, bound either north or south by this point, to shorten their passage by running boldly, when now they are compelled to creep along with the lead constantly going." Ligltt-!touses, beacons, buo?JS, o/c.-Tbe providing and placing the bellbeacon and iron-buoy, off Cupe Hatteras, having been intrusted, by the Secretary of the 'l'reasury, to the Coast Survey, a contract bas been made for them to be <leliverccl in the spring of 1852, the earliest period at which it was deeme<l safo to place them. In the Appendix (No. 2lJ) will he found a report upon the subject of lights and buoys for Beaufort harbor, North Carolina; also, in the Ap· pen<lix, (No. 30,) a report upon the necessity for u light-house on the Upper J ettee, Cape Fear river, North Carolina. In rcgar<l to the former, J_.ieutenunt Commanding Maffitt observes, that if the lights and buoys be placed as recommended, vessels will enter the harbor in safoty, by day or night, without a pilot. 'fhe suggestions of Lieutenant Commanding Jenkins, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, in reference to lights and buoys in the vicinity of Hatteras shoals, have just been given in full un<ler the head of hydrogrnphy.
SEc'rlON V.-r.·noM CAPE FEAR TO THE ST. MARY'S RIVER, INCLUDING
THE COAST OF THE STATES OI·' SOV'rII CAROLINA AND GEOUGIA.-

0 ught to be built nild plnced in the slue,. at the distance· of fourteen

(Sltetclr E.)

In this section two parties have been in the field engaged· in triangulation and two in topogra,phy, besides the party employed upon ihe hydrography. The operations have been as follows: 1. .Astro_nomical observati?ns at. Savapnah, at~d the preliminary triangulatwn of tlw en~rance to, Savannah nver., (1'5ee sket~h E.' ~o. 2.) . 2. The conncxwn of Charleston and 8avannah for d1tlerence of longitu<le by telegraph. . . . . 3. The triuncrulution of North Edisto nver, South Carolma. (Sketch 0 "' E, No.,3.) · 4. Secondary triancrulation of St. Helena sound and tlie South Edisto and Ashepoo rivers, ~xten<lirl{! from E<list:o island on the north to the Hunting islands on the south~ coast of South Carolina. (Sketch E, No. 3.) 6. A topographical survey of North Edisto river. (Sketch E, No. 3.) (i. A similar survey of part of Savannnh river. (Sketch E, No. 2.) 7. Complctio~ of th~ hydrograpby of Charleston bar, approaches, and harbor. (::sketch E.) S. Hy<lrogrnpliic rc;omiaissance of Savannah river and bar. (See sketch E, Nos. 4, and o.) 9. Hydrography o~· North Edisto .bar and river. (Sketch E, No. 7.) 10. 'ri<lal obscrvat10ns day and mght at several stations. A map of Charleston harbor, on a large scale, has been engraved, and will be published at once.

S. Doc. S.
A chart of Savannoh bnr and another of the harbor, with the 11 Main," ''Front" and "Back" rivers, hnve been furnished to the office, and ore engraved and nearly ready for publication. The plnte of the chnrt of Bull's bay, on the coast ofSouth Carolina, northeast of Charleston harbor, is in process of re-crigrnving. (8ce sketch E, No. 6.) The chart of North Edisto river and harbor of rcfose is put in hand for engraving, and will be published as curly as practicable. At the request of the Chnmber of Commerce of Clmrles1:.9n, and by authority of the Treasury Department, a copy of the Charleston harbor lllap, on a large scale, has been executed, and will speedily be furnished to that body. (See Appendix, No. 30 bis, for correspondence.) After a fair trial in this section, it has been found expedient to cnuse the secondary, and in some cases the tertiary, triangulation to precede t!1e primary. The grcate5t difliculty in the primary work is the preliminary tracing, thrqugh .woods and swnmps, and the cutting. The secondary and tertiary work following the circuitous course of the streams, nn<l availing itself.everywhere of continuous natural or nrtifi<.:inl openings, riiforcls means of running the primary lines from point to point with approximate accuracy, and of correcting readily any errors which occur in running. In executing this triangulation on and near Edisto island, and along the rivers which intersect it, pnrts of the base of the primary triangulation, which had been marked m the inensurement, have been used, as convenience suggested, for the bases of the secondary work. · 'l'hc difforence of longitude of Clmrloston nnd Savannah was deterlllincd by telegraph, the line having been kindly placed at our dii<posul, niter business hours, by tho pn'sident of tbe company, Elam Alexander, esq. At tho Charleston end tl1e observations were made by Profossor Lewis IL Gibbcs, nt his observatory; and at the Savannah end by U.Hsistant C. O. Boutelle. This connect.'! the Scnton i;;tation nt W nshington with Savn1111ah, tho dif-forencc of longitude of Charleston and Wnsliington having been determined in our operations of the previous

Year.
. A full report of the computations of the ohsrrvntions by which the <11fforcnce of longitude wus obtained, between Professor Gibbes' observatory, in Charleston, and the Seaton station, nt 'Vashington, has been lllado by assistant S. C. \Vnlker. 'l'ho rncn.n result is, Charleston west Of Washington llm. 45.27s., with a probable error of ±: 0.02s. In April last I visited the parties m this section for th(' inspection of ~heir work, and to arrange the details of instructions to tho topo<rraphlcrtl. and liydrograpliic parties in Savannah river. 'l'hc work wns obviously n.dvaucing very sntisfoctorily, and the difliculties which n.t.tendccl its beginning wore giviug way before the increased e:xporicncc of those engaged. The kindness rcceiveu from the gentlemen nca1· whose residences the operations of.the parties bring tlicm, nrnl the facilities uniformly exte:i~led in the exe1Jution of the work, in many cCLscs nt Et considcrn b le ~acnfi:e of personal convenience, arc acknowledged by all the parties 1 11 their .re~or~s. As a p~blie acknow~edgmc1;t by name might be deemed mtrus1ve, I take this method of retummg the best thanks of those employed in this section of the survey.

·S. Doc. 3.
Astronomical Observa.tiona.-The observations for ti:tne, latitude, a.zj.. muth, an4 difference oflongitude from Charleston, at the Exchange of Savannah, were made by assistant C. 0. Boutelle, aided by Lieuten· ant Joseph s.·Totten, United States army, detailed for coast survey service; arid during a brief period by Professor E. Yulee. An astronomical clock by Kessels had been converted by Mr. Saxton into a circuit breaker, and was used for the observations of locnl time and for transmission of telegraphic time signals to Charleston. The. transits of sixty-five stars were telegraphed to Charleston, and of fifty-eight were received from thence. They were usually observed on all the twenty-five wires of the diaphragm, and all were recorded on the Morse registering fillet. Two hundred and forty transits of sixty-five stars were observed for local time and deviation. The transit instrument was one of those of forty-five inches focal length, by Troughton & Simms, (C. S. No. 4,) with a diaphragm of twenty-five wires, by W iirdeman, of Washington. · The observations for latitude were made with a new zenith telescope by William W iirdeman, of W ashii29ton, (C. S. No. 6,) which is spoken of in terms of commendation by lVlr. Boutelle. Seven hundred and fony-six observations were made on one hundred and twenty-six stars, paired according to Talcott's method. The values of the m.icro;meter and level scales were duly determined, the former by observations on Polaris at elongation, a method first proposed and used by Mr. Boutelle. The azimuth observations were made, by the kind permission of the mayor of the city, from the cupola of the :Exchange. 'rhe instrument used was a twelve-inch theodolite by Gambey, (C. S. No. 30.) The results are recommended by Mr. Boutelle for adoption in the secondary triangulation only. Pi:ofessor Lewis R. Gibbes has observed at the Charleston ohscrvo.· tory during the past year, for the coast survPy, 39 moon culminations, and 96 transits of moon culminating stars, and six occultations. In connexion with these, 64. observations have been made, with reversal, on cir~umpolar stars, an? on 130 zenith and cquator~al stars, for time and instrumental correct10ns. In tlw t~legni.1;~1 or.erat10ns for longitude, 62 stars were t~lcgraphed .on 1,2~0 wires. I he unportanee of keeping up the observat10ns at various pomts, so as to be sure of corresponding observations with those on the western coast, for longitude, is very great. It secures a clear night for observing, at some one point, when the positions are scattered over a considerable range of country. Primary triangulation, and secondary connected with it.-'l'lie operations were under the charge of assistant C. O. Boutelle, aided, <luring part of the season, by Lieutenant Joseph S. 'rotten, United States army, and during nearly the entire season by J. W. Gregorie, esq. '!'hey were commenced. by t~e tr~angulation of the Nor~h Edisto river, (see sketch E, No. 3,) m.wh1eh nme stations were occupied, and 104 angles measured, on 86 objects, by 785 observations with eight-inch Gambey theodolite, (C. S. N~. 2.) 'rhe services of Mr. Boutelle being required at Savannah, tins triangulation was completed by Mr. J. W. Gregorie, who retraced and opened several lines, and erected signals for the primary triangulation. .In Murch, Lieutenant Joseph S. Totten made a 1·econnaissance for the triangulation from the Edisto to the

an

Stono river, inside of, and parallel to, the sea-beach. The reconnais. ~nnce made by l\Ir. Gregorie up the Dnwho to Ail,ten's station on Je~ossee, and along the Wadmelaw river to New Cut, is shown upon the ~ketch-( sketch E, No. 3.) .Mr. Boutelle rem'arks: "I make it a. point to avoid extensive cutting in secondary triungulu.ti9n, and it is a matter of much difficulty to get triangles of proper form, without it. The houses along the river aid us much in carrymg out our schemes of trttrngulation; and I cannot too often express the obligation we are under, for the uniformly friendly a.nd courteous manner in which our requests to be . ullo\".cd to erect signals und place instruments. upon them are. complied w1th." · · 'l'wo primary stations, viz: the east nnd west ends of the base, were <?Ccupicd by Mr. Boutelle for the ~ea.surcmcnt of horizontal angles, and at one (east end of the bnse) azimuths were measured. ·The observations were made with a theodolite by Wurdeman, (C. S. No. 30.) It was found absolutely necessary to employ heliotropes in order to obtain a sufficient number of observ11tions without a lon~ delay· . In the 011.tire work, of both clas~s, executed by tlus party, from ta.king the fidd in December to the close of the season in May, 15 stations were occupied, and.173 angles measured, on 168 objects, by 2,073 observations. This is in addition to the astronomicul .determination at Savannah, already noticec\. The work was continued as long as the means pl'Oviclcd for this particular party permitted. An exnmination for points of triangulation for the entrance to Savan.. .nab river, to he used by the hydrogrn.phic party in sounding out 'l'ybee bar, wus made by assistant Boutelle in Murch, a.nd it was intended that he should execute this operation personally; but having been temporarily disabled from work by an accident occurring utter his party at :Edisto had been discharged, the triangulntiq_n was made und'fil( his <lircction by Mr. J. W. Gregorio. '~'be prelimintu·y work in.tended for immediate use in a hy<lrographic reconnaissance is shown Olill sketch E .. 'l\velve stations were occupied, and 218 angles measured, on 23 objects,. by 383. observations. 'The operation was closed on the 3d of June. The results of the triungulution of North Edisto river were furnished to the topographical party surveying those shores, and those of the Sn.vannnh i·iver to the hydrogro.phic party sounding the entrance and harbor. . The great activity of the party under Mr. Boutelle iu field-work has involved n cnrrespondin$' nmount of oificc-work, in which he has, except during brief intervals of field duty which have been elsewhere statea, l:ieen lu.boriously engaged. In these computations he has been assisted Messrs. G. A. ,Fairfield and J. R. Offley. Lfoutenant J. S. 'l otten was, on the closing of the field-work in this section, attached to the pnrty of assistant Edmund Blunt in Section 111, (Virginia,) and Mr. j · W ~ G,regorie to that of assistant Bolles' in Section IV, (North Carolina.) ~ccond<~ry triang'ltlation.-~l'he seco_ndnry trinngulnt.ion ·executed by ass1stftnt Charles p, Bolles is shown m sketch E, No. 3. It rests upon a portion of .the base on Edisto island measured for the primary work, and, g~adu1tlly widening out, covers the South Edis.to ~4 Ashepoo dvers, anc.l St. Helena soµnd, furnishin~ a very well cond1t1oncd. scheme of work, and 5eu selected points. tor the use of a. topo_graplucnl p~.

l>r

S.

Doc~

3.

~s$is~ant Bolles cdmmeh~ed th~s 'York in Feb~ary, at!d closed opei:a~ t10ns m May; he was assisted m it by sub-assistant George A. Fairfield, and during. part of the seaso.n by S. S. Pe!1dleton, .esq. It was carried on under disadvantageous circumstances from the illness of Mr. Bolles, and yet presetits a"·considerable "amount of work ·. /rbe area embraced is 35 square miles, 12 stations were occupied, and 116 angles fneasur~d, on 24 oqjects, by 978 observations, with a six-inch repeating thecidohte by Gambey, (C. S. No. 35.) Soon after closing this work, the services of assistant Bolles were called for, to execute 'the secondary triangulation, already referred to, at the entrance to Cape Fear river, North Carolina. He is now under instructions to complete the triangulation of the Savannah river, already commenced, and to carry the work, which has just· been described, southward and westward, towards Beaufort, South Carolina. 1'opography.-Assistant George JJ. Wise was engaged, with a planetable party and the surveyiul? schooner Franklin, upon the topographical survey of North Edisto nver and harbor of refuge, South Carolina, from February 12 to April 18, when himself"and party were transforre<l to ihe seacoast of Virginia. He was aided bv J. A. Denny, esq. Both shores of the·tiver are embraced in· this survey,. (sketch E, No. 3,) which covers 40 square miles in area, and extends along 100 miles of' shore-line and 44 of roads. The base measured in 1850 on Edisto island fornished marked points, which were made available for the tollographical sur:vey. Sub-assistant S. A. Wainwright, with another party, during the two monthseuding June 7, was employed in the topographical survey for a harbor chart of Savannah river. His work has established the points used by Lieutenant Commanding Maffitt, United States navy, for the hydrography~from ·Ji~lba island to Argyle island, .on both sides of Hutchinson's island, including eight and a half miles of shore-line; from Elba· islan~ to Savannah City, (~omprising t~e· wharves,) ·on the south si?e of the river; an<l from Elba islan:d to a httle below the south base si,gnal on the north side, (see sketch E, No. 2.) From this section Mr. Wainwright and party were transferred to work along the eastern shore of Virginia. Hydrograpliy.----Lieutenaut Commanding J. N. Maffitt, United States navy, with. the C~ast Survey schooner G~llatin? (after being a few days employed m Section IV,) returned to this section December 12, 1860. He resumed the survey of Charleston bar and approaches, and in about one month com,pleted .the.soundings. requisite for the. chart of that harbor. Thence he passed to North Edisto inlet, South Cuxolina, and, after much interruption from boisterous weather, finished,· March 6, 1851, the h~drography ?f that river and bar, (sketch E, No. 7.) In the Air pend1x (No. 30.tris) are sa.ili11g directionB, which have been published, famished by .Lieutenant Commanding Maffitt, for the entrance into that harbor of refuge. "It is about sixteen miles to the southward and westward of Charleston light·house, and is easy of access one course over·the bar taking the vessel toa safe anchorage. At meu~ low water thete are thirteen feet on the bar. The mean rise and fall is six foet." The·hydrogra.phical reconnais~ance of Sav.annah bar. and river wns next undertaken; the shore part:tcs co-operatmg being furnished witli

a boat's rorew from the vessel. The work, completed JunQ 4, extends.. from one mile outside of the outer bur buoy, embraces the "Main," 1 · ·Front,n and "Back" rivers, and terminat~s at Argyle Tree, six miles ~hove the city of Savannah, (sketch E, Nos. 4 and 5.) The statistics of the work m this section are as follows: ·Number 1Jf ·observations of angles. . · . · · . . · . · . . · · · · · · · . · · · 2,069 Number of soundings .................................. 60,001 Miles sounded over ......···..··.···...·....··.·· - · · · . · 1,237: Number of specimens taken of bottom ·····.· ~ ·· ,. ~ . · · · · · · · 95, Number of sets of current observations . . · · . · . · · · . · . · · · · · . 14:. From d1e Savannah river Lieutenant Commandin~ Maffitt returned to Section lV; and, ofter necessary delays for repairs of vessel and shipment of a crew, entered on the reconnaissance of the bars of Smith-: ville and New river, North Carolina. A permanent tide-gauge was erected at Fort Pulaski, entrance of Savnmwh river, where ciu·eful observations, day and night, of the tides have been regularly mode since January. · A perman~nt tide-gauge hus also been erected at Castle Pinkne~, in Charleston harbor; but circumstances have not heretofore pcnmtted tidal observn.tions to be made ·with the sume regularity. At North Edisto inlet the tides were observed, day and night, for eight weeks. Besides their field-work, I.ieutcnant Commanding Maffitt and party huve completed und turned in the following office-work, in mupping their results, viz: A chart of Charleston bar nnd harbor. . Another of the same bur and approaches, with additional work on Rattlesnake shouls, which wa.s off the limits of the original sheet. · ·A chart of Savannah bm·, from one mile-outside of the outer bar buoy, to Cockspur. .' , One of Su.vanmih Mnin river, from Cockspur to Shad's Chimney. · Another of Snvunnuh Front and Back rivers, from Shad's Chimney ~ Argyle Tree.· A chart of North Edisto bar and river. Charts of Beaufort, North Carolina, bur nncl harbor. · Lieutenu.r1t Commanding Maffitt renders acknowledgments for the c?urtesy and fo.cilities extended to him, while employed in Savannah river, by the officers of the u1·my there stationed. Sso-rxoN
Vl.-FROM THE sT. MARY'S RIVER TO ST. JOSEPii's BAY,. COAST 01'' FLORIDA, AND INCLUDING 'l'HE FLORIDA UEEF .AND KEYS,-

, (Sketch F.)
o~r ~on.st }ul.s been pushed vigorously, us for as the appro:eriation per-

The work on this important nnd comparatively ill-known portion

of

nutted, in all its branches. 'l'he land parties have had m use three vessel.s belonging to the coast survey, or hired for the purposes of tra11sportnt10.n; .and the hyclrographic party the Coast Survey a.teamer Hetzel, wluch had been put in thoroug~1 repair after the i:cc1den~ of. last Year at Cape Canaveral. Four parties have thus been m the field, en. ,gaged on the main and s~<;ondary triangulations, the hy.drography u.ncl

68
topography of those keys and reefs where the need of information was most urgent. It should be remembered that the appropriation recommended by the Treasury Department in 1848-49 for the speedy survey of this section;· was reduced from $100,000 to $30,000, and that the present limited scale of work merely provides ·for the ordinary rate .of progress. Even as it is, however, the knowledge acquired and now ready for publication· will be of no small value towards the saving of life and property, so often lost or perilled on this coast. The habors of Key West and Codar Keys, the passage of the Boca Grande, and many of the smaller keys and reefs, have been thoroughly examined and mapped;. mistakes of charti; in present use rectified; and determinations made for the sites· of lights arid lmoys indispensable to the safoty of navigation. Accompanying this report are-the general sketch 1'', showing the progress of work in this section; sketch :F', No. 2, showing on a larger scule the progress of Cedar Keys, Dry Tortugas, Key West, Bahia Honda, and Key Biscayne; sketch F; No. f>, of the harbor of Key West and its approaches; sketch F, No. 4, of the harbor of Cedar Keys, witb Suwannee bay to the northward and westward, and W acassassa bay and the harbor and 0ffing of Crystal river to the southward and eastward; and sketch F, No. 3, of Mosquito harbor. The new channel at Key West, mentioned in my last annual report as indicated by the work for that season, has been found to afford a depth of 26 foet. · ·. 'l'he depth that can be carried tl1rough the passage of Boen Grande is ascertaine,d to be 13 tept.. Into Cedar Keys bay it is found that, by the main channel under Sea-horse key, 12 foot can be brought in, and, perhaps, under favorable circumstances, 14. · Examination·has confirmed the vaguely reported existence, off Crystal river and below Cedar Keys, of a harbor and anchorage (in the bay now called St. Martin's, just south of the With1ucoocbee river) into which 12 foet, and, under favorable circumstances, 14 feet of water may be carried; a;nd which w~ll he ~altm~>le not only as ·a shipping rort for the produce of several ne1ghbormg nvers, but as a place of refuge for con.sting vessels. Jt rtJ.ay be remarked, as a matter of general interest, that the survey indic.ates Way key ~s the most desirable a~1d, indeed, the only suitable termmus for the railroad across the pemnsula, 'l'he anchoruge nt Crystal ri'yer being at some distance from the main land, renders that pomt ineligible; besides, that the route would be over rivers and marshes to reach it. · Profossor Agassiz has lent the aid of his distinguished. talents. in. an examination, the results of which arc embodied in a rc{'ort discuss1.'n8 th~ topography Florida, its reef~ keys, coral ree£., (living .and dead,) ship-channel, mm? lancl, coast, and the physical changes m the Gulf Streaip. Apa.rt from the fact that this report would be too much extended by including that doc~mcnt, its importance requires that I should make it the subject of a special communication. · This examination was imperiously culled for by the contradictory. statements in regard to the character of the reef in its different portions, being by some represented as composed of living and growing coral~

of

S. Doo. 3.
-by others of boulder masses ofd.ead coral; sustaining, fo the two cases,
altogether a different relation to navigation, and to the questions of sites for light-houses and sea-m1uks. The very interesting question of the past growth of the Florida reefs and the formation of the present penin~ul';l- of Florida, and of the keys which form such remarkable appenduges to it, has. been fully solved by Professor Agassiz, who has also shown what may be expected in the future; and, establishing the foct that the existence of the coral depends upon the depth of the sea, proves that no reef is to be expected exterior to the one existing. Thi~, of course, supposes that no change occurs in the relative level Qf the land and water; and here, again, the labors of Professor Agassiz have been in the highest degree valuable, by establishing that no gt.m.cral ehange of this kind is going on in that part of the coast; the phenomena <>f growtlt of the reef, formation of the k.eys and of the main land, being .explicable without such supposition. I have extracted such portions of ~he report of Profossor Agassiz as bear most immediately upon the sub~ects of ruy present report, in the Appendix No. 10; but the whole work ·is too valuable to permit any portion to be lost, and I therefore respectfully recommend that it be presented to Congress by the department in a separate report. Hourly observations of the tides near Key West have been made under my instructions, and the immediate directiori of Lieutenant Commanding John Rodgers, United States navy. They have been plotted, and are in course of reduction 11.nd discussion, in the sume manner as those at Cat island, Louisiana. '!'he results u.re of great interest in ref~ ~rence to the general subject of tides in the Gulf of Mexico; but the investigation is, perhaps, in its present stage, too purely technical to tnake an extended notice desirable in this report. l'bere are two high nnd two low tides daily n.t Key West; the successive tides being nearly qual about the time of the moon's passing the equator, and there being nt other periods one stmlller and one larger tide in the course of the twenty-four hours. This cliurnal inequality is a very rcmlll"kable foa· ture, and can already be approximately calculated. The work of this section will be resumed as early as arrangements can be made for the ensuing season. Recomw.isw.ncc, triangulatwn, ~t.-Assistnnt F. H. Gerdes has been occupied (with the exception of a brief absence on duty in Section VIII) from November 1st, 1860, to June 20th, of this yem·-first, in recon,. no.issances, having for their object to select stations for the muin trian.. gulation, and to connect the Tortugas with the mnin body of tho work; second, in preparing, clearing and ~rading a base line 011 Key Biscayne, nnd another at Cape Sable; third, m the establishment of stations, main and secondary, und in the triangulation. · '!'he description of the cou.st and other information conveyed in Mr. '?erdes' report of u reconnuissn.nce, which extended from Suwannee river to St. M11rtin' s reef~ are of so much interest that I annex the report nearly entire. (See Appendix., No. 31, n.n<l sketches J!', Nos. 1 and 4.) bM.r. G.erdes has found thrtt, by fixing 11 signal upon Rebecca shoal, tt out m1clWa.y between the 'l'ortugas nnd the Marquesas, the former gro_up may be brought into connexion with the gonerul sch~me of main

.s..noe. s.
triangulation. This.. plan involves less time and expense than unose pre'.viously suggested, and dispenses with the use of retlectimg instruments ·and of floating signals. A short base must be measured on the 'l'ortu;.. ·gas, and an astronomical station for azimuth observations be made there. In that group, the triangulation from the Logger-Head base will furnish a· proper side of nearly five miles, and a distance of four miles may be had at the Marquesas from the eastern triangulation. · The base lines, referred to in my last annual report, have been cleared with some labor, levelled, and well pre:pared for measurement. (See sketches F No. 3, and F No. 4, report of 1860.) . In the triangulation of this season 30 signals have been put up, and ·determined from 11 stations, forming 41 triangles, and embracing the ·whole of the harbor, with all four channels of the Cedar keys, and the islands themselves. A small preliminary base of about two miles wn& measured on Way key by chaining, and the ends, as well as all the sta.·tions of the triangulation, secured by posts. Six of the primary stations· have been marked by stone monuments. 'fhe area covered by the triangulation exceeds 40 square miles ; 96 angles were observed, usually 'by six repetitions direct and six reversed, sometimes by more frequent repetition. Assistant Gerdes and party have also carried on their office-work·computation of results-during the season. · Secondary triangulation C!f keys and rerj:-This part of the work was conducted by assistant J.E. Hilgard from December 20, 1850, to Feb·ruary 1, 1861, and from that time up to June 3d, (when the season was at an end,) py assistant L. F. Pourtales. The field of operations em·braced Boca Chica, Key West, and the Marquesas, during the 'former :porti?n of the season; and durin~ the latter, Key Bis~ayne b~iy, in~luding Bol~1er key, Ragged ke~s, Elliott's key, and Rub1co~ Pomt, with the roam land from Shoal Pomt (twenty-five and a half miles, by the shoreline, sout~ward from the mouth of the Mi~mi rive~) to Turkey P?int. (S~e sketcpes F No. 1 and F No. 2.) Mr. Hdgard gives the followmg statistics of his work: 9 stations occupied; 18 ditto observed upon; 100 an·gles, each the mean of six repetitions, observed (with the eight-inch Oambey theodolite, C. S. No. 24 ;) area of the work, 78 square miles. Mr. ,Pourtales reports 3 stations occupied; 18 points observed upon; 497 sets of measures of angles made; urea of work, 70 square miles. · ~is comparatively small progress is accounted for by difficulties oc·cas10ned by the prevailing trade-winds, and by the uncertainty often arising fr~m lateral refraction-the lines passing over shoal water, which rendered it necessary to repeat the observations frequently .. Much time has been occupied and great difficulties encountered, necessarily, in the erection of signals. Where it is necc:~ssa.ry to insert them in the rock of the reefs the patent screw-pile of Mitchell has not yet been succes~fully appl!ed; ~ut it is hoped that, h~fore the next sea:8?n for observat10n, the o~Ject will ~lave been accompJishecl by the addition of a heavy capstan-head n.pphe<l to the screw-pile, and a tripod to steady it. , Should this apparatus not prove effective, the ol~ject may be attained, as suggested by Mr. Pourtales, by a modified application of an axra11ge-

ment already. used by Major Bache, of the United States topographical engineers, consisting of an iron disk sunk into a bed, ana having ~ socket in which to fasten a signal~pole. . Lieu.tenant James Tqtten, United States army, joined this party in the lattea: part of the season, with a view to qualify himself to. take charge 'of u.ts operations· durin~ the next. Topograpliy.-Duri.ng. the first five months of the current year, a party, under charge ·of u.ssistnnt Hull Adams, assisted b~ Mr. R. M. l3ache, was engaged in the survey of the keys and shore·hne indicated in the accompanyin~ sketch F, No. 2. Sheet No. 4 contiuns Man key, Woman key, Mule key, Boca Grande, and the M1u-quesas~ This latter group embraces 9 distinct keys, has an area of 12 square miles, mud a shore-line of 30 miles. Sheet No. 5 contains Bahia Honda ond seventeen smaller keys. Sheet No. 6 contains Key Biscayne, Virginia key, and 26~ miles of the shore of the main land, from the moutfi of Miami river southward to Shoal Point. It may be useful to mention two points on this shore ·wh<:~re excellent fresh water can be procured: one, t11e "Punch Bowl,'' is about two miles, and the other, cnllecl "the Hunting Grounds," about twelve miles, below the mouth of Miami river. . The whole extent of shore·lir1e included in the season's work is 13~ miles, a.nd,the amount of urea 186 square miles. Boca Grnnd~, Wo-man key, and Virginia key, were surveyed by l\Ir. R. M. Bache. The cha.racter of these keys is so little known that it may be well to quote the general description given by Mr. Adams: "'!'here is very little variety in the clmrnctcr of the topography of the keys surveyed during the past season. They arc Beneru}ly covered with a thick growth of mangrove, which .extends qmtc to the water's edge. On the parts of the keys towards the reef, however, there is somcthnes a good beach ; but the entire inner side ii; of mangrove, with ~very deep, thick mud a.long the edge. Upon the southern and eastern sides of t\}e Mnrguesas there is a very good beach, which extends for about six miles, interrupted only by one inlet, of one hundred and fifty tnctre,s breadth. Key Biscayne hu.s a fine wide beach on the eastern ~ide,. nearly four miles in length, of Atlnn~ic. sand,· which is quite different from the shells and ground corul (Gulf snucl) of the othe1· key~. On the western side there is a very high growth of mnngroves, £1,nd the churacter of the mud seems to be much the snme ns that about the other keys. '!'his mangrove thicket extends nearly hnlf across the isfand, for two-thirds of its entire length. '!'he other part is covered With a thick palmetto scrub. The slmrc of the main land, commencing nt Miami river, hus u sort of hummock growth of ubout a quarter of a mile in width for three miles; after which, for about fi.ve miles, there is a prairie growth which extends back to the commencement of the pines. l'his pine land extends, many places, to the everglades. For the next four miles the hnmmocks incren sc in width, interspersed with swamps ~nd prairie grass. A narrow ledge of roc\cs, ubout ten feet in height and covered with trees, is u distinguishing feature of tqe first three or four .miles below the mouth of the Miami river." Hydrograpliy,_;_ The hydrograpbic operntions were delayed by cir~um-

in

st~nces beyond m~ control, and were not commenc~d untµ January. Lieutenant John Rodgers, United States navy, ass1st~nt m the coast survey,· has been in charge of the party, and commanding the Coast Survey· steam.e;r Hetzel, employed in. the work. The minute survey, now completed, of the harbor and upprooches of Key West, has determined the valuable result, that s~fe .passage for vessels of any class into that port may be permanently mdicated. As remarked by Lieutenant Rodg~rs, the difficulties o~ approach f?~ lar~e vessels would at first appear rnsuperable. He pomts out pos1t10ns m which a vessel may have three fathoms on one side, an<l six on the ot~er-.ma:y run over a point with seventeen fe~t water on it~ and ha".e thrrty-s1x feet by both leads. The profile view (ske!ch I<'· No. 5) is furmshed by him to ·illustrate this extreme irregularity of the coral formation. The drawing of the entire chart of Key West (see sketch F, No. 6) is furnished for publication, and i!s 'engraving has .been commenccct The general depth on the spots m the harbor vanes from ten to twenty feet, and is, in their immediate vicinity, from twenty-five to thirty-six feet. Lieutenant Rodgers estimates that a safe channel for the largest ships may be marked out at an expense of about $2,000, by fixed buoys, to be secured with heavy chains and Mitchell's rnoorin~J-screws; and observes that shifting buoys would be worse than useless-a snare. The value of this harbor is well urged hy him, as follows: "All the ocean-commerce of the vailcy of the Mississippi keeps within a few miles of Key West. The harbor is important us a place of refoge and, rep~Lir, and this value grows with the commerce of the
We~t.

"In time of war with a maritime power, its importance will be greatly enhanced, and its waters will be white with every class of sail, either seeking .Protection under its guns, or lying in wait for an enemy." · The important passage of Boca Grande (from the Gulf of Florida into the Gulf of Mexico, used when the winds are light and the Gulf Stream current strong) has I;>een surveye~, and the c~mrt is nearly completed. It has been ascertamed that tlurtcen feet can be carried over · the bar. A survey has been made of Mosquito harbor, which will be further mentioned, in it~ pro.per connexio?,, (see sketch F, No. 3.) For a brief a~couut of the m!e~, its past cond1t1on, and recent changes! see Appendix No. 32, contammg extracts from Lieutenant Comman<lmg Rodgers' report. Soundings were attempted across .the Gulf Stream, from Key Wes~ to Ha~ana, but unfortunately arrested by, the l<~ss of .the line~ and m returnmg from Havana, the new method of soundmg with twine could not be tried on account of bad weather. The experiments, how-' ever, were not without interest. Lieutenant Rodgers states: " We then ran thiity minutes S. S. ,V, by compass, or three miles from the last position, and in the same place .(except drift) the. following casts were ta.ken : 879 fathoms, no bottom, white wax on end of le:i<l untouched. 408 " " " " 760 " " " " 2,977 " " (apparently.)

S. Dorl. ·3.
"In reeling up, the line parted 245 fathoms from the surface of the Water. "At 2,977 fathoms, I thought that the lend had not reached bottom; · b~cause I could perceive no abatement in the velocity of the liM run,. n1ng through Burt's patent sounding nipper. Whether the lead did reach bottom at that depth woulcl have been shown by the wax arming upon regaining the lead; unfortunately it was not regained . . ''After leaving Sand key, the vessel was, by astronomical observations, firRt set to the westward of her course, and nflerwurds to the eastward of it. The lead-line seemed not to partake of this drifr, since the vessel was first set to the westward of the line; and to tl11~ ea.st.Ward of it when the current farther from the shore had become easterly. 'l'hese facts lead me to the inforence (which the diftbrcnce of the temperature shown between the surface water untl the deep-sea soundings may seem to corroborate) thut the current docs not run at auch great depths as the lead reached." . For the season, from Januuty 4 to June 17, 1861, the work of the Steamer and boats amounted to 2,492 miles of soundings, for which there.were 96,332 casts mu,cle of the lead, and 4,120 uugks measured for rosition. . I ending the delay in the arrival of the vessel assigned to Professor Agassiz for transportn.tion, Lieutenant Commanding Rodgers aifordcd his aid and the use of the steamer Hetzel, for the exploration (before hlentioncd) conducted by that gentleman. Ligltt-lwu.Yes, buo11s1 l~c.-Assistnnt Gerdes' examination (Appendix No. :31) has continued tf1e suggestion of Lieutennnt Comrnu.ucling Ju.mes Alden, United States navy, reported last yeur, that Sea-horse key is the only suitable site for a light-house, which wns appropriated for by the la.st CongresR, to be phwcd somewhere in, the approach of Cedar l{eys. It should be placed at a sufficient elevation (for which a Rpot elevated 46g foet is designated by Mr. Gerdes) to show over the whole Seu-horse reef: '!'hat reef lms been found to extend in reulity about fifteen miles, although its .length has hitherto ·been laid dovm on the charts us about seven. Mr. Gerdes adds: "There ought to be a buoy placed on the point ?f this reef~ by all means. In fo!?gy weather the 8ea-horse (key) is invisible from thence, nnd the reef is very difficult to distinguish, us the \Vater outside deepens only grudunlly, and retains the so.me color. A ~crew.pile, (diRk-screw,) with n bnri·el, could be inserted easily, the l'eef being only of quicksund, and a sort of coral sand." . Lieutenant Commanding John H.odgers, United States navy, ossistnnt 111 the coast survey, has surveyed the Mosquito inlet with reforence to ~le placing of..lmoys·. J."or his report see Appendix No. 33, and sketch ~' No. 3. In the same report he discusses the subject of communicn.tion between the local pilot and the vessel, in weather when hoats cu.nnot cross· the bar. Local conventional systems of signnls lmve bee11 lldo1~t;-d for this purpose in some places, hut it i~ higl~ly desirnhle thut uniform. m~thocl should be adopted by nuthonty, for ~11 tho barred . a;bors of t?e United States; ~uch a plan f?rms part of his i:cport, and lt lS respectfully commended for cons1derat1011, (see Appendix No. 33.) Assistant Gerdes recommends very strongly-and his recommendation

h

is concurred in by Lieutenant ·Commanding Rodgers-that a lighted beacon or a light-house be placed on Rebecca shoal, between the Mar· · quesas and Tortugas. The passage in which this shoal or reef lies is a .thoroughfare for vessel~ bound to ports in the Gulf of Mexico; the shoals are therefore dangerous, and at present are not mmked. For the letters of Lieutenant Commanding Rodgers and Mr. Gerdes on this subject, see Appendix No. 34.
SECTION VIII.-FROM MOBILE POtN'I' TO VERMILION BAY, INCLUDING THE COAST OF ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI, AND PAR'l' 01!1 LOUISIANA.-

. (Sketch H.) The operations of this section have been on the same general scale as hitherto, the greater proportion of the means being, however, devoted to the hyclrography, which is proportionubly less aclvanc~cl than the other parts of the work. One secondary triangulation party and one topo~raphical party have been employed in extending the work westwara, over Mississippi sonnd and Lalw Borgne; and a hydrographic party, having an efficient steam-vessel (the Coast Survey steamer Walker) and other facilities, have been occupied in off:.shore. work south of Dauphin and Petit Bois islands, and in-shore work north of the same islands, and in special examinations of Pass Christian harbor and the · mouths of the Mississippi. The secondary triangulation of the previous year was necessarily in part repeated, and a new connexion made with the primary work; which, with the character of the season, has rendered the progress less than was expected. The ttiangulation of the Bay of Biloxi and of St. Louis hay was completed. The topography has well advanced to in· elude both sides of Pass Christian. A steam-launch, constructed by Mr. J. G. Young, engineer United States navy, under the immediate direction of Lieutenant Communding Jas. Alden, for in-shore and harbor work in this section, was unfortunately lost in a storm off the Chandeleur islands in May 1 so that the party had but little aid from her services. The discussion of the tidal observations at Cat i.sland has been continued under my immediate direction, and the results deduced have been found of considerahle interest in a practical and scientific point of view. Persons who had longest observed these tides believed that they were without regularity, and navigatOl's generally who had attended to them, supposed that they resulted from the action of the wind, I have shown, on the contrary, that the results arc strictly referable to law, and do not depend upon the wind, except as a modifying cause. The firsi results deduced are given in a paper presented, by authority of the Treasury Department, to the American Association for tho Advnncement of Science, at their meeting in August, 1860, which, with some fevision, is transferred to the Appendix No. 7. It is not a little curious that a case of the singl?-day tides, to which th?se belong, (having, as o. gen~ral rule, but one lngl~ and one low wat;r lll the twenty-four 110urs) $ho~ld l?e a~?ng tl~e earl~est o~ rec~rd, ~avmg be~n exmnined by New" ton in Ins origmal d1scuss1on of the tides m connexion with the theory of gravitation. '!'he phe:µomcnon mot no further development until i·ecently

i:;,.

m·

. ·:

D oc. .. 3·'·.

observed in the tides of the eastern coast of Asia, n.nd· in tl1e higher re· gions of the northwest coast of America., by the Rfw. W. Whewell, who :was the first successfully·to trace its laws from observntion. 'l'he small rise nnd fall of the water in the Gulf of Mexico, renders exact nnd continual observations necessary to ascertain the facts. Such observations have now been obtained at the two localities of Cat island and Fort Morgan, and will be followed, in due course, by observations nt a suf:. ficient number of points to truce the tides of the Gulf. (See sketch H, ~os. 2 to G.) · A more considerable portion of the means available for this section than in rreceding years has necessarily been devoted during the past Year, an< must be applied in succeedinB ones, to the preparation ot. the results for puhlicntion. The computations have been kept up; the reduced drawings of Mobile hay (two sheets) have been in progress; the engraving of the entrance sheet of Mobile hny has been completed and published; nnd that of one of the sheets of the inner buy has been com-· inenced. 'fhe lower sheet of the bay will form part of the general Const sheet, extending over Mississippi sound, wcstwnrd. · At the request of parties interested, nn examination was commenced of Milneburg hurbor, on I.ake Pontchartrain, the terminus of the railroad from New Orleans. Assistant S. A. Gilbert, utter closing his trillllgulation in this section, visited th~ spot, and has furnished the data. requisite for undertaking its hydrogruphy; but, owing to unavoidable circumstnnces, this information wus not received by the officer in ch11rge of the hydrographic operations, until too lute for him to begin the survey thut ~eason. Lieutenant Commanding Sands, United States navy, is under instructions to exe.cute it during the ensuing Reason. Sketches of the reconnaissance of Pass Christian harbor, and of tho lllouths of the Mississippi, (Pass a l'Outre Ull(l'the Northeast and Southeast Passes) accompany this report. ' The first-named examination was made at the request of the citizens interested in Pass Christitm. That town occupies n somewhat important relation to New Orleans 11s a healthy summer residence for families; and it is represented that intercourse is rendered difficult, and the mails delayed, by frequent grounding of the steamers.upon the shoals. (See sketch H, No. 9.) , By the recounuisso.nce of the Mississippi ddtu, (sketch H, No. 8,) an interesting comparison is furnished with the survey made' by Captain Andrew Talcott, corps of engineers United States army, in 1839, showing that the marshes have genernlly been extending farther out to seaward; that the channel has deepened ut the Pass a l'Outre, and become shoaler at the Northeast and Southeust Passes. The judicious recommendations ofl.. ieutcnunt C. P. Putterson, United States navy, in regard to b~ncons u.nd buo.Ys upon this co1~st, '~hic}1 he had made a mutter of special study, and m respect to wluch }us views were seconded by his successor, still remain unucted up~u, a·s.nt the date of my last annual report. To what is ulready cont111necl m that r~port I can add nothing hut a respectfully renewed invitation of attention to the suqject. Should the scheme there sugBested uppenr of too ~uch mngnitucle to be embraced in the appropriations of a single year, it rnn.y o.t least be commenced, and gruduully and systematically carried

s~

.Doc. a:

out to completion, so that partial benefits shall be reallied in proportfon to its progress. The commerce of Mobile bay, and of the harbor.s of Cat and Ship. islands, has great need of sucn facilities for navigation· (See Appendix, Nos. 35 and 36.) · For the determination of differences of longitude by methods described in my lust annual report, I have had in view the establishment of ti station for telegraphic connexion between New Orleans and W ushin<Yton, by the line of the coast or by a line passing through Cincinnati and the valley of the Mississippi. Assistant Gilbert recommends Fort Wood or: Fort Pike as suitable and convenient points for the purpose of con" necting with the coast line of telegraph, being included in the schenie of triangulation, and within a fow hundred yards of the telegraphic. wires from New Orleans to Mobile. Tria.ngulatiori, (sketch I-1.)-This portion of the work was under charge of assistant Samuel A. Gilbert, who was supplied with a small vessel for transportation, and was aided, during the latter part of the season, by Mr. Charles M. Bache. 'I'he party was engaged for five months, ending May 20th-first, in the triangulation of Biloxi bay; second, in connecting that series with the main scheme to the eastward; thir'd, in the repetition of observations of the previous year in St. Louis bay, unsatisfo.ctory through defect of the ~nstrument; and finally, in the extension of the secondary triangulation westward over Mississippi sound and Lake Borgne to the eastern shores of Lake Pontchartrai~1. Mr. Gilbert's summary of results is as follows: "The area covered by the triangulation of Biloxi bay is 4~ squll;re miles. The area covered by the work necessary to the connexion with the main seties, and previously covered by it, is 40 square miles. 'l'he area covered by the triangles remeasured is 96 square miles-being in all 184 square miles. "The area covered by the triangulation as yet unobserved, but of which all the signals have been erected, is 608 square miles. The number of angles measured is 67, for the determination of which 94 · · series of 12 repetitions each, and 8 of 6 repetitions Cf;l.ch, or 1,176 ·angles, were observed." '!'he experience of the party indicates the months of May and June as more favorable for observing, in this region, than the thrctJ months preceding. . Assistant F. H. Gerdes made a brief visit to this section, which was emrloyed in erecting permanent marks at the main stations. . 'l'r~pogmphy,, (sketch H.)-Assistant W. E. Green~ell was eng~.ged m tlns duty, mded by Mr. 'Y· M.·Johnson,,aud hav~n~ tl~e use of the Coast Surv~y schooner Phremx. The resultmg work is indicated by the accompanymg sketch, which emhrnces (in three sheets, markcd 18, 19, and 17, respectively) Pass Christian and its vici?ity, the Bay of Biloxi, and ·coast eastward as for as West Pascagoula river. Upon the general top?graph:r of these sections, Mr. Greenwell's remarks may be quoted, . · .. as interesting: "The character of the country embraced m sheet No. 17, or the one running from West Pascagoula river to Biloxi bny, is similar in ever:/_ respect to that described in previous reports-the shores being low anCJ.' smooth, thickly wooded to the very water with pine, principrilly, inter-'

S. Doc. 3.
SperRed with magnolia and hammocks of live-oak. Skhting the shore along is here and there a settlement, whh small spots of cultivated ro;ound, w~ilst the interijl, ~or ~iles and 1:11i~e~ hack, iii! hut a dense orest of pmc, apparentlY"'in its wild and prnmtlve state. "'rhe character of the tor.ogr11:phy upon sheet No. 18 is very similar to ~he one just described. rhe town of Pass Christian, situated upon a ndge of fast land, about twenty feet above high water, sloping gradually towards the sound and again hack in the interior, prescilts the 0 nly foature different from sheet 17. Around it is the same wild, thick forest of pine as seen along the whole coast. "'rhe foatures of the country embraced in the Biloxi sheet are somewhat clifforcnt from that just described. On the cast shore of Biloxi hoy the banks are ahrur.t, being from twenty-five. to thirty foet in height, and of a red cla.yish s011. Here, too, unlike the other pnrts of the coast, the .shores are quite thickly settled, and improvements have been made, ~nd are still making, which, in a few years, will muko it u place of some 1tnportance. · "Along the shores of the 'Back hay,' ttnd on the honks of the h~yous emptying into it, are at present, in successful operation, many ~~Us, foundries, &c. From these ond other resources a trade between ilo:xi and New Orleans is kept up, amounting to nhout $390,000 per annum,. keeping in constant employment about eighty or ninety vessels, atnountmg 111 a.11 to about three thousand five hundred tons." During the sea.son of five months (December to June) the area sur-: Veycd was 65 square miles; the length of shore-line 227, of roads 27, and of streets and wharves 115 miles. Rydrogmplty, (sketch H, Nos. 7 to 10.)-The pnrty under charge ?f Lieutenant Commanding Jam0s Alden, United States navy, nssist:ant 111. the coast survey, was engaged in the sur\'ey of Bon Secours buy ~ntil its complGtion, when that officer was tmnsforrcd to 1rnothcr section · . he operations were conducted during the remainder and gren.ter ~mr tion of the sen.son hy Lieutenant Comrnnncling B. !<'. Sands, Umted States navy, assistant in the coast survey. '!'he steamer Walker was npr,roprin.ted for the use of this party. rho work otf the entrnnce of Mobile bn.y was extended off~sl10re, both eastward and westward, (south of Dauphin and Petit Bois islnnds,) to the distance of eight or ten miles. Pn.ss Christian, in Mississippi sound, wus, in com1)Jinnce with a special request of the resid(mts, closely sounded from Henderson's Point to nenr Pitcher Point, rmcl three and a lu1lf miles from shore. It is thus described bv Lieutenant Comlnanding Sands : ~ 1 · ' A ~lepth of seven feet enn he brought into the chnnncl from the ~est by keeping the weflt hericons open to the southwn.rd, passii1g to e southward of the first beucon nnd northward of the second. At. tho ~ast~rn beacons it is rather shouler; 0.3 feet. can be tnkcn in, wit!1 he mner beacon open to the eastward of the new church steeple unul ~enrly up ;vith thn.t beacon, nnd thence to the steamboat whur±: 'l'ho ,o~tom hmng soft and the current strong, I should suppose u. mud-ma<Jhine could, at compn.rn.tivcl:y little expense, deepen the ohnnnol ut the enst and west bencons sufficiently for st.en.mhout navigu.tion." A reconnaissance was ulso made, by the same officer, of the Missis-

sippi delta1 to w,hich I have already referred as showing considerable · change. "Tqemarshes have made out seaward, mud.Jumps have been ~ashed awu,y,_ and others _formed.". Jfr~m ~~report I quotethe follow., mg useful ac1v1ce for entermg the M1ss1ss1pp1 !lver: · "On account of the frequent changes on the bars, no sure sailing.. directions can be given for crossing at any of the passes. Ve.ssels shourd: not approach the shore nearer than the depth of ten fathoms without a pilot, as it shoals up from that <l<>pth rapid~y; and at night, after seeing: tbe light at Northeast Pass, they should heave to or anchor outside of· ten. fathoms until daylight, when the J.>ilots und tow-boats come out. " The tow-boats generally anchor mside of the entrance, and in fair 'veather cruise off from ten to fifteen miles. Vessels are rarely delayed: for want of tow-boats, as there is considerable competition, and they keep. a good lookout for the offing." . The progress effected this season is shown in sketch H, of which the· sheet marked No. 11 indicates the work of Lieutenant Commanding Alden, the remaining sheets that of Lieutenant Commanding Sandsthe former embracing 95 square miles of area, 223 miles of soundings, and 13,760 casts 6f the lead; the latter, 276 square miles of aren, 688 miles of soundings., and 28,244 ca.sts of the lead. The .time employed: was from January 16 to June 10, 1861. Ftom the results furnished by the hydrogmphic surveys, sailing"'. directions for Horn Island pass were made out and communicated to. parties interested. (See Appendix, No. 37, and sketch H, No. 7.)
SECTION JX.-FROM VERMILION BAY TO THE BOUNDARY, INCLUDIN<l 'THE COAST 01<' PART OF LOUISIANA .AND 'l'EXAs.-!(8ketch I.)

. The work in this section has been conducted on the scale of previous years, three parties being in the field. · Its progress is r~presented on tho general sketch I. The trinngulation has been carried from the ·vicinhy of Galveston as fo.r westward as the Brazos river, and. all the primary and secondary station-points secu,red by permanent marks. An attemEt to extend the secondar~ work into East b~y foile?, from ins~fficient depth of water, no means of land transportation hemg accessible. The topography of the bays about Galveston hns been completed, as also the hydrography of the harbor, entrance, and approaches. rl'he chart of Galveston entrance is in course of reduction for publication, nnd its en" graving is provided for. A hydrographic reconnaissance and deline., ation of Aransas Pass and minute examinations of sites for light-houses in Galvcst<?n ba:y will be reported under thei!· proper head. The mP.id anc~ extensive changes of the Aransas bur will nppear worthy of special notice. Peculiar difficulties a.re opposed to the work by the climate and topog" raphy of this region, which disturb the atmosphere so ns to destroy its .transpor~n?Y; and wh!ch; ~ave induced th~ rec<~mmendntion by assistant Wilharns of a d1mm1shed length of sides for the triangles· · The obstacle of the belts of timber on .and. about the Brazos, whioh proved somewhat in the way of the triangulation, is supposed to be the only feature of the kind on the coast of Texas, from the Sabine to the Rio Grande.

S..

Doc~

3.

79

·. -llourly observations of tides have been instituted, and will be kept These tides are observed and ~rscussed on the same plan as those of Cat islund and Mo~ile bay, in 849 and 1850-01, and as nt present nt Key West-formmg part of a 8l~t~m for ~.scertaining the tidal phei;iomena of the Gulf .o~· Mexico. 'lriangulatwn, (see sketch I.) Assistant James S. W1llmms has been in chnrge of this portion of the work, aided by sub-assistant Spe~ cer C. McCorkle, who was for the most part separately engn~ca m re~onnaissance and observations for the secondary and tertiary trmnguation. The .Coast Survey schooner ·Belle was in the service of the Party. · .. . ·, ~l'he main triangulation bus been connected, from the newly occu:i:iied Pru:nary stations, Chocolate and Hull's bayou, with thnt of the previous ~ea.'lon. In extendin$ the scheme westward from the new stnuon Perilllsula, assistant W ilhams was encoµntered by the serious, and, on this ~ast, exceptional.obstacle, of heavy belts of timber on the Brazos river· ~ster creek, nn<l Bastrop ho.you. He hus, however, so seleeted the y.oints Jupiter and Hnmilton, that the line fr9m the Peninsula to the 1rmer, although strikin$ the villages of Velasco and Quintana, passes hong a street, and the Imes from Hamilton to the other two points puss t rough openings in the timber. In observing over the long lines of sight of the main triangles, great 0 ~stncles are encountered, which Mr. Williams thus enumerates: "'l'he c imate of this region, unless the last season is nn exception to its gener~l character, is sin~ularly unfovorabl~. for exte!'lded geo<leti~ operations. The storm.y wmter, the short tw1hght! nnd ~ntcnse heat of clo.udl~ss summer; the frequent, almost constant, lugh wm<ls; the hazy, 1msty lllr,l'-nll battle aguinst progress; indeed, the air may be said to be cleur 0 nly durin~ a norther, when it is impossible to make an instrument Steady 011 its high tripod." In one case, twenty-three dn.ys were occupied in endeavoring to effect lll~asurements that in a favorable atmosphere would huve required but a f~w hours. Mr. Williams recommends conu·ucting the sides of the ~n1n triangles, that more results mny be obtained in proportion to the time. · · · 'l'he secondary .nnd tertiary triangulation bus substantially aclvancecl as fo.r as tbe Brazos river. '!'he contraction of the side between Ovster creek and Rattlesnake secondary stations, somewhat marring the ~ym· lllet;~ of the general scheme, was u judicious measure of economy td a:vo1n cutting throu~h heavy .timber. Some time was ~ost in nn unsu?· . ~ssf1:1l attempt, before ment10ned, to extend the work mto ·East bay, m e other direction. · · "Jn refoyence to t~e preservi:ition of stutious, ~ssistnn~ Willinms reports: · he pnmary points that have been occupied <lurmg the seu.son are each marked by an earthenware cone, buried three and a half feet below the ·surfnee; upon this a wooden piece, one foot square, rests, ar!g supports a granite block,. two foet long und ten inches square, marke<l bltth a cross' upon its middle point. Besides this, three Slllaller granite . ocks are sunk· to within three inches of their upper surface-north, ·south, and east from the centre, and three feet distant. '!'he secondary

'Up 'by observers stntioned at Galveston.

'

points are marked by the cone in the centre, and the three blocks dis-posed, as a.hove, aro1md it." . ' In this season, from DecC'mber 10, 1850, to June 10, 1851, 8 stations. have heen''occupied, of which 3 were primru:y, and· 6 secondary; 69 a.ogles measured from 2,484 ohservation.s; 16 signals have been put up, giving 163 square miles in area of primary 1 and 99 square miles of secondary triangles. 'l'he instrument used by assistant Williams was C. S. theodolite No. 31. · A.ssi:;tunt Williams, in his report of a reconnaissance for triangula., tion, remarks upon the unusual topography of a portion of the .coast1 as follows: "I have found along th~.,, Brazos river amt Oyster creek (\vhich run nearly parallel for twenty miles from the Gulf) belts of heavy timber, principally live-oak, coming down to· within five miles of the gulf; and varying in breadth from one to three miles. Crossing Oyster creek at a point about fifteen miles from the gulf, and proceeding eastwii.rd, I found heavy live-oak timbei· on the head of Bustrc;ip bayou." 1'opogmphy.-The party of sub-assistant J. M. Wampler was in the fiel<l during the first five months of 1851, and had in use the Coast Survey schooner Nymph. Its duties were mu.de arduous by u.n inclement season, and by the necessity of often working at stations covered, with water. . The results of the work are comprised in a complete topographical mar of Galveston hay, (sec sketch I, No. 2,) of wluch about one-third. hac been uccomfJlished the previous season. 'rhc amount of work may he redwnec as follows: shore-line surveyed, 281 miles; a,rea of count q, l SS it square miles; and 26 miles of roads. It includes West bay, East ·hay, and Bolivar peninsula, Turtle bay, and the delta of Ti:inity river. . Hydrograplty.-Lieutenari.t. Commanding T. A. Craven, United States na.vy, assistant in the coast survey, was in charge of the party, and of the Coast Survey schooner Morris, engaged in this work. He has made a survey (see sketch I, No. 2) of Galveston harbor und its ap"'. · proachcs. Sheet No. 1 comprises the harbor, and sheet No. 2 the bar and approaches. · Puring the seq.son, from March 19 lo .June 29, the lines of soundings amounted to 484 miles; the number of soundingi! being 31, lOO, and the i'..irea surveyed 56 square miles. The soundings were ma.de in depths cf from one foot to eight fathoms. 1,G66 observations of angles. were made, The depth of water on Galveston bar is stated to be twelve foet. Lieutenant Commanding Craven has also made a special examinn-· tion iJf Clopper's bnx, lled Fish bar, and Half Moon sboal, in Galveston bay; and of AransaR Pass, the entrrmce used for Corpus Christi ns well as Aransas ha,v. All of these (see Rketches I No. 2, and I No. 3) :will be rcforred to m their proper connexion. I may quote here, how..,~, ever, I 1icuteuant Craven's mention of the l'emurkable chnrwes about 0 Ani'.psas Pass, (sketch I, No. 3,) as follows: 11:'fhc point in my reconnaiss11nce designated as 'Old ll11.ngc;' wast' in 1S46, wit/tin 120 11arda ef tlte duinnel, and the 'Runge' itself was awash.'. It is now 360 metres fror,µ the beach, and upwards 9f. half a,,;
't'

~.

I>Oc. 9.

Sl

,!iile from the· mici.:.channel. The ' capstan1 was planted in 1S49,, fur neaving off' a vessel which had grounded in this channel· . '.· " 'rhe point I have mru,-ked as 'E. Range' was formerly a Pilot·'8 ~ange, and fifteen months since was about fifty yards from the beaC3h 'llhhe c~~nel '\\'ay; it is.. now 340 metres fro~ the beach. . , ·~ "You Will see from the above, that the pomt of St. Joseph has, for n:ve years, been working rapidly out to the southward, and as it encroaches on the channel, the opposite point of Mustang island wearll :8.'Wa.y with equal rapidity. All of the point of St. Joseph, from the .~Old Ra11;ge' to tlte spit !1-t the Narrows, is a lo~se, sandy ~at, which has een. entirely formed smce 1846, and on which vegetation has_ coint'tlenced. I found an unusual depth of water on the bar, nine and a ~a}f to ten feet, which may be accounted for by tbe strong and col\tinu:d southeast winds of this season; ordinarily there are frotn seven to eight· feet." A temporary tidal station was established in connexion with the soundings about Galveston, and observations made additional to those at the regular station, which has been left in charge of an observer. 'I'he latter station was transferred from Bolivar Point, for greater con·Venience, to the city of Galveston. ,Light·liouses, buoys, ~.-Appropriations were made at the. recent ~sl!!ion of Congress for light-houses in Galveston bay, and preliminary 8 Urveys have been required for their location. , ()My report upon the subj~ct, and that of. Lieutennnt <;'t>tnmandi~g ""raven, who surveyed the sites proposed, will be found m Append~ the erection of three light-houses, namely: on ·lopper's bar, Red Fish bar, and Half Moon shoal-the two latter ~<>nditional upon the approval of some competent engineer, doubts be~g e~pressed by Lieutenant Commanding Craven as to the stability ef lue foundation. (See sketch I, No. 2, and sub-sketches.) That officer tlu~,gests, also, the necessity of a buov off Dollar Point. l'he reconnaissance of Aransas i>ass indicates such frequent and tapid ~hif~ing of the bar and beach, that no ~ight-"house can b~ suita'bly t>1Uced with a prospect of permanence. rhe report of Lleutenant Coln:rnauding Craven (Af>pendix No. 39, and sketch I, No. ,3,) gi·iog ~:tails of the harbor and its changes, recommends a small hght~vessel -l'1 buoys on the bar. In the same connexion, objections are strongly \\tged against the present location of the light-vessel at Galveston. ·

e i ha~e recommended

''0'38 .

SllcTtt>Ns X

.AND

XI.-THE

ooAsT oF OALII<'ORNIA AND onBGON·..._

(Sketch I.)

fi .~ tny last annual report, showing the progress of the work in Oali· ,orma and Oregon up to October, 1860, th,e future course proposed for : survey of tlie western con.st was stated as follows : " To 'dete~m!ne die geographica;l position~ of the ,prominent P.oints, correcting; existing ai art~ by. them and by intermediate reconnaissances, and-usmg them .h points in the final survey ; to make such sUl'veys, of ha.rbors and mt· ~~es, of .sounds, of bays, and of J?Ortions of'the coast, as may·be hmmed1ately useful, taking up first the parts necessary for the 6

'82

'S. Doc. 8.
\

-establishment of light-houses, beacons, buoys, and·other aids to naviga ti.on, using the methods of the Coast Survey, and establishing such per"' .manent marks as will enable us. to bring together these detached pa.rtS .,into a complete survey of the coast; to publish the successive appro:ll" · imations which we make, so that, whenever we have better materials ·than those already existing for charts, theytinay be given to the navi" gatoC: without waiting for the best results which we can produce; In' '.this spirit, the reconnaissance of the coast now preparing for publication will be followed by a similar one south from Monterey; the sites for .the light-houses provided for in California, now under examination, will be reported upon ; the preliminary survey of Columbia river entrance, now reducing, will be published, and the examination carried up the river to Fort Vancouver, and up the Willamette; the portions of San . Francisco bay, the surveys of which are required by the Engineer de" partment and for light-house purposes, will be first taken up, to be fol. lowed by a complete survey of that and of the adjacent bays, after less known portions of the coast have been embraced in the work.'' In accordance with the principles thus laid down the survey has beeJJ . prosecuted, upon a scale increasing as new appropriations became avai)able, and with all the energy to be expected from the meritorious . officers enga.ged in it. Although it was late in this season before the operations could be disembarrassed of difficulties growing out of the want of funds and the peculiar circumstances of the country, yet the . beneficial effects of a more liberal expenditure are beginning to be re. alized; and I feel justified in pointing to the results, as a worthy and valuable contribution towards the knowledge of our Pacific coast and the safety of its navigation. If those results are not folly equal to out expectation, they have fallen short only through causes defying the con" trol of man-I allude to the lamented death of him from whom we ha.~ · received most, and from whom we hoped so much more; the wrec1' . a'1d necessary abandonment (on the coast of Pa.tagonia) of our steame~'i and the serious injury and detention of our sailing vessel south of SBP Francisco-disasters which have combined to leave our hydrograph)'r ~specially, behind our hopes and just anticipations. · · 13efore proceeding to an account of the work, I feel that a pause JS · due to honor the memory of him who was its able and ai·dent pioneer1 ·aµd whose name must hereafter be identified with the western coast e.9 its most distinguished and useful explorer-Lieutenant CommandiPB' Wm. P. McArthur, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey~ The tribute paid by his associates to his memory seems to deserve fl place in the records of the government and the work which he 80 fait4" folly served and honored; it is accordingly annexed in Appendi~ No. 40. . , I proceed to present the state of the work. It will be. remember~& .th&t, up to the date of my last annual report, our operations had ftit" .nished: 1st,, a. general ske~ch of ~he c~ast fr~m Mon~erey to the ColuIJ)' )>i1;t ri.ver, with hydrograph1~ notices, mcl?dmg d~tailed descriptions of. ,prl!Jctpal entrances, .a~d with a table of approxui:iate longitudes an~ ~utudes; 2d, a prehmmary s.urvey of the Columbia river, from its e~~ trance to a point above Astoria; 3d, a survey of Mare .Island straits, ~ lbe .bay of S11n l'ablo, interior to that of San :l!"rancisco; and 4th, rep9,;1'
1. ··
~

'

S . .Doc. 8.

88

·'-lpon light-houses for the bay of San Francisco, for Cape Disappointment, at the entrance of the Columbia river, and for New Dungenness ··QQ.d Cape Flattery· in Oregon. Since then, th~ l~adin~ object~ _in our plan.of oper~tions have been the exact determmat10n of the position of prominent pomts, and the sur· · yeya necessary for the establishment of lights and channel-marks most 1ntportant to· the present wantil of navigation. The astronomical and -topographical parties, and, as far as practicable, those engageq in tri· a.ngul,at1on and hydrography, have combined upon the same localities to effect the rapid completion of the purposes in view; and the two forlner parties have been for the most part feft together, for convenience Qf co-operation and ecooomy of transportation. 'fhe triangulation par· ty has united with its normal scheme not only the surveys requisite for the location of light-houses, but those of a general character called for by the joint commission intrusted with the selection of sites for military and naval establishments. The hydrographic party, crippled in its Operations by causes already cited, and which will be more fully dwelt !!Pon, has lent its aid to the others, and of late has been occupied in 1 tnportant independent examinations ; among which the continuance of the general reconnaissance to the southward of Monterey ranks first, an.d wiU be \>Ushed as rapidly as practicable. I proceed to state . ~lefty, reservmg details for their proper place, the general results of e season, which ure: }l ~· The exact determination (for which see.Appendix ~o. 41 bis) of , hOint C~nception,. the Hatteras of the ~estern coast, and its survey for t e l?cauon of a hght-house. The l~titude was c?mputed from astrollon_i1cal observations made at that pomt; t.he ~ong1t~de, from the com· fhar1son of observations there of moon culmumt1ons with others made on t .e Atlantic coast. The magnetic variation was also determined. The cPography exhibits the proper site for the light-house authorized by ,ongress, and embraces several miles of the neighboring shore. at~. Similar observations to fix the geographical position of Point Pinos, a' the entrance of Monterey; and a similar survey, indicating the best ituation for a light-house. (See Appendix No 42.) L 3· The astronomical observations made for determination of Punta 0 t} tna, in the bay of San Diego. 'fhe triangulation and topography of ~at hay, covering all that portion of it available for commeree; and so l' Uch of the hyclrography as is necessary for the entra11ce, and with })eference to location of a light-house. Also sailing directions for ap· 4roaeh !1nd entrance of the harbor; and a light-house report. (See ~tend1x No. 43.) . · of hhe topography embraces all that will be needed, afl:er complet;ion ,\ e hy~rography, for a harbor chnrt. . · ~ ~ ~e tnangulation extends from the False bay, on the north, to the th=Jc.~~~n. ~ine, on the south-thus connecting the coast s.urvey work w~th ~ m1t1al point" of the boundary survey, established by. M8JQr c,3l0 d_Y111United States topographical engineers ·. A sketc:h .of the i~lands p 6· Los Coronados" has also been furnished, givmg their ap· r~:imnate position. Ca · Ob;serva~ons at the entrance of Columbia d.ver for the position of · pe Disappointment,, with a topographical. survey of the cape, and a

. 84

S. Doc. 8.

report for the location of a light-house, by law provided for, on th~t point. (See Appendix No. 44.) · ·. ·. · Th~ fogs prev~ent upon this coast i~terpose a serio~s o.bstacle to· ob"' servat10ns for latitude, and to those for moon culmm11t1ons; but the ordinary transit observations for time are more easily attained; and, to make tbese available, a chronometer expedition, between San Francisco and the mouth of Columbia river, has been organized, and is 1n progress, for the determination of longitude. Its results are not yet reported. · · The topographical party has also extended its labors over Poirtt Adams, on the opposite shore of the Columbia and its vicinity; and ·.the hydrographical party has furnished views (eye-sketches) of the ontrance and approaches of Columbia river, representing the features of the coast. Ten iron can-buoys were shipped in January, 1851, and the remaining ~wo in February, to be delivered to .tlic collector of customs at Astona, Oregon. They have been received; and are to be placed under the direction of the coast survey party in the vicinity. o. Preliminary surveys of Humboldt Harbor and Trinidad bay, the former believed to be, in point of excellence, the tliird harbor on that ·coast, easy of access, and having twenty-one feet on the bar at loW water; the latter is reported as affording a good harbor of refuge, and, during half the year, a safe and convenient anchoraf7"e. A site for !l . Jight-house, provided for by law, to be placed at the first of these bays, has been examined and. reported upon. (See Appendix Nos. 67 and ·67 bis.) · . 6. Surveys in and about the bay of San Francisco, by combined ·irianEP1lation and to;Pographical parties,J>reliminary to the general triaJl· :gulat1on, and yet immediately directe to light-house an<l <lefensiv6 purposes. These embrace : · . A minute survey of Fort Point, at the entrance, and Alcatraz island, inside the bay; proposed sites for light-houses, (sec Appendix No· 46.) The survey of the southern shore of the bay, founded on a meas· ured base, and covering the ground pointed out by the joint commie· sion for examination with reference to fortification. A r~connoissanc6 of the Farallones (islands) for rectification of their position. A surve1. of )fare island, united with that of Mare island straits, and extendea "over the Straits of Carquines. This survey furnishes all the topograpbY needed for the information of the joint commission, with u vicw·to th6 location at Mare island of a navy yard. Approximate dctcrmina.tioJlS of latitude and longitude have been made on the southern shore of tb'e b~y. . . The more exact geodetic and hydrographic operations of the surve1 have been deferred in this harbor, (though their application at an earlY period is contemplated,) not through an under-estimate of its ultime.tO l.{llportance, but because existin&' charts yield better approximate kno,vl' edge of this !han of other principal portions of the coast. It has thet~' fore been estimated that the same amount of labor woulcl yield greatei' and more immediately beneficial results even to the commerce of S~ Francisco it.self, if dispersed through other fields, than if concentrat~ there. The charts of Captain Beechy, British navy, those of CapteiP Wilkes, of the United States Exploring Expedition, and, more recep.ttf1

s.

Doc:.

s.

85

·tli

~ss to be desired for this than for other leading points. . .. 7 · 'ro the above general account of operations it is to be added that. the hydrographic operations have recently been directed to. some revision. <>f the general coast reconnaissance between San Francisco and Mon-: ~ey; the extension of tha.t reconnaissance from Monterey southward b s been . entered upon; and the survey .of the bay of Monterey has een already executed. ·· i ,lla:ving received, during the last year, two interesting reports from ...,,1eutenant W. A. Bartlett, United States navy, assistant in the co~ ~rvey, referring respectively to the general character of the coast of }nlifornia. and to the commerce of Columbia river, I have embodied t.1ose reports in the Appendix, (Nos. 48 and 49.) ··· 4stront>mical and magnetic obscr.va.tions.-Assistant George Davidson is in charge of these. At the date of my la:.t annual report he was ell-'. ~ge<l at Point Conception, by far the most dangerous, and therefore the most important voint, in relerence to coast navigation. His obser".a~ons were for latitude, for longitude by the method of moon culmi· natlons, and' for magnetic variation and dip. The results have been <;ornputed and published . . From that point (after unavoidable delays arising from untoward 'C.IXcumstances, espeeiully the injury of the schooner Ewing in a gale, \Vhich compelled the return of the party to San Francisco) assistant bavidson .rroceeded to establish an observatory near Monterey, in conbe.:icion with the survey for a light-house site-from thence to San iego, and finally to Cape Disappointment, mouth of Columbia river; ~ursuing the same system of observations at each as at Point Concepti.011, 'fhe last advices left him at C_ape Disappointment, whence he Pro_posed to pass successively to the determination of Capes Orford 'l:,nd Mendocino, the two most prominent points between the Columbia ~lVer and San Francisco. · As soon as the advance of winter renders it necessary to leave the ~e!d in Oregon, assistant Davidson proposes to establish stations at {!ointe along the coast, and determine their differences of longitude by ~ansit observations, in connexion with transportation of chronometel'S. ~e success of this scheme would add San Pedro, Santa Barbru:a., 1.'rinidad and Humboldt bays to our list of points exactly determined. Assistant Davidson is aided by Mr. John Rockwell. ·· ?'1·iangulati-On, 4-t:·, (sketch I, No. 9.)-Assistnnt R. D. Cutts waa ~Ss1gned to this section to take charge of a double party for combined l?Urpo~s of triangulation ancl topogru.pby. The circumstances of the ~ork. pointed to his selection as peculiarly fitted for the superintendence mi:x;ed operations, versed as he is by experience in every brunch e di.,.ties of the coast survey. His operations were specially directed ~o the e~0;minations requisite for light-houses, and to those asked for .y thec1101nt commission on milital'y and naval establishments, (for cor~espon ence in relution to which, see Appendix No. 8,, in my report ot SoO.) .The general surveys for the purpose 111St mentioned have beeu ·~c~omphshed. The results for the season have furnishedtli 1st·. Tl~e survey.· of Alcatraz island and Fort Point, and a report on, em as sites for light-houses.· (Sketch I, No. 6, and Appendix. No. 46.)

~ose published by Captain Ringgold, United States navy,Jeave far

or

S. Doe. 3.
2d. The topography of the southern shore (includ'ing the islanr1 of · Yerba Buena) of the bay of San Francisco, from the vicinity of the· city to that of Point Lobos at the.. entrance-including the contemplated sites for fortifications-founded on a base measured on the beach of San Jose. (Sketch I, Nos. 6 and 9.) · 3d. An examination of the Farallones for approximate determinatioir and rectification of their position, (Sketch I, No. 6,)' and Sailing Directions, (Appendix No. 47.) 4th. A survey of Mare island, its straits~ the entrance and part of the Straits of Carquines, affording all the topo~aphy necessary for proposed establishment of a navy yard at Mare island. (Sketch I, Na. 2~)' 6th. Topography of the northern shore of the bay of San ~·rancisco, (sketch I, Nos. 6 and 9,) from Saucelito to Point Boneta. ' 6th. The triangulation (for which a preliminary base was measured) of the bay of San Diego, from False bay to the Mexican territory. · "The southernmost signal is on the boundary line, and about forty feec westward of the marble monument marking the initial point." Combined' with the topography of sub-assistant Harrison, this fwnishes a map of the bay, for wliich see sketch I, No. 7. Augustus S. Rodgers, esq., was the aid of assistant Cutts,. and waif . . 6pecially e~:plvyed on the topography. The stat1st1cs of the season's work show: 2 prehmmary bases measured, 68 signals erected, 37 stations occupied, 170 angles determined by 4,688 observations, 4 stations whose altitudes were determined by spirit-level, 20 stations whose altitudes were trigonometrically determined, 228 vertical angles measured, and 188 observations for azimuth~ " Topograplty.-Sub-assistant A. M. Ha1Tison was at the head of the topographical party longest in the field. For brevity's sake, I refrain from a recapitulation of his movements, which have been so far identical with those of the astronomical party, except that, at the last advices, he had passed to the topography of Point Adams, and the southern shore of Columbia river. Mr. Harrison's operations, as already stated, have been mainly directed to the surveys necessary for location of light-houses. His results are embodied in-first, a sketch of Point Conception and its vicinity, for several miles of shore-line, and a lighthouse report, (see sketch I, No. 3, and my report, Appendix No. 4!;~ second, a sketch of Point Pinos and shore-line of vicinity for several miles, and a light-house report for the ~ntrance to Monterey, (see sketch I, No. 4, and Appendix No. 42 ;) third, a topographical map (sketch I, No. 7) of the bay of San Diego, including Punta Loma, proposed as the site for a light-house, and La Playa, the port of San Diego, accompanied by a report descriptive of the bay, (Apl'endix No. 60,) and a report upon the location of a light-house, {Appendix No. 43;) fourth, the topography of Cape Disappointment, and three miles of the shor~ at the entrance of C~lumbia riyer, (sketch I, No. 10,) and a reP?rt m reference to the ere~t10n of a hsht-house at that poi~t, (Appendix No. 44,) also the topography of Pomt Adams the opposite cape. For local information and .description, I refer to these reports. · The topogr~phical ~perat10ns .of the part)'. under assistant Cutts are·· so bound up m execuuon, and m results, with those of the triangula:-

S·. Doc. 8.
tn,b'n, that, to avoid tedious repetition, I have described them under that
00~

.

Hydrography.-Up to the date ~f my last annual report, the late f:ieutenant Commanding Wm. P. McArthur, United States navy, as-· s1stant in the coast survey, was in charge, but survived a short time' <>nly. He was succeeded, December, 1850, in the command of the' Coast Survey schooner Ewing, by acting master J. H. Moore, United ~tates navy, who was relieved, May, 1851, by Lieutenant Command-. l.nDg James Alden, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey.' uring this period, the Ewing was severely injured in a gale, and foi: llOme time under repair. Lieutenant Commandinj! Alden, delayed by the difficulty of· ship-' }ling hands at the then prices of California, which far transcend all Atlantic ideas, set out, about .the middle of June, for a preliminary !!Ur\rey, which occupied about two months, of Humboldt and Trinidad ~ays. For his maps, see sketch I, Nos; 8 and 5. His general description of the character of those bays, I quote as follows: 11 Trinidad bay is a very convenient and safe anchorage during six hlonths in the year, and will be found, by vessels that have suffered from the strong head (northerly) winds that prevail along this coast, a ~~tnfortable harbor of refuge. Humboldt bay is, I think, the third bar"' 1JOr on this coast; it is sixteen miles long, and from three-quarters to four or five miles wide; the entrance between the breakers is nearly straight, but rather along the coast; it is about a mile long, and two hundred metres wide between the eighteen-feet curves on either side, "1ith twentrone feet at low water on the bar. It is perfectly accessible except m very heavy weather, when the sea breuks entirely across the entrance." Moro detailed information upon these harbors, and that of San Diego,' t.nd saiting directions for the latter, have been published, and will be ound in the Appendix, (Nos. 46 and 60.) · 'l"he hydrography of the entrance and part of the bay of San Diego ~given on the harbor map (sketch I, No. 7) already referred to under · ··ue head of topography. Lieutenant Commanding Alden reports it as highly necessary to the bafety of navigation in the harbor of San Francisco, that buoys should .e placed on the Invincible· and Blossom (sunken) rocks; and the e:x:p~nditnre is acco1:dingly recommended. (For correspondence on the. llUbJect see Appendix No. 62.) An examination has been made of the bay of Monterey, which is ~ported as completed, although the results have not yet been receive~. he schooner Ewing was detached for this duty · . ~ieutenant Commanding Alden, in the steamer Quickstep, tempo;ar1ly chartered for the purposes of the coast survey, has been engaged 1 n a. re~xamination of the coast between San Francisco and Monterey; after concluding which, he has entered upon a continuance of the general ~oast reconnaissance from Monterey to our southern boundary.. Ile will also prosecute, during this winter, the hydrogra.phy of the bay of. San Francisco, · · The draugbtsmau, 1 Mr. McMurtrie, of the hydrographic party, de-,

qtched for the .purpose, has fl,lrnished drawings (eye-sketches) of the entrance to Columbia river and of the nei$hboring coast. . The projected hydrographic operations in Oregon having been preyented b.y the loss of the steamer Jefferson, it is proposed to print the ·map of Columbia river entrapce, and to sepd copies to the hydrogrµphic party on the western coast, to be corrected. there if the changes in th~ ijOuth channel are found to be of importance, and then to be published. $ailing directions for entering that river will be found in the Appendix, No. 61. · ~t _is my Eainful dut::y to record the death of Passe~ Midshipman Wilham De Koven, Umted States navy, an offi,cer of lugh chara~ter, who had be.en but a short time attached to the coast survey. The ~tter of his commander, repo1ting his decease, .is given in Appenq~ No. 63. For the judicious execution of the hydrography on this coast a steamyessel is essential. Hence the loss of the steamer Jefferson is severely felt. That vessel was so !!trained and dismantled by a gale off th~ coast of Patagonia, (proverbial for the severity of its storms,) that ~though, by God's mercy ~d by the well-directed exertions of her commander and.crew, sbe was enabled to reach Port Desire in safety, i,t was necessary to abandon her there, since, even if re.pairs had been practicable, no facilities were accessible. In the Appendix {No. 64), will be found a report of the circumstances, and evidence that the yessel had been, after proper examination, approved as sea-worthy; had been properly fitted and provid.ed; was comman<le? and worked with all t)le judgment and energy suitable to the occasion ; and was finally abandoned through inevitable necessity. Her disastrous fate seems to be one of those cases in which the power of the elements defies all the efforts of human art apd skill. · · Lieutenant Commanding F. K. Murray, United States navy, was the commander of the Jefferson, and, before abandoning her, made ·satistft.ctory arrangements for saving and bringing home her boilers and machinery. . I take pleasure in quoti11g from a letter of Lieutenant Con;imanding l!urray the following mention of the zealous and disinterested assistance r,.fforded to himself~ his officers and crew, by a stranger-the recital of whose conduct will insure him the admiration of every generous mind: , "It gives me pleasure to mention to you the noble conduct towards of Mr. Henry Powell, the proprietor of the suano settlement-the gen~rous sympathy, hospitality and friendly aid h~ extended to us aurmg o~r protracted stay upon the coast of Patagonia. We soon became ent1re1y dependent upon him for provisions, and these were fur:uished with.his characteristic liberality. For many of them be would receive nothmg; and ~or those furnished the ~overnment, charged nothin~ 'beyond the pnces pa1~ .for them by himself. He scorned to take adyantage of our n~cessitres, and put himself and men upon sho.i;t allowance that we rmgbt not .wa~t· This gentleman, endeared to all on 'board the Jefferson by his kindness, as well as by his social worth, iEJ a: native of Ireland." · ·: The· s~e~mer Corwin has been built for the coast survey out of the appropriation for the western coast; but the Jefferson was sent in her

us

S. Doc. 3;
place to save .time, and the Corwin retained for· the eastern coast. It will now be necessary to send the latter to replace the lost vessel in the Pacific, and the Treasury De.Partment has directed her to be fitted out. ller withdrawal will be a serious loss to the eastern hydrography, and . the interests of that work will require· her to be replaced.
OFFICE WORK.

Every department of the office has, under the able supervision of Brevet Major I. I. Stevens, of the corps of engineers, continued to improve, and has filled the full measure required by the increasing number, amount, and variety of results retm:ned by the field-work of the Coast. For the first time every section under survey ho.s reached that stel? when results are steadily returned and require provision for publi~at1on.

The progress of the work has rendered prncticable arrangements for prompt publication, which, when it was less developed and executed on a smaller scale, were not possible. It is due to Major Stevens to acknowledge the promptness which is secured in the publication of ~esults, and the maturing of a system by which sketches and prelimi,P:ary charts are made in every case to precede the more finished work, furnishing valuable results to the navigator as. soon as obtained by the surveyor. The rapid execution of the engraved charts of the western coast i:econnaissance is a proof of the perfection of this orgaQizntion and of ~he zeal of those who administer it. Three well-executed sheets of reconnaissance were engraved and ready for publication within twenty wo1·k!11g days after the beginning of the en~ru.ving. Preparations of a si.milar kind have been made to execute tile charts of the southern pPrl\on Qf the smµe coast as soon as received, so that publications may be furnished early in the new year. The present report contains no les!) than three charts and thirty preliminary sketches, of unmediate utility to na.vi~ators-the result generally of the work of the past surveying yoar. It is, of course, understood that these latter do not pretend to be finished charts, but simply what their titles indicate-sK.etches, to be filli;!d up and perfected as the work advances. 'l'he divisions of the office-work a1·e as follows: 1. Computing; ~; Drawing; 3. Engraving; 4. Electrotyping; 6. Printing; 6. Pub111~shing,. distribution, and sale; 7. Instrument making;, S. Archives aµd brary. . · · The computing, dra,wing, engraving, and instrument making are ea.en · Under the charge of an assistant, immediately responsible to the assista~t in churge of the office, n.nd directing, under his supervision, the de, tails o( e11;ch br.anch ; the g~neral direction, ns a branch of the entire "".'Ork,, restmg with the superintendent. · . MaJor. Stevens acknowledges, in his report, in complimen~ary terms, ,~he services of assistant Hilgurd, in charge of the computm~ <lcparttnent; of Lieutenant Richard H. Rush, United States army, m cliurge ?f the drawing depg.rtment; of Joseph Saxton, esq., in charge of the ~~strument ~aking; and of Lieutena.nt E. B. ~unt1 of the corps of engJ.neers1 as hts general assistant, now temporanly m charge of the en·

90;

S. Doc. 3,.

graving. Lieutenant A~ A. Gibson, United States army, is also referred· to in terms of warm commendation, tor valuable assistance in the miscellaneous duties of the office. The gene:aI result is thus referred to in M~jor Stevens' annual re-' port: "It gives me pleasure to report that during the past year there has been a visible improvement of the office in all its branches, and it is m'1 pleasure and duty to bear unqualified testimony to the zeal and efficiency of the several assistants in charge of the departments, and of the numerous employes under them. Each man has shown an honest purpose to <lo his duty; and I have been much oftener obliged to moderate exertion, than to rebuke indifference and neglect. These latter cases have been rare; and I speak advisedly when I sa.y, I know of no person in the office, from assistant to laborer, who is not attentive and faithful in the discharge of his duties. "It is fortunate that such has been the case; for the duties of the office have increased more rapidly than suitable assistance ·could be procured. Work for the first time has been devolved upon every branch of the office from each section of the survey ; and the amount of work has not been small, growing out of a class of duties that was, by Congress, at its last session, assigned to the survey in connexion with the location oflights. No less than twelve engraved plates have resulted, · the present year, from this entirely new class of duties; a fact in itself significant both of the amount of duty and the efficiency of the survey, both in the field and office. "To, Sam.uel Hein, esq., the general disbursing agent, I am under obligations for advice both in general and in special matters, which he is so well qualified to give from his great familiarity with the past history and the present condition of the work, and from his entire devotion to its best interests." The records of the computing department have been systematized and the registers improved during the past year. The list of geographical positions, 3,240 in number, prepared for publication in a preliminary shape, is the best evidence of the zeal and ability of the ~entlemen engaged in this part of the work. In the .h.ydrowaphic porti?n of the wor,k:, reports have been made on the cond1t1on of the observations; the best methods of keeping, registering, and arranging them; and on the condition of the reductions; and have formed the basis of action in these matters. The subject of current charts has been studied, and many tidal re· ductions have been made. The arrangements in the drawing department have been improved by judicious arrangem.ents and distribution of the duties, more in accordance 'Yith the sp~ci~ talent of the draughtsmen, in the division of the work, in the application of the system of contract, or of remunera· tion proportioned to the time of working, to such parts of it as admit of these ~rrangements. The con.dition of the depa:tment is represented ~Y ,MaJor Stevens as very efficient, and the exert10ns of all employed m 1t ii.re commended. "Great exertions have been required to increase the force in this import~nt department, (engraving,) and to classify their duties to meet the requll'eme11ts of the survey.

s. Doc. s. ·.
'''There are now eighteen engravers-five employed on a salary, one on a per diem, nine on contract, and th.ree apprentices. Much of the Work can best be done by contract; all the letterin~ and figures,.views, sands, swamps, and even hills. Only one letterer is now employed on a salary ; and to him is assigned the most difficult work, as titles and general lettering. ''The contract system has generally given satisfaction." Major. Stevens speaks favorably of the improvement made by the younger lnembers of this department, and of the zeal and fidelity of all. It is due to the efficiency of the drawing and engraving departments th~t nearly the whole work of the past year is presented in sketches, \V1th this report, to Congress. M njor Stevens observes: "Our nnange· lllents now are such that the work, as fast as it comes in, can be given to the public in preliminary sketches. Its effect will be great, both ns an incentive to parties in the field, who see ut once the fruits of their labor, and to the office force, in affordin~ a better opportunity to train , the younger members and prepare them for the finished charts. These d~~tches will, in most cases, be the finished charts, simply by the ad· lt1on of the ornamental work. 11 So the system of .Preliminary sketches and finished charts will ac· tually hasten the pubhcntion of the latter, besides being the best system ~ ~pply, men having different degrees of skill; all, however, gradually' r1s1ng to the highest excellence. . "'l'he electrotyping department has improved so greatly the past year ln all its arrangements and processes, that at my request its cnief, Mr. :M:athiot, has made a general report on the suqject of electrotyping, (Appendix No. 65,) which I respectfully commend to your consideration. · "The advances which have been made through the agency of the Con.st Survey have scarcely been equalled in the history of any art. l'iot a single failure has yet occurred in Mr. Mathiot's process. A single plate has again been reproduced from the junction of plates with Complete success. 11 The time for reproducing a plate hns been greatly abridged. 'rime hus been saved, and a greater certainty given to the process, by a beating apr,aratus, which is described in Mr. Mathiot's paper, and 'Which is exhibited on the sketch accompanying his re[lort. The w:ork 0 this department the past year is not to be estimated by the number 0 1 plates made-16, all that were required by the wants of the surveybut by the grea.t improvements that have been introduced-improve· ients necessary to meet the wants of the department the ensuing year. 'he sale of maps will, undoubtedly, soon be greatly extended. " The time has come to call into action agencies for special sale of ~oast Survey maps. They should be carried to each man's door having a~ interest in commerce, nn\rigation, geography, and science. · Mr. ~ath1ot can with certainty, in the present state of the art, reproduce ~s first. basso in eight, and every subsequent basso in four, dn.ys. hese times may be reduced to six and three days. A plp.te Has actually ~ee~ ma~e the yast year, a1:d returned to the en~avmg depart· ltle~t, m s1xty·frve hours from the ume the alto was sent to the electrotyp1ng rooms. Certainly in fifty days the plates can be made for ll>,OOO sheets of any Coast Survey map, however large and elaborate

!

s~
~perations

Doc.

a.

it ll)ay be: this shows the great practical utility of .the process in the
of the coast survey. "Many of the plates will require three to four years' work of an engraver, 'lind will cost from three to six thousand dollars. By the electrotyping process we can reproduce them in eight days, and at a comparatively trifling expense of some two hundred dollars." A hydraulic press for map printing, intended to remedy the distortion which is now unavoidably produced, in a greater or less degree, by the copper-plate printin~ press, has been devised by Mr. Saxton, and is now in the course of construction under his direction. · The results obtained in the instrument shop, both in reference to the quality and economy, are very encouraging. The arrµ,ngement of the archives has been much improved during the past year, in reference to registering, to completeness of detail in tpem when returned, and to facility of reforence. Major Stevens again calls attention to the necessity for improved accommodations for the office of the survey. He remarks: "I again beg leave to call your attention not only to the pressing necessity of more.extended accommodations for the safe-keeping of the archives, and for a probable increase in the business of electrotyping, printing, publishing, and sales, but to the 1:1nfitness of the present quarters for the purposes of drawing and engraving. "I would recommend a suitable building as calculated to give a bet· t~r tone to the whole establishment; making supervision more effective, giving better facilities for the furtherance of work, and abridging many expenses in the way of heating the rooms, and of repairs and attendance." The following is a detailed account of the work done in the several branches, ~cording to each of the officers engaged the credit for the · results which he .has forwarded: 1. CoMPUTING.-The computing departmel)t has been under the charge of assistant J.E. Hilgard. Under his direction, the computations have kept up with the· field-work sent to the office; the final reduction of the work of former years has made some pro~ress; and the preparation of astronomical and geodetic results for publication has been. brought to a state of forwardness. In" Mr. Hilgard's absence his place has been ably supplied by Charles. N. Schott, csq. Mr. Hil~ard, in his report, states that, ii the project of work prepared at the beginn~ng of the {last year has been adliered to as nearly as cir-. cumstances wquld pernut. The experience of the pas( will enable me to present a project for the ensuing year more defimte in its provisions, and covering more fully the ground to be occupied." Eugene Nulty, esq., has made the second computation of the latitude observations at Soper's, Hill's, and W filhb's stations, Section III; with· the zenith telescope, at east base Edisto island, Section V ; at Point Conception and Point Pinos, Section X, with the zenith telescope; at Agamenticus, Section I,_ with the _prime vertical transit; and azimuth 01>11ervatlons at Breach mlet, Section V. : Assistant Th. W. Werner has computed the secondary triangulation Qf assistant Boutelle, in Massachusetts and Maine, 1850; the seconda;r:y triangulation of assistant Farley on the seacoast of :Maryland and

,S. Doc. 8.

98

ti.

Virginia, 1850; that of assistant Hilgard ne1u Key West, .1851; a~1d that·bf assistant Cutts in San Diego, 1851. He has also made the second computation of the latitude of Seaton station ; has reduced prime vertical transits, observed at Nantucket, from 1846 to 1849; and has computed the azimuth observations ut San Diego. Mr. Werner, having suffered from sickness and domestic o.ffiiction, has not been quite equal to the computations of the current geodetic work, some of \V.hich were made in the office. Charles Schott, esq., has been chiefly engaged in the final reduction of the work of former years; and in. the revision oflatitude computations. l:le has reduced, by the method of least squares, the horizontal angles at thirty-four stations of the main triangulation in Sections 11 and III, and eatablishcd the conditional equations of that work to 1850. He has Verified und in part recomputed the computations of latitude at' Seqto .n station, Point Conception, Soper's, Hill's, nnd Mount IndeRendence. lte has computed tl1e azimuths observed ut Soper's and Hills stations, , Section Ill; the secondary triangulation south of Cape Hatteras, 1861; and the latitude observations at San Diego. He has also prepared a , report on terrestrial refraction, and has made some com:eutations of i:nugnetic observationi;1. Mr. Schott has also devoted much time and :rendered much valuable assistance in matters pertai11ing to hydrography, which will be mforred to under its appropriate head. He has great ar.titude for scientific investigation, whether eertuining to nstronomica , magnetic, geodetic or hydro$'raphicul subjects, and his zeal and industry are folly equal to his abihty. ' Dr. G. Rumpff has been engaged in completing and perfecting tho regiSter of geogrnphical positions, and preparing them for publication. Ife has also made a preliminary reduct10n of the primary triangulation, Section I, from 18413 to 1850; and the reduction of the conditionnl ·~quation of the primary triangulation in Section III, north of Kent .isfand base; has made the secon<l computations of the trian$ulation of 'the Salem llUrbor; of assistant Williams' triangulations m 'l'cxas, .1861; of azimuth observations at Marriott's, Section Ill; and of latitude .observations at Nantucket, in 1845 and 1846; and has revised the computations of the latitude of Shcllbunk, Section IV, and cast base, Sectio\l V. Mr. Rumpff, throughout the year, has shown his customary diligence and exactness as a computer. Mr. H. Ginder reported at the office in June, and has been chiefly . engage<l on computations of verification and adjustment, required in ·'the ·preparation of geogmphicnl positions fur publication. He is now , (~ovember) relieved from duty in the computing department, and assigned to the pltrty of Mr. Gerdes, as aid. Mr. M. H. Ober has made miscellaneous' computations, under the im'. mediate direction of Mr. Hilgard ; nnd hns computed the lo.titude of Nantucket from zenith distances, observed from 1846 to 1849. Mr. Ober has suffered from ill heult~ during the greater portion of t~1e year. . Mr. Keber has been on duty m the ~omputing depar.unent smce the ll>th. of October, and has made himself generally us~ful ·. . . Mr. Fornaro also rendered service for a: short pert~d m the conver~ion of ~etre distances into yards and miles for· 'the list of geograph.1cal pos1t1ons.

I'-

· S. Doc. 8.
Mr. Main joined the computing department on the 1st of November and from hi!! high,~e,~~onials ancl,the evidemce of.ability he has ulr~9,y shown, gives proro1se of futul'e usefulness. Mr. Hoover, one of the eleves of the Survey, has been employed in assisting Mr. Hilga.rd in the records, and in the simple computation, and has given entire satisfaction in the discharge of his duty. The whole number of pages copied since November, 1860, is about 10,000, by an average of three copyists. · Hydrography.-Mr. Schott has devoted a considerable ~rtion of his ~ time to making reports and computations in connexion wit~ the hydro- · graphy. Besiaes preparing several tide-tables for the published charts, he has made elaborate reports on the following subjects: on a thorough examination of the hydrographic work in the archives, including tides, currents, soundings, diagrams, and their registering, reducing, duplicatitfg, arran$'ing and binding; on directions for observing and reducing tides; on tides and currents in Hell Gate, and on the coast of New York and New J crsey; and on a method of representing currents. Besides the above, a number of reports on hydrographic matters, of less iniportance, have been sent in. Lieutenants A. S. Baldwin and Wm. B. Whiting, and Passed Midshipman S. Nicholson, United States navy, and sub-assistant A. S. Wadsworth, and Mr. Jardella, have also been employed in tidal reductions. 2. DRAWING.-Since the 26th March, 1861, Lieutenant R.H. Rush, United States army, and assistant in the coast survey, has been in the permanent charge of this department. Lieutenant A. A. Gibson, United ·States army, and assistant in the coast survey, assigned to the duty of taking views for the published charts, has prepared the sketches for the list of geographical p~sitions for Sections I~ II, and J II, brought up the back work on the dta~ram maps of Sections I, IV, and VIII, drawn the sketches accompanymg the report on electrotyping, prepared titles, and arranged notes for the engraving department, and otherwise rendered important service in the drawin~ departm':'Jnt. . Assistant W. M. C. Fairfax was occupied from the. lst of November, 1860, to the end of January, 1861, in the charge of the engraving department. Since then he has rendered invaluable assistance in the examination and elucidation of difficulties in the reduction of maps ·and charts. He hM executed two sheets of topographical s.Pecimens, made a new scale of shades, and a partial report on the subject of lettering, all for the use of. the office. He has also executed the ptfocipal work of the progress maps. Assistant M. J. McClery continued in charge of the drawing depart.ment up to the 26th March, 1861, since which time he has been en~:f~d principally upon the reduction of Chesapeake bay, No. scale He has also been engaged upon maps showing the progress of · 0 .the survey, in the verification of drawing, and in other miscclianeous matters. Assistants Fairfax and McCiery .are especially commended for their great skill an<l intelligence, and for their conscientious and rigid discharge of duty. They are exemplars, both as artists and as men, in the · department. Mr. W elsb has been engagt'd nearly the whole time in the red~ction

11,

He bus also executed a part of the. topography of Charleston harbor; made,a.dditions to the map of Long Island sound, and several excellent tracings. Mr. Mahon was occupied upon the reduction of the topography of Mobile bay No. II, which he finisi1ed in June. Since then he has been .at work upon the reduction of the topography of Salem harbor. Mr. Luce has .finished the topography of Albemarle sound, scale :n-!tnr, and .bas' executed the pri11cipal part of the hydrof:lmphy. He ha.s n:lsp rrin'.de various right-line drawings, tracings, pr0Ject1ons, and sketches for the annual report. Mr. Ricketts has been engaged upon the hydrography of Mobile bay ':Nos. I and II, (No. II being finished,) hydrogra.phy of i<.ey West, scale and has finished the hydrography of the harbors of Huntingdon, Black Rock, Captain's island, East and West, Huit llnd City islands, 011wkin's island, and Sheffield island; has reduced the hydrography of the vicinity of the city of Savannah, and made an entirely new re-··. ,duction of Nantucket shoals, and much other ·miscellaneous hydrog· raphy. · Mr. Boschke has completed the topogra~hy of Key West, scale l"ilfinr, mouth of Columbia river, scale Tinnnr and :rnioirr and has made many projects, projections for plane-table nnd hydrographic parties, projections on copper, tracings, and annual report sketches. Mr. Tennent was transforred to the engraving dep11rtment in Janu· ary, an<l previous to that time had been at work upon register maps, projections, &c. Mr. Lambert has finished the topography of Wellfleet har.bor, Hart and City islands, and Richmond island ; and has been at work on the .topography of Chesapeake hay No. I, and other miscellaneous matter· . B:e has also executed some beautiful specimens of topography for use of the office. He has finished the New York current chart, nnd Charleston harbor chart, scale He left the survey on the 30th September. Mr. Fornaro has executed the topography of Galveston city and har· bor, and has been engaged upon the topography of Beaufort harbor, tracings, prqjections, and annual report sketches. He hu.s suffered much from sickness for the last three months. This estimable gentleman died on the 4th November, after a Unger.. ing illness of three months. He was a major of topographical engi· neers in the Swiss service; suffbred much from ill health since his arrival in this country, and departed with the esteem and regrets of all who knew him. , · Mr. I1'orsyth joined the office in December, 1860, and was occupied upon register maps, history maps, and tracings, until May, 1851, when he left the ofiice. , Mr. Walker joined the office in December, 1850, and was occupied upon register maps and projects until May, when he joined a planetable party in the field. He was again attached to the office 111 No. vember. . Mr. ~ownse.nd joineg the office in August, and has rendered valua. ble assistance in making the progress maps. On the 15th October he · Wf!,8 compelled to resign from ill hea~th. ..

S. Doc. 8. 'Of Boston harbor, scale ntiJ-o, w hie h is now finished.

.mn,

ni:-m·

s~

Doc. S.

Mr. Hergesheitrter joined the office on the 1st September, 1851, and bas already proved' a valuable addition to the department. l\f r. Hebst has executed several pieces of work on contract, and in a highly creditable manner:· .. , Mr. Meyer, l\lr. Neidlescioky, Mr. De. Ahna, and Mr. Gritzner, have severally been emJ;>loyed for a fow weeks .in execution of various . ·' tracings and reductio'ns upon contract. · 3. }~NGRAVING.-This department was under the charge of assistant W~ M. C. Fairfax till the close of January, when, at his owh'tequest, he was transferred to the drawing department. From that time till October it was under my direction, J. c; Tennent, esq., assisting me in matters of detail, since which time it has been under the charge 6f Lieutenant E. B. Hunt, corps of engineers and assistant in coast survey. :A..-The engraving of the following finished maps has been completed: 1. South side of Long Island, No. 1, by J. Knight, H'. Knight, and 0. A. Lawson; 2. Hart and City islands and Sachem's Head, by F. Dankworth, W. S'mith, H. Knight, R. T. Knight, and J. V. N. Throop ; 3. Hell Gate, by G. McCoy, F. Dankworth, and' J. Knight·; a:t. Mobile entrance, (original and electrotype,) by R. T. Knight, J, Knight, F. Dankworth, and W. Smith; 6. Richmond's Island harbor, (bein$ the preliminary sketch filled in with topography 1) by Wm. Smith, F. Dankwort:h, J. V. N. Throop, G. McCoy, and S. Siebert. B.-The engraving of the following sketches and r.reliminary charts has been completed: l"-3. Reconnaissance chart, (McArthur,) western coast, by S. Siebert, J. V. N. Throop, W. Smith, J. Knight, R. 'l:. Knight, 0. A. Lawson, E. F. Woodward, G. McCoy, A. Rolle, and F. Dankworth; 4. Richmond's Island harbor, by Wm. Smith and J. Y.. N. Throop; 6. Nantucket shoals, by J. V. N. 'fhrooe, O. A. Lawson, J. Knight, and R. 'I'. Knight; 6-8. Second edition (McArthur) western coast,, by G. McCoy; 9. Hatteras inlet, (res?rvey?) by W. Smith, R. ~· Kmg~t, and J. V. N. Throop; 10~14. !live drngram maps of Cat island tides, by J. V. N. Throop, R. 'I. Kmght, T. D. Donohoo, H. Knight, and T. H. Oehlschlager; 16. Reconnaissance of Mosquito inlet, by G. ~IcCoy, W. Smith, and T. D. Donoh~o, (per contr~ct); 16. Reconnaissance of Horn Island pass, by H. ,Kmght, R. T. Kmgbt, and T. D. Donohoo; 17. Point Conception, by H. Knight, W. Smith, J. V. -N. Thr(')op, and T. H. Oehlschlager; 18. Point Pinos and Bay of Monterey, by H. Knight, R. 'I'. Knight, J. V. N. Throop, and H. C. Evens; 19. Mare Island straits, by W. Smith, J. V. N. Throop, G. McCoy, W. H. Dou~al, H. Knight, R. T. Knight, and T. D. Donohoo; 20. Current chart of Boston harbor, by H. Knight and IL Kni$ht; 21. Reconnai&sanceof Cedar keys, by J. V. N. Throop, R. T. Knight, and H. Knight;· 22. Reconnaissance of.the Delta of the Mississippi, by W. Smith, E. F, Wood.ward, G. McCoy, an?~· V. N. 'fhroo~, (per contract;) 23. Reconnaissance of PasR Christian, by H. Kmght, J. V. N. Throop, Smith,'!'. D. Donohoo,·and H. C. Evens; 24. Galveston bay, by H. Knight, J. V. N. Throop, R. T. Knight,·and ·r. D. Donohoo; 26. Ararts.as Pass, by J. V. N. Throop, R. T. Knight, and T. H. Oehlschlager; ·t&~'.'rrinidad bay, by G .. M~Coy, W. H. Dougal, and J. V. N. TJiroop; 211, ·IBntrance of Columbia river, '?Y E. F. Woodward; 28. Cape Han.. cock, by G. McCoy and Wm. ·Snnth; 29. Holmes' Hole, by J. Acker~

w.

S. Doc. 3.
man; 30-36. Seven maps of progress and geographical positions for
a.nnnal report. , C.-'l'he engraving of the following finished maps has been continued: l. General coast chart, by F. Dank.worth, O. A. Lawson, G. McCoy. an~ J. Knight; 2. No. 1, Long Island sound, by J. Knight, A. Rolle. Ob· A. Lawson, G. McCoy, and S. Siebert; 3. No. 1, Chesapeake bay, Y 0. A. Lawson ond F. Dank.worth; 4. Patapsco river, by O. A. Lawson and F. Dank.worth; 6. No. 2, south side of Long Island, by. Lawson and .J. Knight; 6. No. 1, eastern series, by Siebert, .,, V. N. Throop, and J. Knight; 7. Boston harbor, by A. Rolle, G. ~cCoy, H. M. Knight, and J. Knight; 8. Muskeget channel, by F. ,uunkworth, and E. F. Woodward. D.-'rhe engraving of the following finished maps hu.s been coml!:nenced: j). Clml'leston harbor, by E. F. Woodward, F. Dank.worth, S. 'r. Pettit, and G. McCoy; 10. Ke,v West, by E. F. Woodward, W. S?ihh, F. Dank.worth, and H. M. Kmght; 11. Connecticut river, by S. Siebert, G. McCoy, W. Smith, W. H. Dougal', and '!'. D. Donohoo;, 12, 13. Nos. 1 and 2, Mobile bay, by F. Dankworth. · E.-'l'he engraving of the following sketches and preliminary charts has been commen..:ed: 1. Sea,coast of Delaware and Maryland, (plate enlarged by electrotyping additional engraving work of hy<lrogrnphic. ~arties,) by W. Smith uncl J. Knight; 2. Beaufort harbor, by S. Siebert, b. V. N. Throop, H. l\f. Knight and ll. T. Knight; 3. Humboldt bay, Y W. Smith,'£, D. Donohoo, and H. C. Evans; 4. Harbor of Key 'West, by A. Rolle, W. Smith, E. F. 'Woodward, R. T. Knight, H. l\f. !\.night, and D. Donohoo; f>, Entrance of the Chesapeake, by S. Stull; 6. He-engrnving of Nantucket shoals, by J. II. Goldthwait; 7, Harbor of Sun Diego, by E. Yeager and 'l'. D. Donohoo; 8. Entrance of San Francisco, by S. Siebert, E. F. Woodward, and J. V. N. ~hroop; 9. Savannah river, vicinity of Savannah, by J. V. N. 'l'hroop, "'1-· M. Knight, H. Oehlschlager, 'l'. Donohoo, u.nd H. C. Evans; ~O, Savannah entrance, by J. V. N. Throop and E. Ycager; 11. Mobile ay, by H. M. Knight, R. '!'.Knight, J. V. N. Throop, 1111d H. C. Evans; 12. Bull's bay, (re-engraving,) by J. V. N. Throop, and 'l'. Donohoo; Entrance of Columbia river, by E. F. Woodward, W. Smith, J. · N. Throop, and G. McCoy; 14-lG. New edition of Mc Arthur's ~~f\lt of the western coast, by G. McCoy and W. Smith; 17. Point. ~1nos 1 (view,) by S. V. Hunt; 1~. View of the mouth of the Colu~bia rtv~r! by G. McCoy; 19-2G. Eight maps of progress and geogrn.plucal Pos1t1ons. ELiw1·noTYPING..,-Mr. Matbiot has made, by the electrotyping process, during the past year, lG engraved plates, nll of which h11ve been tsed by the printer. 1. Edgartown harbor; 2. New London; 3. New. ork (second electrotype copy;) 4, 6, G. Sheets Nos. 1, 2, 3, l\IcArtl~ur's chart of the western coast; 7. Sheet No. 2, McArthur's chart of the restern coast (second electrotype copy;) No. 2, south si~le ~ong: sland, (second electrotype copy;) 9. Mouth of the Columlnu. nver.; 1 , 0, Seac?ast of Delaware and l\fo1·ylnnd, (greatly enlarged;) 11, 12. ~wo c~p1es of Hart an<l" ~ity islands,.an<l Su.chem) Head; .13· .S~etcb.. ~· Sect10n .IX; 14· .Mobile entrance.~; 15, !G. Third u.nd fourtl1 41~, otype copies of New Yodc. . , . " i.. 7

?·A.

S.

·r.

·r.

ia.

s.

98

S. Doc. 3.

Mr. Mathiot has likewise furnished the engraving department 57 blank :rlates for engraving; inspected all the copper-plates purchased dming the year; made eighteen metre scales hy the electrotyping process; applied forty-two days' work, of ten hours each, to repairing ma8netic and electric apparatus for the party employed in determining longitudes by the magnetic telegraph, and in partly making metallic thermometers for deep-sea temperatures. These thermometers are about two-thirds done, and have been suspended for want of material to complete them. Two weeks have been occupied in removing the electrotype apparatus to the building now occupied by it, and about twenty days in repairing derangements occasioned by the removal. Much time has also been occupied in renovations, changes, and the introduction of.ff:n.. proved processes, as has been previously adverted to. , PnINTlNG.-Since the 1st of November, 1850, there have been printed from Delaware bay and river (electrotype plate No. 1) 2,202 sheets, (this map consists of three sheets;) from the western part of the southern coast of Long Island, (electrotype No. 2,) 1,274 copies; from the small map of the bay and harbor of New York, (electrotype No. 2,) 650; No. 3, 600; No. 4, 600 copies ; from the large map of New York bay and harbor, (original plates,) 300 sheets, (this map consists of six sheets); from the harbors of Cat and Ship islands, (electrotype No. 1,) 620 copies; from the western coast reconnaissance, (original plates,) 1,842 sheets; (electrotype No. 1,) 4,728 sheets, (this map consi$tS of three sheets); from Pasquotank river, (electrotype No. 1,) 333 copies; from Caw kins and Sheffield islands, (electrotype No. 1,) 290 copies; from Hyannis harbor, (electrotype No. l,) 200 copies; from Hart and City islands and Sachem's Head harbor, (electrotype No. 2,) 1,207 copies; from preliminary sketch of Richmond's island, (original plate,) 100 copies; from harbor of New London, (electrotype No. 2) 260 copies; from Oyster or Syosset bay, (electrotype No. 1,) 500. copies; from Huntingdon buy, (electrotype No. 1,) oOO copies; making in all 16,0!J6 sheets. Besides these, there have been printecl 891 copies. from the annual sketch plates; 382 from Davis' New South shoal; 260 from the sea· coast of Delaware and Maryland; 42G from Hatteras shoals; 230 from Hatteras inlet; 30 from St. Andrew's shoals; 60 from Beaufort harbor; 375 from Cape Canaveral shoals; 600 tidal diagrams; 11,062 Cat island tides; 2. ,899 proofS of .finished and unfinished plates and annual sketches; 325 circular protractors and scales of shades. There huve also been ~66 sheets antiquarian and 10 sheets double-elephant paper. stretched m the printing office since the 1st of Jnneary, !Sol. PunLISflING.-At the date of the last report 29 sheets of Coast Survey maps and 11 sketches bad been published; these numbers have since .been increased to 37 charts and 33 sketchefl. Since November, 1800, there have been distributed, by direction of the Treasury Dcpar~ment, and for use in the .survey, 1,104 shocts of Delaware bay and river, 054 copies of Hyannis harbor, 64g copies of Pasquotank nver, 565 copies of harbors of Cat and Sbip islands, and !l.,704: sheets of the western coast. The whole number of sheets distNootoo ie 4,476. Tbei:e have been turned over to the disbursing officer of the Coa&t

99
.Survey, to be pla-ced with agents for sale, 150 sheets of the large map . of New York bay and harbor; 1,224 sheets of Delaware bay and river; 6lH copies of small map of New York bay and harbor, 110 copies of New Bedford, 309 copies of Nantucket harbor, 162 copies of the lmr.:. hors Qf Oawkins and Sheffield islands, 196 copies of Hynnnis harbor, .234 copies of Pasquotank river, 348 copies of the harbors of Cut and Ship islands, 3,200 sheets of the western coast, 221 copies of the wester.11 part of the southern coast of Long Island, 587 cor.ies of Hart and City islands and 8nchem's)Iead habor,-heing in al, 7,391 sheets of maps. INSTRUMENT MAKING AND REPAms.-The alterations, repairs, divi<ling and cleaning, required by the instruments of the field and office P'.lrties, generally, have been made <luring the past year under the direction of Joseph Saxton, esq. Besides, there have been made two trestles for ba.se n.pparatus, two deep-sea buckets, a telegraph cylinder, a ruling machine, a plane-table, three tripod stands for telescopes, six iron plummets, thirteen metre chains; a ten-inch vertical circle has been altered into a theodolite, the?dolites repaired, heliotropes repaired and adjusted, sextants and drawing instruments repaired. ' AucHIVES AND LIBRARY.-1\fr. C. B. Snow, in charge of the archives and library, has re-registered the original and duplicate geodetic work, securing simple and convenient reference; sepa.rated the hydrographic flnd topografhic reductions of original maps into their appropriate sections, anc opened a new register, al'l'nngea chronologicall;y, with an alphabetical index; superintended the binding of the onginal and duplicate sounding and an~le books; nearly finished arranging the ~Ydrogrophic and topographic !'beets in single tubes; superintended the force f1tnployed in copying sounding and tidal observations required to correct errors and complete duplicates, which duty will soon be completed; examined the rnturns of the permanent tidal observers, and reported as to completeness ; and placed the library in condition for convenient use. M1scELLANEous.-'1'he foregoingoffice-work has been generally under the immediate direction of the assistant in charge of the office. I proceed to notice other office duties conducted under pny own immediate superintendence. , . The examination of the hyclrogrnphic work returned by the different Parties, the revision of sailing directions and lists of dangers, the com· ~arison of charts prepared at difforcnt periods, the general direction of tidal computations according to prescribed form, and various miscellaneous hydrographic work, would. occupy the time and attention of an accomplished hydrogru.pher, with several assistants. During the past ~~ar, much nid has been derived from the labors, under my immediate irectiont of Lieutenant Wm. B. Whiting, United States navy, who ~as detailed for coast survey service in ~farch last; in examining portions. of the work in various sections, and in revising othe1· portions, and m reporting on subjects occurring durin~ the progress. of reduction <>f t~e charts. He has also computed the t1chtl observations at seven Btattons, and has directed the reductions made by Passed Midshipman

S. Doc.

a.

Somerville Nicholson, United States navy, sub-assistant A. S. Wads~ worth, and Mr. C. T. Jardella. Professor Pendleton, United States navy, assistant in the coast sur· .vey, has, since his return from duty with the party of Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull, been engaged in the computations of moon culminations as observed in 1846 at Washington, Georgetown, Philadelphia, and Cambridge, with their corresponding ones in Emopean observatories, for differences of longitude. He has also compared the results previously obtained for 1843, '44, 'iJ,6, and '46, with the check computations of a second computer, and is employed in the observa;. .tions of the same Class made at San Diego, California. The discussion of the tides at Cat island, Louisiana, and of Fort Morgan, Alabama, has been in progress under my immediate direction by Mr. W.W. Gordon, assisted by Mr. P. B. Hooe. I am indebtedt also, for aid in this and other <liscussions of observations, to Lieutenant W. P. Trowbridge, of the corps of engineers, attached to my party. The tidal observations at Key West, and at Galveston, are under ex,;. amination ·under my s.pecial direction. Woods Baker, esq., has rendered useful aid in the office-work of the superintendent, both in the business work and scientific details. Brevet Captain G. W. Lay, United States army, who was dciaclied for coast survey service in December last, has been on special duty under my immediate direction during the greater part of the time, particularl;y in connexion with the names of positions; and has i·endered valua?le aid in the preparation of my annual report. . The disbursements under the charge of Samuel Hom, esq.,. and the business arrangernents committed to him incidentally, have been made with an order and method, and care, which is characteristic of him. His experience in the details of the work, and his entire devotion to it, · render his services of the highest value. In conclusion, I present to the department those employed in the various branches ofthe survey, in the office, in the field, and afloat, as having executed faithfully ~he duties ~ntr~sted to th~:n' and deserving the approval of the execuuve and leg1slat1ve authorities. Respectfully submitted by A. D. BACHE, Superintendent U. S. Coast SurvC'IJ,

Hon. 'l'noMAs CoRWIN, Secretary ef tlte Treasury.

S. Doc. 3·

10'.l

CONTENTS OF

APPE~DlX.

No. 1. Distributi01t of the parties of the coast survey upon the coast ()hf the United States, during the surveying seasons, in different parts of
t e coast, from November, 1850, to November, 1851. No. 2. List of army officers on coast survey duty, September 1, lSl'H ·. No. 3. List of navy officers on coast survey duty, March 1, 1851. No. 3, bis. List of navy officers on coast survey duty, September 1,
~801,

~ress.

' No. 4. List of navy engineers on coast survey duty, March 1, 1851. No, 4, bis. List of navy engineers on coast survey duty, September l, 1851. No. 6. Re1mlts of the coast survey at different periods from 1844 lSol. No. 6. List of coast survey discoveries and developments. . .No. 7. Notes on a discussion of tidal observations made in connexion ',:1th the coast survey at Cat island, in the Gulf of Mexico, by Professoi.: <tl., D. Bitche, Superintendent of the Coast Survey. No. 8. Method used in the coast survey of showing the results of ~urrent observations, by Professor A. D. Bache. , 'bNo. 9. Report of Professor O. M. Mitchel, director of the Cincinnati Q servatory, to the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, on a new: bnetbod of recording differences of north polar distances or declination Y electro-magnetism. . · No. io. Extracts from the report of Professor Agassiz to the Super~ ~~tenden:l of the Coast Survey, on the examination of the Flcirida reef11 1 "'eys, and coast. · · No. 11. List of coast survey maps, sketches and preliminary charts, ~ngraved and engraving. . · No. 12. Listof geogruphiculpositionsdetermined bytheCoastSurvey. t No, 18. Letter of the Secretary of the ·rreasury, communicating tQ he Superintendent of the Coast Survey the act of Congress requiring b~atninations w be made in relation to light-houses, light-bouts, beacons, uoys, &c. ,s No. 14. Letter of the Superintendent of the Const Survey to the li ehcreta.ry of the 'l'reasury, applying for informn.tion in regru·d to the _g t-house matters referred to in the net of Congress. ·i No, 141 bis. Letters from the Secrct11ry of tho Treasury to the Super~te~dent of the Coast Survey, communicating reports from the Fifth Uditor in relation to light-house mutters l'eferred to in the act of Con·

to

0 No. 16. T11blo showing the results of examinations for sites of lightSouses, beacons, buoys, &c., reforred to the. Superintendent of the Coust of~rcey by the Secretary of the 'l'reusury in accordance with the UCt$ ongress. p N?· 1.6. Letter of the Superintendent to the chiefs of hydrograpliio ~f\~es ii;i th. e coast survey, en?losi~g n. com~u nicntion of ~he secretary · t1,.1,1;1 ~1ght-house Board askmg fo1· suggcsuons for the improvem.ent

S. Doc. 3.
and extension of the present' light-house establishment; and extmcts from their replies. No. 17. Table of light-houses, beacons, buoys, &c., recommended . by chiefs of hydrographic parties of the coast survey, for which no appropriations have been made. No. 18. Letter of Sears C. Walker, esq., assistant in the coast sur· vey, to the Superintendent, communicating an arran$'ement with the president of the Maine Telegraph Company to determme the difference m longitude of Cambridge and Halifax. No. 19. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury. communicating the result of an examina· tion, by Lieutenant Commanding M. Woodhull, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, into the necessity for certain aids to navi· gation on the coast of Maine, in accordance with 'the act of Congress and instructions of the Treasury Department. No. 20. Letter of the Supenntendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, communicating, with his approval, the recommendation of Lieutenant Commanding M. Woodhull, United States navy, assistant in the United States coast survey, to place a light-boat on Shovelful shoals. No. 21. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, communicating a report of Lieutenant Com·· manding C. H. McBlair, United States navy, assistant in the United States coast survey, on the erection of" bug" or ha1·bor lights at Holmes' Hole, Martha's Vineyard. No. 22. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, recommending certain aids to navigatioJJl required by act of Congress and instructions of the Treasury Depart· ment. No. 23. Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the 'l'reasury, on ranges in New York harbor, with extracts from the report of assistant J. B. GHick. No. 24. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, recommending certain aids to navigation on the coast of New York and New Jersey required by act of Congress and instructions of the Treasury Department; and communicating the report of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Woodhull. No. 26. Report of Sears C. Walker, esq., assistant in the coast sur' vey, commumcating the measures of wave-time made from 1849 to 1851. · No. 26. Abstract of reports on longitudes by Sears C. Walker, esq., · assistant in the coast survey, to the Superintendent. · No. 27. Report of the Superintendent of the Coost Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, recommending a light-house at Fishing Bat" tery, in Chesapeake bay; and report of examinations by Lieutenant Commanding J. J. Almy, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey. · No. 28. Extract from the repor~ of Henry L. Whiting, esq., nssisto.nt m the coast survey, to the Supermtendent, 0n the survey of Beaufort, North Carolina. No. 29. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to tbe

S. Doc.

S~

108

Secretary of the Treasury, communicating a report of Lieutenant Commanding J. N. Maffitt, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, upon the necessity for certain aids to navigation in Beaufort harbor, North Carolina. No. 30. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, communicating a report of Lieutenant Commanding J. N. Maffitt, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, on the necessity for a light-house on the Upper Jettee, Cape Fear river. No. 30, bis. Letter from the president of the Chamber of Commerce, of Charleston, South Carolina, to the Superintendent of the United States coast survey, requesting a trucing of the chart of Charleston harbor. No. 30, tri,s. Report of the Superintendent of tho United States coast -survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, communicating sailing'directions for the entrance into North Edisto harbor, by Lieutenant Commanding J. N. Maffitt, United States navy, assistant m the coast sm·vey. No. 31. Report of F'. H. Gerdes, csq., assistant in the coast survey, to the Superintendent, on the reconnaissance of the coast of Florida, .from the Suwannee river to the St. Martin's reef. No. 32. Extracts from the report of Lieutenant Commanding John ·Rodgers, U nitecl States navy, assistant in the coast survey, to the Supel'inteudent, of a reconnaissance of Mosquito inlet. . No. 33. Report. of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the ~ecretary of the Treasury, in regard to the expediency of placing buoys in Mosquito inlet, Florida; and transmitting the report of Lieutenant :Commanding John Rodgers, United States·navy, assistant in the coast .survey. No. 34. Report of the Superintendent of the Const Survey to the Secretary of the 'l'reasury, upon the necessity for a light-house or per.tnanent beacon on the Rebecca shoal, between the 'Tortugas and Marquesas, coast of Florida. No. 35. Report of Lieutenant Commanding C. P. Putterson, United .States navy, to the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, on buoys and beacons for entrances to Mobile bay. No. 36. Report of Lieutenant Commanding C. P. Patterson, United States navy, to the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, on buoys for ,Cat and Ship Island harbors. , No. 37. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to James E: · Saunders, esq., of Mobile, communicating sailing directions for Horn 1sland Pass. · No. 38. Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the ·Secretary of the 'l'reusury, on light-houses in Galveston bn.y. · No. 39. Report of the Superintendent of the Const Survey to the .Secretary of the Treasury, recommending a light-bont nnd buoys at .A.tansas Puss; and trunsmittincr the report of the examination by Lieu-· tenant Commanding 'l'. A. M. Craven, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey · . No. 40. Trilrnte of resl_)ect to tho memory of Lieutenant Cornmand·lng W. P. l\foArthur,·Urutecl States navy, assistant in the coast survey.. i No. 41. Repon of the 8uperintendcnt of the Coast Survey to the·

s~

Doc.

3~

Secretary of the Treasury, showing the most suitable site for a light· house at Point Conception, California. · No. 41, bis. Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, on the latitude and longitude.of Point Con~ ception, California. No. 42. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the 'rreasury, communicating a report of A. M. Harrison; esq., sub-assistant in the coast survey, on a site for a light-house on Pomt Pinos, near Monterey, California. No. 43. Ileport of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, recommending a light-house at Point Loma, near San Diego, California; with the report of sub-assistant A. M. Har.. 11son on the same. No. 44. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Sec,. retary of the Treasury, transmitting the report of sub-assistant A. M. Harrison, of a survey of Cape Hancock or Disappoiutment for the location of a light-house. No. 45. Extracts from a letter of Lieutenant Commanding James Alden, United States navy. assistant in the coast survey, to the Superintendent, relating to Humboldt harbor and Trinidad bay, California. No. 46. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, transmitting the report of R. D. Cutts, esq., assistant in the coast survey, with sketches of his sur.vey of Fort Point, at the entrance of San Francisco bay, and of Alcatraz or Bird island, within the bay, proposed as sites for light-houses. No. 47. Heport of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, correcting important errors in the positions of the Farallones and Point Lobos, entrance to San Frnncisco bay. No. 48. Report of Lieutenant W. A. Bartlett, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, to the Superintendent, on the general character of the coast of California. No. 49. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, communicating a letter from Lieutenant W. A. Bartlett, United States nnvy, assistant in the coast survey, relating to the commerce of Columbia river. . · No. 60. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, communicating information relating to Trinidad, Humboldt, and San b ie~o bays. . No. 51. Sailing direct10ns for entering the Columbia river as far as the harbor of Astoria, by Lieutenant Commamling Wm. P. McArthur, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey.. No. 62. Correspondence of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey with the Secretary of t.he Treasury, in relation to two sunken rocks in the harbor of San Francisco, reported by the collector of that port. No. 53. Report of Lieutenant Commanding James Alden, United :States navy, assist~nt i~ the cons.t ~urvey, to the S1Jpc1:intenclent, of the death of Pa.sscd M1dsh1pmun W1llmm De Ko\'en, Urnted States nu.vy1 .assistant in the coast survey, on the 31st of Ma.y, 1851. No. 64. Letter of the Superin~eru~ent of the Co!i.st Survey to the Seo'.tetary of the Treasury, commumcatmg the loss of the steamer J efie1·.son .on the coast of Patagonia, with documents relative thereto.

..

s:~

Doe. 3:.

No. 'f)l), Report to the assistant in charge of the Coast Surv~y office, on the electrotyping operations of the Coast Survey, by George 'fathiot, electrotypist. j}';' No. 5(), Report of Lieutenant Commanding W. A. Bartlett, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, to the Superintendent, of ~he bxarninations of the reefS iff Hell Gate channel, and changes produced Y blasting. No. 57. Report of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, upon an examination in reference to a light~ouse at Humboldt harbor, California, made by Lieutenant Command111g James Alden, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey. No. 57, bis. Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Survey to the Iron. Joseph Grinnell, of the Committee on Commerce, Honse of Representatives, communicating a report of Lieutenant W. A. Bartlett, D~ited States navy, assistant in the coast survey, on the importance of a light-house at Humboldt harbor.

l06

S. Doc. 3.

LIST OF SKETCHES ACCOMPANYING THIS REPORT.

A. Sketch of progress, Section 1. A, No. 2. Nantucket shoals, re-engraved. A, No. 3, Current Chart Boston harbor. A, No. 4. Sketch of Holmes' Hole, showing proposed beacon. Sketch of progress, Section 2. B, No. 2. Sketch of geographical positions, Point Judith to N. York. B, No. 3. " " New York to Capes of the Delaware. B, No. 4. Sandy Hook changes. B, No. 5. Beacon ranges. C. Sketch of pl'ogress, Section, 3. C, No. 2. Entrance Chesapeake. C, No .. 3. Fishing Battery.

B.

D. Sketch of progress, Section 4. D, No. 2. Hatteras shoals. D, No. 3. Hatteras inlet.
D, No. 4. D,· No. 5, D, No. 6. D, No. 7. Gulf Stream soundings. Beaufort harbor. Pro#Jress of survey of Cape Fear river and vicinity. Fry1ngpan shoals.

Sketch of progress, Section 15. E, No. 2. Sketch of progress, Savannah river. E, No. 3. Sketch of progress, north and south Edisto and St. Helens. sound. E, No. 4. Savannah city. E, No. o. Savannah entrance. E, No. 6. Bull's bay. E, No. 7. North Edisto.

E.

F.

Sketch of progress, Section 6. F, No. 2. Sulrsketches of progress of work. F, No. 3. Mosquito inlet. F, No. 4. Cedar keys. F, No. 5. Preliminary chart of Key West. F, No. 6. Rebecca shoal.

o;

Sketch of progress, Section 7.

H. Sketch of progress, Section 8. H, No. 2-6. Cat Island tides. H, No. 7. Horn Island pass.

S. Doc. 3.'
H, No. 8. Delta Mississippi. H, No. 9. Pass Christian H, No. 10. Mobile bay.

l'O?

I. Sketch of progress, Section 9. I, No. 2. Galveston bay. I, No. 3. Aransas Pass.

J.
No. No. No. No. ,J, No. J, No. J, No. J, No. J, No. J, No. J, No. K.

J, J, J, J,

Sketch of progress, Sections 10 and 11. 2. Mare Island straits. 3. Point Conception. 4. Point Pinos. 5. Trinidad bay. 6. Entrnnco Sun Francisco. 7. San Diego. 8. Humboldt bay. 9. Sketch of progress Sun Francisco. 10. Sketch of progress Sun Diego. 11.. Point Pinos view, incorporated into McArthur's chart. 12, 13, 14. McArthur's chart, 4th edition.

Mouth of the Columbia river, showing site of light-house, scale na1ooo· K, No. 2. Cape Hancock. · K, No. 3. Mouth of the Columbia river, scale TTho· X. Plate showing the electrotype apparatus.

APPENDIX No. 1.
Distribution

of the parties ef tlie <Joa.st
"' ~= d ..9

parts of the coast, from November, 1850, to Notiember, 1851.

Survey upon the coa.st

of the

United Stt1tes, during the surveying set&s, in the different

0 """" ~

...
il tgt
"'::s ....... c..., £"'
s::i

..

Limits included in several sections.

~~ .... ., c"' ·= =·z

Operations.

Persons conducting the operations.

Loc.alities of the several operations.

I

P&88111Il11quoddy bay to Point Judith, including the coast ofMaine, New Hampshire, Massaehilsette, and Rhode Island.

1

Primary triangulation and astronomical and magnetic obseI'Vlltions. Magnetic observations Reconrudssance -

A. D. Bache, superintendent; Lieut. W. P. Trowbridge, corps of engineers, and assistant; Geo. W.
Dean, sub-assistant. J.E. Hilgard, assistant C. 0. Bout...Ue, lloSSistant; Brevet Major Henry Prince, United States !ll'IIlf. Captain T. J. Cram, United State~ t-0pographical engineers, assist-

·

2 3
4

-

-

-

Mount Pleasant, Maine, occupied for geodetic and llStronomical observations; Ossijiee Mt., Maine, for geodetic, and 'CaJ,l0 Small Tuint, Maine, for astronomical observations. (See. also Section ill.) Saco, Kennebunk, and Portland harbors. Extension of primary statioDB beyond Penobscot. (P.ut ofseas0n; see also Section V.)

t;
~·
0

5 6
7

8

·

\

Sub-section from Portsmoutp, New Hampshire, t-0 Saco, Maine, completed and connected with ant. primary triangulation. . ReconnaiSsance for secondarytriangnlation, Casco Secondary triangulation - C. 0. Boutelle, assistarit bay, Maine, part of season. . Alex. W. Longfellow, assistant Topography Newburyport harbor, Massachusetts: Topography - Henry L. "\\"'biting, assistant; R. South and east shores of Cape Ann, Massachusette, M. Bache, aid. (Double party.) from Beverly Farms to Hah1mtPoint. (See also Section IV.) Topography J. B. Gluck, assist.ant. {Double Chatham and vicinity, and W ellfteet, Cape Cod, party.) Massachu.setts.. (See also Section Ill.) . Lieut~nant Commanding Charles Nantucket shoals; Bass Rip; l)avis' Bank; Fislf. Hydrography H. McBlair, United States navy, ing Rip; Mu.skeget channel, off Bond island; and assistant; Lieut. Com'g Samuel Gay Head, &!em lwbor, . .and its-approaches. . Swart.wout. Dou'ole

Secondary triangulation -

.

. .

-

-

-

-

9

'Hydro~by

-

lnspeclion Special duty

·

n

Point Jnditb to Cape Henlopen, including t.be coast ofConneeticut,New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Delaware.

I

Triangnlation Topography Topography Hydrography

2
3
4

·

5

Hydrograpby Hydrography

-

6

Ill

Cape Henlopen t-0 Cape Henry, including the ooast of Delaware, Maryllllld,
~ana

1
2 3 4

VII'ginia.

Primary triangulation and astronomical obsef\'ll· dons. Primary lllld sec1mdary triangulation. Astronomical observat'ns Secondary triangulation -

5

Reconnaissance -

·

Lieutetumt Cmmrumding Maxwell 'NeWbllr}'pOrt harbor, Massaclmsetta; ·approaches Woodhull, United SQrtes navy, ro Portsmouth .harbor, New Hampshire; Chai.· ham harbor, MllssachUBetts; tides and curlll!llism.nt. rents of Vmeyard sound, Buzzard's bay and passages connecting. Brevet :Major I. I. Stevens, corps Inspection of progress of certain parties during part of season. of engineers, assistant. Brevet Captain G. W. Lay, United During part of season. States army, assistant. Edmund Blunt, assistant; Lient~n Hudson river, from limits of former work. of se&110n; see also Seetion ill.) ant Jos. S. Totten, United St&tes army, assistant. - Re-survey of Sandy Hook t,o determine its elumges. Henry L. Whiting, assistant (Part of season.) · Survey for ranges for Flynn's Knoll. and Swash J.B. Gluck, assist.ant ebannel. (Part of season.) Lieuienant Commanding Maxwell Verifieation on south side Long Island, from Neapeagne to Montauk, anil eastward. Revision of Woodhull, United States navy, entrance to Connecticut river. (See also Secassistant. tion I.) Lieutenant Commanding Samuel Off-shore worli: and tides and currents, between Gay Head lllld Cape May. Swll.rlwont, "United Statei navy, assistant. Lieutenant W ashingt.on A. Bart- Minut~ Blll'Vey of Way's reef; Pot Roek, &c., at Hell Gate, for changes by blasting. lett, United Stat.es navy, ll88i.stant_ A. D. Bache, superintendent; Geo. Observations oflatitude and azimuth at Causten's station, near Georgeto'Wll, D. C. (Part of se&l!On; \V. Dean, suh-llSi!istantsee also Section I.) EdmundBlunt,assistant,andLieut. Continuation of triangulation of Chesapeake, preliminary determination to capes. (See alao J. S. Totten, U.S.army,asmtant Section II.) Sears C. Walker, assistant - Longitude observations at Seaton station.. John Farley, ll!!sistanti George H. Outer shore of peninsula of eastern shore of Vu'Bagwell, aid. glnla, from Cedar island t-0 Rogue's island. Brevet Major Henry Prince, U.S. To connect triangulation of Chesapeake and outer army, 8811istant coast.· (Part·&f·sea.sou; see alao Section IV.) -

ana-

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued·

J;.:. .... .,

·

...... o ....
"';:I

~I:;

Limits included in several sections.

~d

... .,

... "'
0"'

g.~

Operations.

Persons conducting the operations.

Localities of the several operations·

~

·o

z
Cape Henlopen to Cape Henry, &e.-continued.

·= o 6 7

I -

m

Topography Topography

-

-

J.B. Gliick, assistant

-

John Seib and S. A. Wail)wright, sub-assistants. (Double party.)
George D. Wise, assist.ant, and Mr. J. A. Dennv. J.M. Wampler, s~b-assistant, and Mr. Wm. M. Johnson. Brevet Major I. I. Stevens, corps of engineers, assistant. Lieut. Commanding JohnJ.Almy, U.S. navy, assistant. Lieut. Commanding B. F. Sands, U. S. navy, assistant. Brevet Major Henry Prince, U. S. army, assistant. L. F. Pourtales, assistant-

8

Topography . Topography Topography

Verification work on Patapsco river a,nd eastern shore. (Part of season; see also Section I.) Eastern (Chesapeake) shore of Maryland and Virginia from Sykes' island to Bose Mary: and west.em' shore from Smith's Point L. H. to Wolf Trap station. (See 8.Iso Section V.) Outer shore of peninsula of eastern shore of Maryland and Virginia. Same work during part of season. (See also Seotions VIII and IX.) Inspection of work on Patapsco. Out.er coast, from Lonesome Hill, Maryland, t SouthGargathy, Virginia; and Chesapeake bay Middle Ground entrance to Chesapeake bay (Part of season; see also Section VIII.) Reconnaissance of Pamplico and Core sounds, &e (Part of season; see ~so Section Connexion of Forbes' Pomt, near Elizabeth City and Seaton station, Washington, for differen of longitude. . . . Currituck sound, nearly to the Virg:una line.· Entrance to Cape Fear river, (N. C.) (See Section V.) From Cape Hatteras (N. C.) south t-0 inlet. BeaUrort Harbor (N. C.) and approaches, (~a.rt. of~; see a1ao ~n I.)

.flt

9

Hydrography Hydrography

10
IV
Cape Henry tG Cape Fear, coast of Virginia and North Carolina.

1
2
3 4

Reconnaissance -

..!Btronomical observat'ns
Secondary triangulation Secondary triangulation -

-

J?·)

.

5

\

6
\

lTonia<y- -Topography ·
Hydrograpby -

J. J. S. Hassler, assistantCharles P. Bolles, assistant, and Mr. J. W. Gregoria. .A. S. Wadsworth, sub-assistant, and Mr. Charles Jardella. H. L. Whiting, assist.ant ·

-

7

8

Hydrography Hydrography Hydrography -

9

V

Cape Fear to St. Mary's river, including coast of South Carolina and Georgia.

1

Primary and secondary triangulation. .Astronomical observations. Secondary triangulation Secondary triangulation Topography Topography Hydrography

2
3
4

5

6
7

TI

St. Mary's river to St. Joseph's, coast of .Florida.

1

Inspection of parties Reconnaissance Secondary triangulation -

2

Secondary triangulation Secondary triangulation .

3

j

Lieut. Commanding T. A. Jtmlrina, FryingptUJ shoals, near Cape Fear river, (N. C.) U. S. navy, assistant. (Part of season; see also Sections IV and V.) . Lieut. Commanding Richard Wain- .Albemarle, Roanoke, and Croatan sounds, comwright, U. S. navy, assistant. pleted; Currituck sound commenced. Lieut. Commanding J. N. Maffitt, Entrance to Cape Fear river, (N. C.) (Part of U. S. navy, assistant. season; see also Section V.) Lieut. Commanding T. A. Jenkins, Exploration of Gulf Stream-continued. U.S. navy, assistant. C. 0. Boutelle, assistant; Lieut. East and west ends of Edisto base (S. C.) occuJos. S. Totten, U. S. army, and pied; lines opened; secondary triangulation of Mr. J. W. Gregorie. North Edisto and Dawho rivers; reconnaissance .for secondary triangulation to Stono river. C. 0. Boutelle, assistant; Prof. Difference of longitude of Charleston and Savm-. Lewis R. Gibbes. nah stations. C. P. Bolles, assistant, and Mr. South Edisto and .Ashepoo rivers and St. Helena Geo. A. Fairfield. sound. (See also Section IV.) C. 0. Boutelle, assistant, and Mr. Preliminary triangulation of entrance to Savannah J. W. Gregorie. river. (Close of season.) Geo. D. Wise, assist.ant, and Mr. South Edisto entrance and river, and Edisto island, J.A. Denny. near east end of base. (See also Section III.) S. A. Wainwright, sub-assistant - Harbor of Savannah and approaches. (During part of season; see also Section III.) Lieut. Comm'gJ. N. Maffitt, U.S. Charleston harbor completed; North Edisto har- ~ navy, assistant. bor of refuge completed; harbor of Savannah · i completed. Preliminary survey of entrance t-0 Savannah river. A. D. Bache, 81Iperintendffllt - Inspection of progress of parties in Section, &e. F. H. Gerdes, assistant, and Mr. Preparation of sites of bases; connexion of TortuHenry Ginder. gas and Marquesas, Cedar Keys, and Crystal river harbor, &c. (See also Section VIII.) . F. H. Gerdes, assistant Triangulation of Cedar Keys and vicinity, and of Crystal river harBor, commenced. J. E. Hilgard, assistant - Triangulation of Florida keys, from Key Biscayne to Soldier key. (Part of season; see also Section I.) L. F. Pourtales, assistant, Lieut. Triangulation of Florida keys continued from SolJas. Totten, U. S. army, assistdier key to Turkey key. (Part of seaeon; see ant, and Mr. Ethelbert Maaon. also Section IV.)

APPENDIX No. 1-Continued.

"' lt
0 .

..,

.....

.... "' o,_
· 0

"'::l

Limits included in se·eral ·sections.
::: ~--

Operations.

Persons conducting the operations.

Localities of the se!eral operations.

~--1~~~~~~~~~~~-~~1~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~

.

VI

St. Mary's river to St. Joseph's, &c.-Continued.

4

Topography Hydrography

-

-

J. H. Adams, sub-assistant, and Mr. R. M. Bache. (Double
party.)

5

Lieut. Cmnm'g John Rodgers, U. S. nary, assistant. F. H. Gerdes, assistant, and Mr. Henry Ginder. S. A. Gilbert, assistant -

VIlI

Mobile bay to Vermillion bay, COll!lt of Alabama, Mississippi, and part of Louisiana.

I

Primary triangullltion and secondarytriangulation. Secondary triangulation -

Marquesas, &c., Bahia Honda, &c., Key Biscayne and main, to limits of triangulation, completed. (See also Section I.) Key 'Vest harbor and approaches completed; Boca. Grande, Bahia Honda, reconnaissance of Musquit-O inlet, (eastern coast of Florida.) Station points secured. (Part of season; see also Section n.) Re'Vision of prenous work and extension westward into Lake Borgne; Biloxi and St. Louis bays triangulated; signals plaeed in Lake Borgne and on eastern shore Pontchartrain. West Pasc:igoula riwr, Mississippi, tb Biloxi bay and Back bay; Pass Christian, from Pitcher Point to Henderson's Point. Eastward and westward of Mobile entrance; Pasa Christian; reconnaissance of Southwest Pasa. and P888 ii l'outre, mouths of Missi.ssippi. Bonsecours bay, near entrance of Mobile bay. (Part of season.) From Base on Gal>eston island, Texllll, and Highland bayou, westward to "Peninsula" station. Head of Galveston bay; entrance to San Jaeint.o river; delbl. of Trinity river and Turtle ban

2

3
4

1

Topography H"fdrography Hydrography

-

·

W. E. Greenwell, a.."8ist.ant, and Mr. Wm. M. Johnson. Lieut. Comm'g B. F. Sands, U. S. nary, assistant. Lieut. Comm'g JM. Alden, u_ S. nary, assistant. Jas. 8. Williams, assist., and Spencer C. McCorkle, sub-assist.ant. Sub-assistant J. Y. Wampler -

I I -

1

X

lVennilion bay to the boundary, part of Louisiana and Texas.

1

I
I
I

Prin_Jary an_d secondary
triangulation. · · ·

2

i Topography

Hydrography

·

X&XI

Main and secondary triangulation. Geographical determinatione.

Lieut. Comm'g T. A. M. Cr&Ten, U. 8. :ll&Vf, asrist-ant. · R. D Cutts, 111!sist1111t Geo. Dandson, assistant, and Kr. John Rockwell.

EB8t 1111d West bayw, tlettr entnmee of Gaf.. vest.Qn bay, to limits of triangulation. (See aisa Section III.) Galveston entrance, approaches 1111d Lower bay.
Determination of Farallottes; enmmce to San Francisco bay; San Diego harbor. Latitude and longitude of Point Pinos, Monterey, California ; of Point Loma, l!lan Diego, California ; of Cape Disappointment, Columbia ri"fer, Oregon; difr. long. San Francisco and Cape Disappointment. North and south sides of entrance ro San Frlili~ cisoo bay; Mare island, for site for fortification and DaTY yard; sites of light-houses at entnmee to San Francisco bay, on Farallones, and on Bird island. Sites of light-houses at Point Conception, at Point Pinos, (Monterey,) at Point Loma, (San Diego, California,) and at Cape Difappointment, (Oregon,) and Point Adams, Oregon. Trinidad bay ,and river; Humboldt bay, California; 'Views of entrance t-0 Columbia river; general reeonnai!!l!attce of the coast south of San Francisco; hydrography of the harbor of Monterey; and cyntinuation of reconnaissance of coast south of :Monterey.

3

Topography

- Richard D. Cutts, assistant, and
Mr. Augs. S. Rodgers.

Topography

-

A. M. Harrison, sub-assistaut, and Mr. J. L. Lawson.

4

Hy-Orography

-

Lieut. Comm'g Jas. Alden, U.S. navy, asl!i.<itant.

cd" .

APPENDIX No. 2· .A list of army ojficen on Coast Survey duty, Bepttmiher 1, 1831.
Name.

Rtmk.
Captain topographical engineers ..··..·.···..·. Captain and brevet major 4th infantry ·.·..·.... 1st lieutenant and brevet major engineers ··.····· 1st lieutenant 2d artillery ·..···.·.·····..···.. 1st lieutenant 2d artillery ·.·.··...·..·..··.·.. 1st lieutenant 7th rutillery ····················· 1st lieutenant 2d artillery ·····.·········...·.. 1st lieutenant 2d artillery .··...·.···..···..·.· 1st lieutenant and brevet captain 6th infantry ..·.· 2d lieutenant engineers ·.······ _...········... 2d lieutenant engineers ··.······· n · , · · - · · · · · ·
1

Dat(l of attaclunent.

Thomas J. Cram ··· _...................... Henrv Prince. . . . . . . . . . · . . . . · · · · . . · . . · · . . . Isaac~ I. Stevens .·······················.·· i Augustus A. Gibson · · · · · · · · · . . · · · · . . · · · . . · .Irunes Totten... · . . · . . . · · · · · · . . . · · · · · . · · · . 'William l\f. Gardner........ · · . . . · . . · . · · · · . Richard H. Rush . · · · · · . . . . . · · · · · · · · · · . · . . Joseph S. Totten....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · George W. Lay........................... Ed,vard B. Hunt.. . . . · . . . · . · · · · . · . . . . . . . . . William P. Trowbridge ..······...·····....
1

December 7, 1846 December 10, 1850 September 14, 1849 January 17, 1851 December 10, 1860 flJ February 1, 1851 December 10, 1860 ,t; 0 December 10, 1850 ~· December 10, 1850 May o, 18fil ~

Allril

18~ l8~l

APPENDIX No. 3.

List of navy officers on Coast Sun:-ey duty, March 1, 1851.
Vessel. Locality of senice. Name Rank.

Date of attachment.

Steamer Bibb.. . · . · · · . . . · . Office .·....··· _...... _ C. H. McBlair .. ___ - Lieut. commanding · H. A. Wise _. . . . . . · · Lieutenant .···..... C. St. Geo. Noland_ ·..... do ..·.···..... F. S. Conover · . . . . · . Passed midshipman _ Schooner Madison ..····.. _ Office. · · . . · · . · . · · · · · . . M. Woodhull. · . . . . . . Lieut. commanding · E: A. Barnet. . . . . . . . Lieutenant ..··.. _.. J. H. l\Iarch........ Passed midshipman . G. H. Bier. _.···......· do ..·..· do ..... . Wm. Van Wyck ..... __ .do ..·.·. do ..... . Steamer Corwin · · · . . · · · · · Office .·····..·.. ~. · . . . T. A. Jenkins · . . . . · . Lieut. commanding .. J. S. Taylor · · . · . . . . Lieutenant .··....· Office ····..··..·.·..·. A. S. Baldwin ......·.... do ····.·.··.... W. A. Bartlett ....·.....· do .·..·....·.·. S. Nicholson.. . . . · · . Passed midshipman. Schooner Gallatin . · · · · · · · · Section 6 ········ __ · · · · · J. N. Maffitt · · · · · · · · Lieut. commanding .· Daniel Ammen...... Lieutenant. ..... _.. J. D. Bullock .·.·.. _ Passed midshipman _ J. D.Langbome ··...... do .····. do ··.··· A. C. Rhind ···.····.·. do ··.··. do .····· Steamer Hetzel ··· _._..... Section John Rodgers · ~..... Lieut. commanding.· J. D. Read......... Lieutenant ·········

April 11, 1849
Oct. 8, 1849

1860 Feb. 21, 1861 Mar. 30, 1848 Sept. 8, 1849 1860 0 July 30, 1860 ? 1860 Feb. 17, 1849 July 18, 1860 Jan. 9, 1849 :May 29, 1848
.May 29,
h

=

'='

Oct. 17, 1849

6...............

Feb. 8, 1861 1850 Aug. 29, 1849 May 29, 1850 Nov. 27, 1848 Apr. 27, 1849 1860

APPENDIX No. 3--Continued.
Vessel. Locality of service. Name. Rank.

I
I

Date. of attachment.

Steamer Hetzel .··

:.:~- ··.

Steamer Walker . · · . . . · · . . "' Schooner J. Y. l\Iason .·... ,

Schooner Morris. · · . · . . · . . .

Schooner Ewing...... · · . .

l
I

Section 6 .······.·. : · ..· J. w·alcutt ......... ·. Passed midshipman J. l\Iyers ..·.........·. do ...... do...... N. T. \Vest. ...·....... do ·..·.. do. Section 8 ~ .............. ~- F. Sands.. . . . . . . . L~eut. commanding .. 1 · M. C. \V atkrns . . . . . . Lieutenant ........ . W. ·w. Roberts... . . . Acting master. A. N. Lynch........ Assistant surgeon . . . Jno. B. McCaulev... Passed midshipman. Jos. Fry ..... --~ ....... do ...... do...... Section 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . · · . R. Wainwright ..... Lieut. commanding.. W. A. \Vebb ........ , Acting master...... Jos. D. Dane]s ..... .' Passed midshipman. E. Renshaw ........... clo ...... do...... Section 9 . · · · · . . . · . . . . · . T. A. l\I. Craven . . . . Lieut. commanding. . ! C. E. Fleming... . . . . Lieutenant ......... 1 D. Bryan .. _..... . . . Passed asst. surgeon· T. Pattison . . . . . . . . . Acting master ...... , L. H. Lyne......... Passed midshipman . Sections 10 and 11....... J. H. Moore . . . . . . . . Acting master...... B. R. !tiitcbell. . . . . . . Assistant surgeon . . . Wm. De Koven . . . . . Passed midshipman . \Vm. Gibson ........... do ...·.. do ·..·.. On. tberr wa-y to )oin l>~ -\ Jas. Alden, ····...·. 1 Lieut. commanding ·

.1

May 29, 1850

May 29, 1850 May 29, 1850 1t-_lar. 12, 1851 August, 1850 October, 1850
1850

·I
·I

Dec. 6, 1849 Oct. 9, 1850 Jan. 29,
1850 1850 1851 1850 1850 18'50 1850 · 1850 1848 · 1850 1848

I October, October,
October,

I

Dec. 5, Nov. 29, Mar. 19, 1849

/ T. H. SteYens ....··. /Lieutenant ·.···.· __ R. M. Cuyler........ Passed midshipman . Steamer Jefferson ·.······..·. -· - . -· ·····..... - .··. F. K. Murray ...·... Lieut. commanding.. C. W. Place........ Acting master...... Chas. Martin ........ Assistant surgeon . . . \V. H. Wilcox ....... Passed midshipman. G. Cilley .............. do .... _.do .. __ .. D. P. McCorkle ......·. do .... _.do......

Mar. 12, 1851 Aug. 16, 18'!:7 1850 Jan. 14, 18Dl Dec. 31, 1850 May 29, 1850 1850 Aug. 12, 1848

APPENDIX No. 3 bis.
List of navy o:fficm cm Coast Survey duty, September 1, 1851.
Vessel. Locality of service.
NllIIle.

· Rank.

.
Date of attachment.

s

Steamer Bibb ·.····.····· · .,,Section 1 ···.·····....·. C. H. 1\IcBlair ...... Lieut. commanding .. H. A. Wise ........· J... ieutenant. ···.·... C. St. Geo. Noland .·. ·... do .·.......·.·· Leo. Paulding .·..... Acting master ..·... ·~;v. S. Bishop ....... Assistant surgeon . · . F. S. Conover .·.·.·. Passed midshipman . Brig \Vashington ··..··.·.. Section 1 ···.··.···.···· S. Swartwout ..·.··. Lieut. commanding ·· G. W. Doty ........ Lieutenant ......... J. D. Bullock .·..... Acting master ...... J. L. Davis ......... Passed midshipman. Schooner Madison .....·.·. Sections 1 and 2 ··.·····. Maxwell \Voodhull ... Lieut. commanding ·· G. H. Preble ........ Lieutenant .·.·..... E. A. Barnet ..·.··. . . · . do ···.·........ J. H · .March . ., ····. Acting master ·.··.. S. F. Cowes ........ Assistant surgeon ... G. H. Bier ......... Passed midshipman . teamer Legare .·.·······. Section 3 ..····.·.·.···.. John J. Almy ....... Lieutenant commd'g. Thomas l\f. Crossan ·· Lieutenant. ........ T. S. Phelps ·....... Acting master ·...·. J. S. Gilliam ........ Assistant surgeon ···

Apr. 11, 1849 Oct. 8, 1849 May 29, 1850 l\Iay 1, 1851 l\lay 3, 1851 Feb. 21, 1851 l\Iay 3, 1851 l\Iay 2, 1851 Aug. 29, 1849 l\Iay, 1851 Mar. 30, 1848 Aug. 26, 1851 Sept. 8, 1849
1850

.

~ '

l\Iay 16, 1851 July 30, 1850 Mar. 12, 1851 l\lay 1,1851 l\Iay 1, 1851

May 6, l8:ll.

Schooner Graham · . · · · · · · · Section 8 · ...............
Schoon et

Galiatitt · · .. · · · · · · Section 4 ·.·.·······.·..

Steamer CorWin · ····· · · · · · Section 4 ··············.

Scbrts Nautilus &

Meredith.~,
I

Section

a..···...·.·.·..

I
. I
I i

I

' :

Schooner Ewll>g ······· ·· \Sections 10 and 11. · ····.

W. W. Low · ·.···· " Passed midshipman Horace N. Crabb.,. · ··· do .··· Hdo...... J, E. Jouett ·...·.·...·. do ....... do...... N. B. Hatrisoll...... Acting master .·.·. , Richard L. Law..... Passed midshipman · William Van W yck. J. N. l\Iaflitt...... · · . · Lieutenant comm'ng. Daniel Ammen . · . . . . Lietitehatit. A. C. Rhind.. · . . · · . . Acting master.. · · · · J. D. Langhorne ···. , Passed midshipman . T. A. Jenkins ······· Lieutenant comm'ng. John S. Taylor. · · · · · Lieutenant. · · . · . · . · Paul Shirley ....... ,. Actihg master...... R. A. Marr . · · . . . . . . Passed midshipman. S. P. Quackenbush .····· do ····.· do ·.··.. . T. Barraud ...··....· do ······ do...... Charles F. Hopkins ··... do .····. do ·..··· B. F. Sands. . · · · · · . . Lieutenant comm'ng. l\f, C. Watkins...... Lieutenant......... W. W, Roberts. · · · · · Acting master. A. N. Lynch · · · . · · . · Assistant surgeon · . . J.B. l\fcCauley. · . . · · Passed midshipman · "William L. Powell ..·.·· do ·····. do...... S.S. Bassett ·..·...·..· do ····.. do ·...·. James Alden ········ Lieutenantcomm'ng. T. H. Stevens .····.· Lieutenant......... Benjamin R. Mitchell. Assistant surgeon. R. M. Cuyler.. . · · · . · Passed midshipman . William Gibson ···..··. do ·····. do... . . .
4

April ?, 1811 April 1, 1851 April 1, 1851 l\Iayi 1851 .May 11, 1851
Feb.

8, 1851

March 9, 1846 Jan. 1, 1851 March 9, 1846 March 9, 1846 June 24, 1851 May, 1851 July 3, 1B51 July 29, 1851 July 26, 1851 March 9, 1846 Mar. 12, 1851 March 9, 1846 October, 1850 Aug. 2, 1851 April 2, 1851 l\larch 9, 1846 Mar. 12, 1851 Aug. 16t 1847 Nov. 29, 1848

APPENDIX Ne;>. 3 bis-Conlinu.ed.
Veuel.
Locality of service.

N8.Qle.

Rank.

Daw of attllclunent.

On the way home from the wreck of steamer Jefferson.

Steamer Hetzel .···.···.. ~ Office ..··············.· Schooner J. y. Mason...... Office .····.····.···.···
~hooper

Morris. · · . · · · · . . · Office ······.··..·.··..·
Office .· _-···.········..·

F. K. Murray. . · · · · . . Lieutenant ··...·... C. W. Place........ Acting master ·..... Charles Martin · · · · . · Assistant surgeon ... ,V. H. Wilcox .··.·.. Passed midshipman. G. Cilley ..·····.···..· do .····· do .··... D. P. McCorkle ···...·· do .·.·.· do ..·... John Rodgers .··.... Lieutenantcomm'ng. J. D. Read. · · . · · · . . · Lieutenant. ....... . J. Myers . · . · . · . . . . . Passed midshipman. Rich'd \V ainwrigLt... Lielltenant comm'ng. William A. Webb . · . . Acting master .··... T. A. M. Craven ·...· Lieutenantcomm'ng. L. H. Lyne......... Passed midshipman · \V. B. \Vhitney...... Lieutenant ..·...·.· A. S. Baldwin ............ do .·..··.····.· W. A. Bartlett ··.···..·. do .····....·.. , S. Nicholson · · · · · · . · Passed midshipman ·

1850 Jan. 14, 1861 Dec. 31, 1860 May 29, 1860
1860

Aug. 12, 1848 March 9, 1846 March 9, 1846 March 9, 1846 March 9, 1846 March 9, 1846 Jan. S?9, 1851 October, l 860 April, 1861

~

o
~
.~

·

Jan. 9, 1849 May 29, 1848
Oct. 17, 1849

APPENDIX No. 4.

List of Assistant Engineers United States
Vessel
Name.

1la'D!f

on Coast Surcey duty, Marek 1, 18lH.
Rank.

I

Date of attachment.

-Steamer Hetzel. __ · _ ~ . __ ····. H. Mason. - _ ..·..·... _. · . . · . · . S. B. Knox ··.·.·. - . . . . . . . · · . . Steamer Walker .... __ ··..··. James G. Young ......· _....... R. C. Potts .........·· __ ·. : . _. M. Fletcher __ · _- · _.· _··.· ___ · · Steamer Jefferson. __ ·· -- ___ .· B. F. Garvin .... _ .. - - ..... _. _. R. H. Long. - .· - .·. - - ·· -.- ..·.. I W. A. Nones. - ..... - .. - ...· __ .j '\V. H. Rutherford. _- ·..·... ___ · J Steamer Legare. ________ ·· __ _ J. Alexander .. _ .·.. - - ····. __ .. ,

Second assistant engineer. _····. Third assistant engineer _ .·...·. Second assistant engineer .·····. Third assistant engineer ·. _..·.. Third assistant engineer .. _.. _.. First assistant engineer._ .... __ ., Second assistant engineer._ ·· ___ Second assistant engineer .. _._.. Third assistant engineer ...·.. _. First assistant engineer ·..·.. _..

January, January, January, January,

1850. 1850. 1850. 1850. 1850. 1851. 1851. 1851. 1851. 1850.

AP.PENDIX No. 4 bis·
List

of .Assistant Engineers

United States naiy on Coast Survey duty, September 1, 1851.

·

Vessel.

Name.

1

Rank.

1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1~~~~~~-

l

Date of attachment.

Steamer Bibb · · · · · ·· · · · · . · · . D. B. Macomb ·.....·.··.·..·. Third assistant engineer .......·. ! May 29, 1851. E. S. De Luce ...··....·.·...·. \ Third assistant engineer ......... I May 29, 1851. Steamer Legare ··· "'... · · · · · · . J. M. Adams ...·...·.·..·..·.. 1 Third assistant engineer ......... \ May 6, 1851. W. H. King ...........··..... I Third assistant engineer ......·. ·) May 8, 1851. 'V. J. Lamdin .··.·......··... -1 Third assistant engineer. . · · . . · . . l\Iay 23, 1851. Steamer Corwin · · · · . · · . · · · · . T. Kilpatrick ..·.....·.....·.. \ Second assistant engineer ......· May 12, 1851. 0 A. La~·ton ..·.·.. __ .. . . . · . . . . . Second assistant engineer........ May 12, 1851. 0 \V. S. Stamm . . . . . . . . . . . · . · . . . Third assistant engineer ........ -\ May 13, 1851. ~ Steamer Jefferson ···········. 1 B. F. Garvin........... . · . . . . . First assistant engineer ... _...... 1 January, 1851. ~ J R. H. Long. · . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . . Second ass~stant en~neer ....... ·j J anua~, 1851. ' \~. A. Nones~---------------·- SecondasSistantengmeer ·....... , January, 1851. W · H. Ruthenord. _.. __ · · . · . . · . Third assistant engineer .·....·. -\ January, 1851.

J

·I

I

APPENDIX No. 5.
Results of the Coast Suroey at different periods, from 1844 to 1851.
From 1844 to 1850.

I I

For 1850.

Total from beginning of survey.

n___ · · miles. · . · · · · · . · . · · . · . . . . · . . · · . · . · · · . . . . .cwcunnmssance, area m square 23,7 60 Reconnaissance parties, No. of...···...·.··.......··.··..·......·..·. 1· · _ · _ · · · · · · _ Base lines .....· _....... do . · . . . . · · . . · . . · . . · . · . . . . . . . . . . · . . . . . · . . · . 4 Preliminary base lines .... do · . . · . · . . . . . . · . · · · · . · . . . · . . · · · · . . . . . · . . · . 8 Base lines, length of, in miles. · · · · · . . · . · . · . . . . . . . · . · . . · . · · · . . . . · . . . . . 44! Triangulation, area in square miles ..·. _.·.·.................·.... __ ·.. 12,732 Extent of coast line ....··. - . - - .... _.···.... - . - .·.···.... _.··. - _... 554 Extent of shore line, reckoning bays, sounds, &c. _. _ ........·.·....... _. 4,831 ~ontal ang~es, ~tions, &c., No. of...···.··...... - .. - ... - . - - - - - . - - - · 946 V ~cal ~le::;, stc:t10ns ······· do . _··..· _···..... _.·.·.·.·.·.·.. _. . . 35 Tnangulauon parties _.····· _ . do _····....·....·...... - ..·... __ ..·.. ,·······.·.. _ Latitude stations .····..··..·. do .· _.·. - ···.···· - . - . - ··....... - .··. 30 Longitude stations ·..·.·.···.· do ...···..··.....·... - - - - - - - - - . - . · · - -1 . 18 Azimuth stations .. _...· _· _··· do .. _...·.··.. _.·..·.. - ...··.·. _ · . . . . 22 Latitude stations .. l extra ~ ··. do .·.·· - - - - - - - - - · - - · · - · · - · · · · · · · - · · · · 1· · - · · · · · · · · · Longitude stations. S ( -. -do .. - .· - - - · · · - · · · · - · · · · · · · - · · · - · · · · · · - · · · · · · · · · · · 1 Astronomical stations ·..··· _·. do . · . . · . · . . . · · · ·.· · · · · . · · · · · . . · . · · . · · · 38 Astron~mical .Parties ····.····. do ·.·...··..···.··.·..·...·.·.·· _.·..············ 1 Magnetic stat.Ions ..···.···..·. do .····.···...··.....· _...·.··.. _. · . · 97 Jdagneric parties .············ do ··.··················.················.········ 1

!

, - 3,280 - - · -36,680 -4 1 3 17! 2,097 305 902
157

1.

-I

13 18 6 2 4 2 6
7

6 13 81! 23,905 1,169 8,948 2,120 64
45 21 35

rr.i
t; ..
~;
0

co ..

54
106

6 9 4

....

~'

~-

APPENDIX No. o-Continued.
From 1844 to
1850.

Meteorological stations, No. of.............................. _ · ___ . _ · . . 11 Meteorological parties ·.. ~do ·..........·...··...··..·...·· _____ ...... _·. _. ___ . _ Topography, area in square miles .·..·..·..·......·.·.. _.··· _. __ . . . . . 3,107 · ~ength of .shore lin_e in miles .···..·........... _.·...· _·.·· _ . _ .··.· _. 6,00.5 . opograph1cal pru"tles, No. of. . . . . · . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . · . · . · . . . . . . · . Hydrography, area in square miles .·..·.···........·...........·. : · _: · - · "i6",i97" ~ydrographical parties, No. of.·..·..·.· _.. _...· _ . _ .···..· ____ ·...·. ____ ..· ydrography, number of soundings ....·.....·.. _..··..···.. ___ .... _. 1,216,o2ii · Gulf Stream, number of soundings for temperature ...... _............. 1,410 G~f Stream, number of fathoms line. · . . · · · . . · . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . . · . · · . 139,7 4 7 :p~4 stati~ns, temporary, No. of.····.. __ ...........·... _.......· _:. _. 60 T ~d:J sta~ons, permanent ·. do ..·.·...·.·..··. _·...···........·· __ . . . 61 CI parues..·...·..·.... do ...........·..·........ - · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - ..··. - ·· - · urrent Stallons ....·..... do.. . · · . . . . · · · . · . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . 293 ~urr~n t parties ...··...··· do . · . . . . . . . · . . . · · · · . . · . . . · . . · . . . . · . . . . . . . . · _·.....·.. pec1mens of bottom ......··....·..··.·.·.·.... _. __ ·.·..· _ . . . . . . . . . 4,3S4 Total number of manuscript maps .....·.··.·....·.. _·. _. _ .. ___ . __ . _. 337 Of_ t~ese, number prepared in office .... __ ._ ··..·· _.· _. __ ._ ...... ____ . 130 gng1~. topographical. maps, No. of. .·.·.··..··.·······..· _ ·.· _.... _. . 120 o?t.am1ng sheets .·.··· __ ....··. _···· __ ·.. _......·.·.·. _··. __ . · . . . . 155 irio~al charts ...·....··· __ .····. _·· __ ·.···...·. __ .·. __ . __ .. ___ · · . 84 up cates (charts) ······.············· _·····_ ···· _······ _ ·.··· _··· _. 3

Containing sheets . ····....·.·.·.·····..·.·.··.·············.······.
Records, triangulation, base, &c., No. of vols··..···.....·.··.·.··.·.··.. Astronomical observations .......... do .......... - ..·......·....·...·. Astronomical differences oflongitudes. do .....·....·..···....··...·..... Computations, geodetic ............ do .···....·......·.·..·..·......· Computations, astronomical. ....... do ...·...·.......·.........·..... ~Iagnetic observations ....··....... do ....····.....·..·...···..···.·. Magnetic computations .···........ do ..··.......·.·.·.·.··...···.... Geodetic books (duplicate) ...... -~ .do .·.··.....·....·.·.··.·.···..·· Meteorological books .·.·.......... do .·.··.·...........·.··...·.··.· Meteorological books (duplicates) .... do ......·.··.·............··..... Original hydrograpbical books, soundings, and angles, No. of vols......... . Duplicates of same .................................. do ...........· Hydrographic books, tidal and currentobserv's, and tidal reductions, No. of vols. Total records .........·....··......··...·....·. - ...... - ·... do - - . - . Volumes in the library .. _ .. _... _.... " -.................. ____ . do .... . Engraved plates of maps, No. of .. - . _..·.·... _... - ...·.· _··..·....· Engraved plates electrotyped . do ...·.··.·... _....................... . Pul>lisbed maps .·..·.·.···· do ...·...·.·.....·.........··....······ Printed sheets of maps .....· do ...·... - .......·........ - ...... - ..·.· Printed sheets of maps distributed, .·.·. No. of .·.. _ ·... - .·······.··... .Printed sh¥ts of maps, for sale by agents ·. do ····..... - ....·.. - . - ..·. Instruments, value of··...·.·.·...· -.·· -- ...... - - - - · · - · · - - - - - - - - - - · -

188 271 168 107 179 148 40 21 147 10 3 514 44

I

28 40 30 8 16 5 23

452 410 216 266 170 49 21 197 10 3 863 83 291 2,742 1,340 60 37 33 46,184 9,862 22,909 $162,491

......................

---·-------12

---------·-170
62
424 590 10 25 6 6,773 326 3,115 $4,652

rn

221
1,870 750 35 12 27 39,411 9,526 19,794 $157,893

. co ..
0
t':I

~

1~6

S. Doc. 8.
APPENDIX No. 6.

List of Ooast Survey discoveries and developments.
The true object of the survey is to furnish charts of the coast for purposes of commerce, and making known what was JJreviously unknown. In the course of preparing these, important iscoveries are made. 1. Gedney's channel into New York bay, having two feet more water in it than the old channels. Had the true depth of this channel been known in 1778, the French fleet under Count D'Estaing would have passed into the bay and taken the assembled British vessels. It is probable, from comparing the old and new charts, that this channel then existed. . ~. Blake's channel into the Delaware; open when the eastern channel is filled with ice. 'l'his discovery has already developed the resources of that part of the State of Delaware in a remarkable way. 3. Davis' South shoal, discovered in 1846, six miles south of the old ~antucket South shoals. This shoal lies in the track of all vessels bct~cen New York and Europe, and between New England and the southern States, or New England and South America. 4. Davis' Bank. · 5. Two feet more water in Mobile hay than existed six years ago. Mobile entrance has near 20i feet at low water. 6. Horn Islan<l channel, on the coast of Mississippi. 7. Blunt's channel, in Delaware bay. 8. Numerous rocks in Long Island sound nnd Martha's Vincyatd sound, and the various bays and harbors connected with them. 9. Two shoals north nnd east ot Nantucket, discovered in J847. 10. Six shoals near Nantucket, the outermost one 14~ miles from land and having but ten feet of water on it ; not marked on any existing chart. . 11. The remarkable increase of Sandy Hook, which has been traced from the surveys of the topographical engineers and coast survey. 12. The changes in the Delaware, near the Pea Patch. 13. A shoal at tho mouth of the Great and Little Choptnnk, in the Chesapeake bal.. · 14. McBlair s shoals, off Nantucket, in 1849. 16. Deeper water found on Diamond shoal, and a dangerous ninefeet shoal off Cape Hatteras, 1860. 16. Hetzel shoal, off Cape Canaveral, 1850. 17. New channel into Key West. 18. New channel into Charleston, with same uepth of water as the ship-channel, (Maffitt's channel,) 1860. 19. South channel of Columbia river, surveyed and rendered avail· able to commerce. 20. A channeltof 2z fathoms, upwards of a mile wide, distant 11 ' nautical miles from Bald Head hght-house, across the Frying Po.n shoals, Cape Fear, N. C., 1861. 21. A channel extending from 3 to 4 miles from the point of Cape

Fear to 8 to 'si f'rom it, with sufficient water nt low tide to allow ves-

aels drawing 9 to 10 feet water to cross with safoty · . 22. A channel at the distance of 14 nautical miles from Bald Head
light-house, one mile wide, with 3g to 7 fathoms water on it . .23, The Frying Pan shoals extend to the distance of 20 nauticql trules from Bald HeaJ light-house. 24. Sixteen, 17, and 18 foet water found nt the distance of 17 and 18 nautical miles from the Bnlcl Head light-house. . ' 26. Broad Sound channel into Boston harbor thoroughly surveyed, and marks recommended to facilitate passage through it, 1848:

APPENDIX No. 7.

Notes ef a discussion ef tidal observations, made in connexion with tl1c Co<Ut SurvC'y, at Cat island, in tltc Gulf c!f :Afca:ico, oy Pr(!fcssor A. D. Baclie, Su11crintendcnt of tltc Coast Survey. (Sec slcctclu:s H, Nos. 2 to 6 i1iclusivc.)

P. Patterson, United i;:itates navy, assistant in the Coast Survey. 'rhe observations ut Cat island, nt the entrance to Lake Uorgne, l.ouisiuna, and ut Fort Mor.gnn, ~t the entrunc.e !~ Mobile b~.y, ha.ve ~ndergone more than one d1scuss1on, the pecuhanties of the Udes gw~ng great interest to the observations · . 'rhe results, as obtained from u year's hourly observations, dn.y and ll1ght, at Cat island, will be given as far as obtained, the steps tnken for further progress stated, and the informntion which has been obtained ~om other sources, hearing upon this most intffesting problem of the tides in the Gulf of Mexico, will be briefly touche<l upon. . I hope, in .the. progress of th~i survey 11lo~1g ~his part of our co_nst, to develop the sul~iect of these tides, full of 1mportnnca to the Rav1gator, and of interest to the man of science. 'l'hcse tides, with special el:ceptions, eLb and flow but once in twenty-four hours. 'l'he tide-gauge was of the kind known as the box-gauge, with a float ~nd staff; gru<luu.tcd into foct und decimals of a foot. It was placed 111 the harbor of Cat islund, uear the light-house, nt the extremity of a te~porary wharf. · . T~e harbor, us the.Coa~t Survey chuit which .I now present to the · ~etmg shows, turns its widest and deepest openmg to the cast. A.ppurcnt time was given by n, mark, nn<l the observations were lll,ade at mean solar time by appl;ring the equations. 'f he time was of · l~ss consequence than ordinary m these observations, frorn ~he s~all · ~ise and fall of the tide, which prevented small differences of time from '-leing not~ceable by diflerences of rise and fo.11. Slisht incqu.alitics, cause~ chiefly by wind, were also found to affect the observations !JO · tnatenally that it was not deemed uclvisable to observe oftener tluin · <;ince th~ hour; and after atten~pting to deterx:nine the epoch of hi!{h

~llllne<liate direction of Lit.'utcnnnt Communding C.

.In executing the hydrography of the entrance of Mobile buy and of ~lssissippi sound, connected tidal observations were made under the

$.

D.oc. 8.

and ]ow water by more frequent observations, it was decided that emJs would probably be introduced by aiming at a degree of precision which the phenomena themselves did not present. The observations were made day and night, hourly, for a year, with exceedin~ly rare omissions, and, as the discussion has shown, with a. degree of faithfolness which merits very great praise. The observers were Messrs. Gustavus Wurdeman and R. 'I'. Bassett, attached to the coast survey. " · T be .general opinion of nautical men on the subject of theE1e tides is, that they mainly depend upon the action of the wind; and the very reeillar effect which may be shown to result from a discussion of the tides, in reference to the local action by the wind, lends plausibility to this generalization, which nevertheless is unfounded. · · 'fhe causes are of a much more general character, and such as usually influence.the tides, so modified as. to be difficult to bring out; phenomena which are only accessory in the ordinary discussions assuming here the chief and overruling part. The regular tabulation of the observations was made by Lieut. Oorl'lmanding C. P. Patterson, who did not fail to perceive that the ordinary methods of discussion of the tides were inapplicable. His remov81 from the survey on other professional service has devolved upon roe the labor of discussing the results. Their importance, interest, and novelty, so far as our coast and their striking peculiarities are concerned, have justified me in giving much time to the discussion, which has been carried on, uncler my immediate direction, by Mr. G. W. Dean, sub-assistant in the coast survey, and by Messrs. R. M. Bache, A. S. Wadsworth, jr., and W. M. Johnsoll· ] am indebted for the diagrams necessary to illustrate the conclusiOns already arrived at, to Messrs. Bache, Johnson, and Keyser. I present a part only of the labors of these gentlemen. The whole of the hourly observations for the year have been thrown into the forlll of curves, and numerous tables for examining and verifying the different hypotheses have been made by them. Though the subject was reached inductively, I do not propose to present it strictly in that form. 'fhe work even now is far from being complete : indeed, we have rather reached the true method of discussion, than have completed the d~s.cussion ; and we may yet have to modify our hypothesis, though' l think not materially. I present it to the association as a work in JJTO' grcss. When the investigation for this station is made complete, the application of the methods to the other stations on the Gulf of Mexico will be in a degree mechanical. . It is curious that one among the earliest complete series of tidal observations on record, is of tides ebbing a.nd flowing but once in twenty' four hours: . Tpe observations \vere mu.de by Mr. Fran?is Davenport, at Batsha, of the tides on t.he bar. of Tonqum, an? commumeated to Dr. Hedley, who gave t!iem, wit~ fl; d1~gram c?nnectmg the phenomena with th~ moon's motion m the ecliptic, m the thuteenth volume of the Philosopbl"' · cal Transactions for the year 1683. Newton explained these tides b:f his lunar theory, but in a ?'ay, as appears to me, to leave it doubtful whether.he supposed the mterfcrence. of two ordinary or six-hour tides to produce the pnenomena. These tJ.des have been referred to since,

~d~1$.

~y al.moist e\!'ery writer of note,. who bas .given a
. .

general theory of the

. ' The subject of the diurnal inequality of the tides has been so com· Jt.lete~y an.cl ingc-m~ou~ly 4i~~u~se,d .~Y. l\fr: .Whewell, .M~ster o~ Trinity, w1at lt· may· be said emphatica.lly·to be 'lus· owh. · 'He first pomted out the empfr1cal law of ,variation of this inequality. The first distinct at· :rnpt to· traoe the cause·of;·apparent~ebb and How once in twenty-four ours to the influence of the diurnal inegularity, is also, so far as I ~~ow, his. Jn discussing (Phil. T1·ans. for 1837, Part I) the tides at lngapore, where ·the · diumnl inequality is very large, he was led to the condusion, if carrie<l a little further, "at a cel'tuin stage of it the · dlternate tides would vanish." To this effect he attributed the " singleay tides of King George's sound, on thA coast of New Holland, as Qbserved by Captain Fitz Roy," and l?ives the curves for a week's ob~rvations on the diagram accompanying his papers. The prog1-e'ss .of ~le:diumal inequality wave along the const of Europe fo:rms a.11 inte... ~sting part of Mr.· Whewell's labors, the conclusions of which are given 1 "-.the same volume of the Philosophical Tmnsactiom1. · _Lln all these cases,· however, there are twotides·in the course of the ~y, so as to bri.ng out the diurnal inequality by the comparison of the. ~0nsecutive high or low water. 'l'he subJcct is followed up in the ~e'le~th serie~ of tidal resea~ches by Mr. Whewell.' nnd in the appendi~.1 ~'Which the dmgmm of ~he tides of Petropaulofsk, !n the bay of Avatch_,,, · :!l.mschatka, appronchmg very nearly, o.t certain parts of the lunar : 0.D;th, to the order of single-day tides, is given, to prove that the diur· Bl..inequnlity may be so lw:ge "as to lead to the appenbnce of onl~ ~e tide in twenty-four (lunar) hours." 'l'be equations of the diurnal lt)C). semi-diurnal tide·wuves are given in this paper, and the wave pr<r, ~llced l>y certain cases of thefr interference is discussed. (Phil. '!'rans. {01'1840.) ~;1 do not pretend. to give such notice of these important.papera ns Qbuld be necessary in u formal communication. Unquestionably the W~er'lations now under examination would have furnished to Mr. th0 ewellonly the means of trying ideas and consequences flowing from ~ &<:. Which 'have been already discussed. by him; yet the forms of dis· . ln &81on are original, and perha.ps new, and the conclusions p1-esent so ·el Uch ()f novelty, that dley remain to be fully put to the test by more ~borate discussion, and by bringing the results at other pluces to bear -l'~n the same question. I nm forced, by the necessity fur brevity, to a. reference to the learned, ingenious, and elaborate paper of Mr· in the Philosophical Transactions for 1848. · Qt} he.small rise·~d fall of th? ti~es, amounting.on the avern~ to but tinefoot, Would .seem to make it difficult to .obtnm the luw of the·pbe· "atpena, even with the aid of the most careful o.nd t1·uthful oti@er-lQ!:.Ons-the.cla.ss to which those under discussion have proved to heh: --e· In ,regard ~~th· to ti~e. and height, 'Ye may e~pect to ~~ baffled 0: ..sma!l 1r~gulnriues, requmng long contmunnce of obs~rvauons und "Vli'}(:P.ar1sons of:m~D;ns to get r!d. of: '~h';ls for fow case~:have occurred ... lQh <lo not exb1b1t more str1kmg comc1denoes than diff'erences. t:til\ To a.how the. ti~e of high ?r low wa~er in ~11oh a \V~Y that the dis~ · ~n might be rea.dily:generalized, the diJstams, of wb1ch a specimen 9

tt . f'

D ·. ,.., S, :.. .OCi. Q:.·
ie before. the· associa~on, were made, (Pl. 3, or 11.No. 2.) The hou~ ol the day are the ordinates, and the days of the month the abswssal.l The signs Hand' L show in their.proper place the !lour, of oceurrenceQf hi~h.and low.w,ater for.e~~ d.ay~ ... The.time of th~ moon~s-superiot'. tr,ansit is.marked; and the penods of .greatest declmatmn, and of. cros&-: ing the equator. . The result is easily. generalized, that tliere is ordina'."'' rily but one high and one low. water at Cat island in twenty-four (lunar}~ bours, and that when there are two tides they occur about ·the time ol; the moon's crossing the equ'ator, and are. usually most .regular andt strongly marked when in syzigies, w.ith declination nearly zero. Fol-;· k>Wing one set of high and low: waters, it will be found that they oocur 1 later and later as the lunar day gains .on the solar, with very remark..· . able differences, of which the explanation will be. given towar.ds the! pe}'.iod of small declinations. The intezyal '.from high to low water is1 generally less by some.hours than .that from low to high. That as the'· moon.approaches the equator; there are a few: days of singular double! tldes,,or of single tides, in which the times from low to high water aret very much increased. That when the declination changes its name, a· high tide.takes nearlyr,the place· of a low in time, and vice ver,ya,.with a~ ipterval of irregularity; or, in other words, the tides are displaced, by1 nearly twelve hours. · . . · 2. There is, as :Mr. Whewell has remarked, no proper establishment' to btt derived from such tides ; yet, we may obtain a desirable datmtit by throwing the results into the form of tables, in which the !uni-tidal!. intervals are arranged according to the <lays from the zero of declinML tion and the cbrres.Ponding superior and inferior.transits, and for nottb1 . and south declinat10ns. This will be made more clear by subsequr,n1 1 explanation.. These afford a test of.the theory of these tides by show~' ing the displ~cement of the ordinate of hi$h and low water, and migbt 1 be used for t~e. inve,rse purpose of formmg prediction tabl~s. Suc)l; tables of lum"'~1 al mtervals for three months I now submit. The)" sho~ considera .l~ st.eadiness and si~il~rity of intervals towards the', ma.x1mum of d clmations and great variations near the zero, and greater: discrepancies than is u~ual in ordinary tides. 'rhese are from a seriei of tables .computed by :Mr. R. :M. Bache for the year, and containiQlJ~ th~ times. of .high and low water, deduced from the daily curves, ~ 1 readings of the gauge, the rise and fall of the· tides, the times of tb61 moon's ·superior and inferior transit, and the moon's declination. ·' The. inte..rvais serve to show that the high water belongs alternauM~: to the superior and. inferior transits of the moon, according as tbCJ mooi:i's dec,in~tio~ is .north or s~u~h, ":ith a fow cases only whiclt· admit of c1~u0t_; Two sets of lum-t1dal mtervals were computed (see tables) for t~ree months, to ascertain the proper epoch of reduction, ·or,i age of" th~ tide. In one ,case; the ii;itervals were referred to the sup~"; rior transit of o~e day before; and m the other, to the superior t1'8Jts1t, of .two days betore. The sq~ate of the discrepancy of the mean in.tP.,; latter case was greater than m the former. An establishment deduce~'. trom these numbers for high-water, without correction would have:~'' pr~l;>ab.le error, as tried ~y·disc:repancy from the mean, of ne~ly eightff1 f0ij1· minutes. I have little doubt of bemg able to reduce this error,.l:>Y. computa~ion, much within the limits of observation, so as .to give uset1il'

.P):ediction t~~les. 'rhe. for~going res~lts. p~int distinctly to a ruli~~: icause depertdmg upon· the moon's decimation. . .... · . : 3. The. h~mrly ~Qservations for. the year were thrown into the fo~m: of. curves;_the ab.scissas representing the houi·s~ and the 9rdinates ~~·· l~e1ghts. · Of these, I present, as.characteristic, the morit~s. of Jan~aryt and.March, (Pl. 4, o, or :El, Nos. 3, 4~ In January the tides are.smgl~r td:ht·o~gh~ut the m?nth, the rise and [all dimi11ishirig towards ~he ze1'ti C?f. tr.ech0;auon ;. and m M1uc11, two pei·~od~ of inarked. double tides occ~~. fh~ tunes of new .and full· moon com~1~e nearly with ~!1e zero of dec~-1 nation of. March; .m January tlie syz1g1es occur at. times of greates~ ~eclination. A series of diagrams, prepared for periods of declina~ii;>n1 ~ro, show irregularities, or double tides, near .these times. Befo~i dhlsilppearing, the tide which is lost appears rather''as an irregulal'i~ ~!an as a real tide! P}JZZling to th~ observer, and a s~ver? test .ofJi'~~ 'Q.l~fulness. A similar set of d10~ams for the periods C?f greatest ~eclination show uniformly .single tides and ,th~ ~reate~t COnlJ?tt~atiy~ ~~e and fall at the same permcls, whether comcidmg with syz1gies or, ~th first .and last quarters. In computing the heights of spring 8;~~, d~ap tides by the common methods, four months gave zero or negatrve lfferences. . ·· "To discuss the ~pochs of the phenomena, as compared ~~h great~~t'. a.n~ lea.st declinations, I prepared two sets of tables, which requ~~' r~\'tsion. They show sometimes an actual coincidence in the epocp'c:if 31.1.st tides and zero of de~lination-sometimes a p_receden~c:i and· s?uitf:' Illes a subsequence-wb1eh, when not caused by megular1ty of wmds;, 1 ; believe will fh~d 11 sati~factor.y explanation; a~ 11 m~an, ther.e W8:,S· ntJe advantage Ill the dl!!CUSSlOll found from d1splacmg the epocn. ';J{h~ average rise and fall for the second day before the greatest decliO: ~hon was 1.68 feet; for the day next preceding the greatest declina~. 0n· 1.78; for the day of greatest declination 1.81; for the next. ~Y' l.86 ; and for the next 1.77. Tracing a curve from these wowd·: ~\re the epoch of greatest rise and fall about 0.76 days after the great::.· i ~t..declination. T!1e ll:verage rise and fall on the corresponding ilats,~ ~ t,eference to declma~10.n zero, were 0.96 feet, 0.7?, 0.60, (dee. ~ero,). th .3, 0.73, the ~un:e g1vmg the epoch about oue-s1xtl.1 of a. ~a.y afte~; tlie zero of dechnat1on ... The num1?ers, as stated, r~qmre re".'1s1on; a~~~ e~~:. ar~ causes for .apparent displacement, wh1<.:h require further· ,,, . inaoon. . . a~~ ..This general examination tends to P.oint to the diurnal irregul!lrity;.: cl.a. '. 1: Whewe~l has st~ted! as the cause of the occurre~ce ~f these smgle7, b~Y·.t1des; ~view w}uch is confirmed by such examinations as I ha.Ye: th en able to'make of the hourly tidal observations at Fort Morgan,·~~· bee entrance of Mobile bay. '!,he interference in this case would,o~· all~\yhen t~e. diurnal ti~e:wave,, which represents t~e diurnal. ine<lU:il.¥tY~ ·· Pro t e ordinary sem1-dmmal wave; whether this wave has.a.regular Wa~~ess along the poast, independently of the semi;.diur.11al ~ave, as l4c'':~tfir~t s'1PP~'~d by Mr. Whew ell,, o~ whe~h_er. its· :P~~~q~ena ·are. i t~~~'·!ls.he ha~.s1q~e been led, fro~ ~1s ~nvest;taa~iqn~".,tc:> bel~ev~. ,}t.;i ~ .. 0~s~fved wave is ~roduced by its mterference wifli. a semi-diurnal: "':e,-hwe· crur only stuay t~e ·p~enomena to ach~~~tfi§eaffer the observe'd ·' e. as :been separated 1nto it' components. · ··

f

J

6

. o. As a first approximation, I assumed the two ·waves to be governecl by the law, of sines, and then determined the curve which would result: from the superposition of two such waves, having the same or different drigins. The mean of the regular double tides, about tbe' zero of'clecli.:nation, would present a first approximate value of the rise, anfl/all 16r the semi.:diurnal tides, and the.mean of double and single tides, at the ' maximum of declination, would, e!pecially when near' the quadratures, giv~ :a first .approximation to the he,1ght of the diurnal tide; .. The comparisons with the forms of curves already traced, addressing the eye, are easily made. . . . ;; ·;J;present, herewith, diagrams (Pl. 6, or H No. 6) for the case, in which the maximum of the diurnal tide coincides with that of the semi-diurnal; i~ three hours in advance, (or coincides with mean water falling,) si", hours (or coincides with low water,) and nine hours, (or coincides with. the· second mean, or mean water rising,) using the approximate quan-" tities referred to above for the greatest height of two component curves; It requires little examination to see that neither of the first.three forms · represents the case., and that the fourth does so remarkably, even in ~hat appear to be .small irreguluritie~ i~ the d~ily curves. 'fhis will be'.Jleen in the results·for October, of which a diagram on a large scal& 1 is,~sented, givin~ the tidal curves near tbe zero, aud thence up to the maximum of decimation, for the first half of the month. In the singleday tides there was the same slow rise compared. with fall; shai·p rise and.fall near high and low water, with the tendency to a stand during. tne:t"ise; the same excess in the interval of time from low to high water,, over that from high to low water. This hypothesis as to the position ot the two waves may perhaps be slightly improved by further discussion· Itis ,obvious, from the equation of the curve, (which I have already :referred. to, as given by, Mr. WheweU,) that the form and position of remarkable points will vary with the constants in the component curves,, as well as with 'the position of the origin of each in reference to that of. ·the other. · · . ., · To carry out the representation grap~ically, lhave drawn the curve,EI ·. >tm fbur values of the constants of the diurnal and semi-diurnal, formed, .ft.om the observations with the same displacement of nine hours, mu~ time of high water of the diurnal curve, and corresponding. 'to.; the> epoch~ 4:>f the maximum .declination, two, four, and six days befor~~ or,after the maximum. 'fhese show the general features of the curv~i ·~ffi.ci~dyf aud the va.riations in the times and height~, t~e pa.ss1:1-$C.,,:, 'from Sln~le'.t.o ,double tides, and the reverse; and th~ comc1dence w1i)l 1 observations is such as to warrant a close numerical discussion. ; '· . 6. The e9.uation of the curve shows how much the time of high anclJ low water depends on the constants in the diurnal and semi-diurn!f!;; curve, ·· · · · :.. ·The equivalent of the equation given bJ Mr. Whewell isC. co~ 2t+D co· (t-E)-y=O,
in which t is the time in hours from the place of the maximum ordiru:i.~' ';0fthe semi·iliurnal curve as an origin; C is the constant ·or that curV:e. .P[ '~; Eis~ distance of the maximum ordinate of the diurnal,~~~;

s: Doc.

3.

1aa

to!. the former, and D the constant for the curve of sines; y is the,9rdi:.< . laate of the complex curve. . · . ~y an easy transformation, this takes the form.2 C. cos 2 t+D.cos t. cos E+b. sin t. sin E....;C-y. For E=9 hrs. Cos E=-sin E=-v'i, and y=2 C cos 2 t+D sin E (sin t-cos t)-C · .The differe1\tial co-efficient of which for the case of the maximum or
tn1nirnum is~t
J ..

~y . -4 C cost·. sin t+D sin E (:in tf.cos. t)=O
'

·

:Y-

cos t D sin E D v'i ·Qr, 1ince t1te second term is negative when t>G hours, 4C . . eosec. t-sec t=D v'f .. ApPlying this to the four case11 shown in the diagramssin t

_1_+_1_=

4C

= 4C,

e.l\t.'t>~~t of cit~ curve,.:b~l~w the mellil level 1:wing ·syrnrnetnca.l ~1~h the· ei.i r~ ' fron thr~e ~ tune hours, the ordma.tes o~ .the sem1-dmmal ia~ ..a.s subtractive; fro"? nine to fift:ee~ hours ad<!1~ve. The mean . :\\rill e ;a·erage. between 1ngh and lorN water. The tides of each da1 a.ve the wrms of the component curves, beginning with the mean~

:;=9 hours, C=0.176, D=0.700, we find maximum at ······. 10 26.4. =0.6M 10 33.S =0.400 10· oi.1 .,, =O.lli7 11 66.8 ~~·for the intervals between high and low water ill lunar hours, . · 0.9.2m., Sh. 63.4m., Sh. 17 .Sm., and 6h. 06.4m. (If :We might apJ?.lv this mode to tes~ the hyP,Ot~esis, using for the values t~ C the linlf d1i.ferehee of the ordutates of llllX and twelve hours from· · ~ e mean, and of eighteeR and twenty-four hours with the sign& hh~ged; and for D, the average of tl1e ordinates of six and eighteen '<i~~rsJrom the first mean. 'rhe means present the best criterion, be-: ti~~= not d.isplaoecl in this combination, as the equation shows. ']'.his ~~.of proceeding, however, throws the test too much on the weak ~;rt ·of the results--the times of ooctmence of high and low water, 0t· h })l.ean water-at11.d does not take all the points of tbe curve; and: l . ave, therefore, preferi·ed ·a diff'ereRt form of discussion. . th~' :Placing the maximum of the semi-diurnal curve at 0 hours,·in1 'llc}e h,-pothesis thatthe high ·water·of the diurnal curve is nine hours in1 <>t~a..taJ:'.~ ~fthat of the semi--dlumo.l c~l·ve, the two.~~rves cross the lin~· <ii~an Water at three houn, the diurnal curve rising and the sem1tri:~11I falling; .n.t six ~ours, ,the semi-di~rn!11 curve. hns. reached· its\ W" . . 1rnurn, and .rises a~n at nme hours to its intersection with the· meafit th~~~·li;riet at.which time t~e 4iurnal curv~ has reached its ma.ximu.rr* il'le se~1-d111.rne.l curve attams its greatest 119e at twelve hours, andil:b&' PoifUt · evel .~t. lit'teen; the diumal curve also descending to the s~e· -&.at. that tilhe. . · .. . bi'.· ~thin these two intervals ·from mean level to me~n level, the com... th~f:t~ons ctf ~:9l'dinaties forming the actual tidal curve·~ .exha~sted ;:

t''.

,

e

.
hn.

min., ·

m

.~dl ending "'.ithfitX,,co,nsidering .~s oe ow the axis 0 · " ' '' .

'

~ymmetrical .tpe :par.JS abov~ a#4
' . ' ; ' .

the. mean ~f the P,re~~ding. arid·, su~cee.di~g low·. wat,er and of the high-water which it includes, and ihat'below to the mean.of the two high 13.nd of one lo:w-water. From three to nine hours, the differ~n.ce of the ordinates giving .the actuaJ curve, and from fifteen .to nine 1i.b.'the reverse order, the sum of the same ordinates, half the sum of the two series of ordinate's gives the value of the ordinates of the semidiurnal curve. The same .being repeated with the ·second branch of the curve, th~ avei;age ;will give two results for e.ach day's ·o?servation· · The case given m the table on the board, for March 6, will serve to illustrate the simple nature of this method of proceeding. 'I1he mean ordinate for the first .and second branches of the curve httvipg "been obtained, the hourly' observation which coincides most nearly with it having been found before and after high-water, the hourly ob· servations. B:l'e arraI)ged fron;i .it f9rwards for seven hours (m,) and back. wards for sev~n (n.) The same is done fqdc>w-water (m' ancl n'.) The :half sums and'ilalf differences are taken in each case, and then the means·. ,The computation of the ~iui;nal curve is !Dade in the upper part of the iahle, and that of the semi-diurnal curve m the lower part. The nulll" per representing the mean level is eliminated by the mode of taking P.ie means in each table, and the ordinates below the axis are treated if having the sam,e si$fi as those above. 'rh,e semi-diurnal curve i$ iurn ...ed ov~r on its maximum ordi.nate? and the mean valu~ of a single 1;:1,i;i.p.ch of it found. Then each curve is reduced to zero, m the mean ~eyel of the period. The last 'two columns of the'upper and lower parl . pi thP. table contai1l, respectively, the curves of sines corresponding to ~h~ diu.rnaJ. and setl1i-diurnal curves. 1n the case show,n in the first diagram, the ordinates of the semi-di,u;rnf,Ll ~u~ve from mean: wa.ter to high-water, and corresponding nearl,Y' Jo a m1mmum of decimation, and new moon, are o.oo feet, o.OSr :+ 0.03, 0.06, 0.04, - 0.02, 0.02. The moon's declinatio~ during the period being about from 2° 64' S., to 1° 46' S., this curve pliyiously contains a residual of the semi-diurnal curve! not taken o.ut; ~.u~ s,upposing it to be deduced from a just mean, the correspondio1 ,;irdinates of a semi-diurnal curve, calculated with 0.04 feet as the i:naJ'J~ m:um, would be o.oo feet, Q.Ql, 0.02, 0.03, 0.03, 0.,04, 0.04, difforingr .0;t tJie ~ost, 0.06 ofa foot, or about three-quarters of an inch, and, in ii. /Jmgle instance, the sum of all the six differences being .03 feet, and :~bq p.verage .0~4:. . . . , · ,The ordmates of the semi-diurnal curve are 0.00 feet, 0.14, o,g8i .Q.~2. The cu"'.'e of ~ine$ computed with the greatest ordinate baJ1 in this case, for its corresponding ordinates, 0.00 feet, 0.16, 0.28, Q,89J cJijl'ering but .02 re.et at tlie greatest. ·, At the next period of. declination, nearly ~ero and full moon .jn,tb~ }nOnth of March, the ordma.tes of the diurnal curve ded.uced are P:e;i ':;;~.'.~~.'.. 0.06. I 0.06, 0;06, o.os; 0.06, Q.O.!J, and. the correspond~tlg ~OlJ).PU,r . · J)!'c.Una.tes o.OQ feet, 0.02, 0.04, Q.06, 0.07, 0.09, o.O.~h <11ftermg at~~ gr.e,atest·o.oa feet, ancl on the average, 0~004 feet, the observei;J.,o~

In tabulating, the branch above the axis should be referred to

l 1t1 +·f}

and

as

+

+

+

+

s. Doc. a.
:-Qate being this time il). excess, as it wits before in: defect. The .ordinates of the semi-diurnal curve ore 0.00 feet, 0.12, 0.22, 0.26, {U.ld the ·icol1lputed ones 0.00 feet, 0:13, 0.24, 0.26, the greatest 4ifference being ~Q.02 feet, and the average 0.007 feet in excess, as was the former · . · For March. 1.2,,,cor.r,espoocling~to ..theimaximum,of tlie diurnal curves, 'll:lld to ·neap, tides, (one . day after last quarter,) the ordinates of the :boudy di:u1'nal· curve from· mean ·to h.i$h:-wat~1;, are 0.00 feet, 0;21, 0:36, ·0.01" 0;63,· 0.69, O. 71, the·corrcspondmg orc.Jmutes of the curve of smes ~eing o.oo feet, 0.18, 0.36, 0;63, 0.69, o. 71, in which the greatest difference .a ls 0.03 feet, and the mean 0.007 in the curve computed from ohser.Vation. The ordinates of the semi-diurnal curve are each zero. Two :<lays afterwards, viz: March 13, gives for the diurnal curve, o.oo feet, ~·1~, 0.34:, 0.4:7, 0,61, 0.68, 0.74, corresponding: to ~hich. is the curve ()f srnes, 0.00 feet, 0.18, 0.37, O,l>l, 0.63, 0.72, 0.74, m which the greavlest difference is o.04: feet, and the mean - 0.02 f~et, the curve of ob-: ~ervation .having the least ordinates. The semi~diurnal curve is 0.00 feet, o.oo, 0.03, 0.02. . · · '. .The average of three months taken by weeks,. gives, for the mean ·. tCU1·ve and. curve of sines, the following table :

+

DIURIU.L CURVE.

IEMl·DlURl!AL OUl\Vlio

'

'

,.

Prom observation. \

Of sines.

Difference. From observation,

or ainoa.

i__
liour.r.
Fut.

Feet.

Feet.

0 ... l
·~

3. 4.

0
G

0.0() 0.17 0.32 0,4:3 0.62 9.66 0.68

0.00 0.16 0.30 0.4:2 0.62 0.68 0.60

0.02 0.02 0.01 o.oo 0.02 0.02 0.01

0.00 0.04: 0.07 0.08

0.60 0.04.

o.p7 o·ps

Sum ············
'-....
\

I

.

·· These results ure shown by a. curve in the diagram herewith pre-+ ~llted, (PL 7, or H. No. 6,) on tho full scale, the greatest ditler~~ce, be~ween the curve from the o?eerv~tion and the curve of the .s1pd e~ug less than a quarter of an mch m the mean, deduced from ~~ ~0nths' observations. Whether this will· disappear in the m~' .UI ~ore observations, or whether a modification of the hypotheB;is~Of .a 1 ~ .Pac~ment of nine hours must be made to meet it, furtherQo1,DputaUo~s ~PW ·t~_pi'Ogress will show. · · . . . '. ·· ' e.·. When this:a.ualysis has been made as comple~. $l; possible, ancl .ft.~eli~d.. die year's. observations, it Will remairf·tO Wte up the tw· ~~~~ :il)to~'"\yhich 'hriv:e <li.vided the ol.1$e-t.V&tions, .and to di~oii~~ ~ ·n~we'ncally m. de~fas./w.e h~v&: bl:lretefure done, generally:, iS

to

.we

.regard to the luiow"n. Jaws, of the", diurnal irregtilarity1 and of thtt" or:dinary tides. · . Each .determination gives a corresponding value of the ·maximum, or of. the ordinate of high water., and in the case of the mean of the curves for January, Febmary, and March, these maxima are (),,66. feet, 0.65, Q..P,Q, ().·60,. O.os, o.os. · Mean· 0-.61 feet, differing .O:lof a foot<from the · maximum found directly from the observations, and if tme .discrewncie& . . . ,a.,:i;~,;.a~~identiil, gi~!ng a, mean pr,ob~ble er.r?r. th~ ira:rii;tti9ns from .the ,, ~verage of 0.02 feet (one-quarter of an: mch of .any one of the de. terminations, and for the mean, 0.01 feet near :y. · · 9. Bv the kindness of Colonel Abert, of the topographical engineers, of Mojor Bache, of the same corps, and of Lieutenant Maury, superintendent of the National Observatory, I have been put in possession of .tidal registers which have bPen kept during tbe progress of the local .surveys made of harbors on the coast of tbe Gulf of Mexico. 'I'bc tided. ob£1ervations of Major Bache, United States topographical .engi~ers,. flit Key West and the Tortugas, are thQ most complete of this se1i'les, a:na sbow,.as a ge,neral phenomenon, the :prevalence of the semi-diurnal Wf.!.ve at that point. I have not yet lia:d the o.Pportunity to examine fully these results, which are, however, under discussion.

b[· .

APPENDIX No. 8.

M.ethod used in tlte Coast Survey ef showing the results ofc?trrent ob1enation1, · by Projcssor A. JJ. Baclw, S1tperinttmdcnt.
Thi.s method, while it is origina.1 1 may not be new, though J am not aware that the system has been followed by others. It has some analogies-with the representations of ·Berghaus, but is different essentially from them. The principle, and an application to the very elaborate· current observations. made in Boston harbor, under the immediutedirection of Lieut. Charles H. Davist' by Lieut. J .' N. Maffitt, are shawn in the diagrams now presented tu the. Association. / · ; Observations 6f the. direction and velocity of the currents.at and be· . low the surface have been extensively introduced into the hdrography of' t~~ ~oast survey ; their importance needs no remark. For most of tM details. of arrangement and suggestion in regard to the earlit'lr observations, I am indebted to my brother, t:he late Lieut. Geo. M. Bache, U. S. N.; for much of the success of execution to Lieuts. Charles H:.. Davis and Carlisle P· Patterron, U.S. N., who have taken unwearied pains in the-matter. For currents below the surface there is still wanted 'some sure and easy method of determining both direction and velocity1 especially the lattel' elements. · . · Observations being multiplied at,different periods of the current, frolll slack-water to slack-water, they are projected upon diagrams,. showing at a: glanee the direction and velocity at any particular station. 'Jl'he ~V~fp.ge oithe results is usually. obtained by inspection. Dividing the 1nte@~ between slack-waters mto quarters, we give the mettn resu~t· ..fo.r.,t.;p~odsdn a table, and place. usually. upon· ihe '1han ai·.i:owtt

!odicatingthe'direction or set, and write at the ex~mit;r, numb~~s showJng the velocity or rate miles pe1· hour. Jn case of the observati011s ~ado in Boston.harbor, the results .are .so unusally 11umel'ous tlla~'.~e · Jines of direction were confUsing to the eye, and the connexion between 1 le ;esults was very difficult to. seize, though from the pains taken, the lilotion of the water was trllceahle in nearly all its peculiarities, from the entran~e through the to~tuous passages among the islands, alternately narrowing and expanding to .the. city wharves. . ' , In the cmTent cliart now brought before the Association, the direction· ab! force of the currents are represented by lines, the distance bet"'een w. t<::h is inversely as the rate m miles per hour. The scale was ob:.. tained by.making th. e least velocity correspond to nearly half an inch, a~d the greatest to 0.06 of an inch. The reciprocals of the number df lillles per hour are represented by tenths of inches in the diagram, currents ofo.2, 0.6, 1, 1.6, 2 miles per~hour being represented by lin¢s ~arull~l to ~heir directions, and distant 0.6, 0.2, 0.1, ?·67, 0.0o of an in~h. ~e chart 1s on a scale of :rn1:m · The representation on one of the dta;. grams co1'responds to the jto<XJ,, and in the other to the ebb, referring to tbe motion of the current from slack-water to slack-,vater. If the current stations were very numerous, the straight lines tangent to the curves of motion of the water. (set of the current) would become curves· .It is easy for the navigator to seize the relations of the currents he Will meet, even by these tangent lines, to avail himself of the knowledge this imparts of the direct, lateral, and eddy currents; to avoid dan. ger or secure advantage. The cause of the chan~e, of dfrectioris and velocities is in most cases \V~U marked, the generalization presented to the eye being connected W1th the form and position of the land above or below the water. In ·some cases the chart indicates that the observations sqould be repeated; ~nd in others that, numerous as the Eltations are, they should still b.e ~creased in number. Its adoption will probably thus react, to improve e observations upon which . it is founded. .

in

'

APPENDIX No. 9.
·lleport ef Professor O. M. Mitchel, Director of the Cincinnati Observatory, .· .t~ the Superintendent of the Coast Survey, on a new method of 1-CCOrding ,: differences ef nortli polar distancc1, ot· declination, by clcctro-mt1gneti#n·
~unt. of the new methods of astronomical observation m use ·at:the lncinnad. Observatory : partly because the subject was co~sti,J.ntly

. .D:iu.n. Sra: I have delayed thus fa.r sending you anf detailed: a~

dev.elopin.g ..by n.·ew experiments, and .partly bec.ause at t.h·e···. N··.e . . H,aven .. ~~eting. or tile American Association for the Advanc~m~e:~{),.f Sfae~ce, t. is suijject1 at t:nY request, was referred to· a.· comm1tt~e,1,ttr exmnmation. 'l'be .repo:rt of this committee having now·. ·ade, and the \\'h.?le subject having assumed (by anotheryea,r '· . ation nnd ex· penment) a more defin.it·e·..a,n.d .po·s.it.·iv .e .... fo.tm· .. '. now proper to present ;some .general .featutes ..,.of. thi& '. new~mtth some results ah:eady
Yl·,·

;S·.Doc. ,,,.
.reached, and ~he pro~able appli<(atig~s w ~icb reJn~~Ltt> be made when .suitµ.ble'instrurnehts sh&.11 ha~e been P.rovided for the purpose ·. ·: ·0bse..Versare well aware of .the differen.ce between observQ.tions fc.µ,rig4t ascension ~nd d~clination. I~ the first the principle ?f repetition .has peen e~tensively mtroduced, .with the best results ; while as to the .9ther, reliance is mainly ,Plac.ed o~ th~ acc.uracy of a single bisection of t4e. star observed on one. declination .Wlre. Mqre. than ·two ·yea~s since a plan had be~n execu.ted by myself, and applied to practice. :in .the Cincinnati Observatory, by which, on the same night, during .one ,and. the same transit, a star or other heavenly body could be observed ,on ten declination wires, wit.hall the precision.due to a single observa tion by the old methods. More tqan a year has el11psed sinc.e I pre· · sented to the American Association .some three thousand observations, .taken in twelve nights by the new apparatus (a number exceeding the recorded observ.ations of a whole year at one of the oldest European observatories.) Each of these observations presented an accuracy supe· .rior to those obtained by the old methods. · . This .astor,iishing rapidity and accuracy gave. rise to a debate, and, ,finally, tq·the. appointment of the committee above ruluded to. A mul· .titµde of observations have been mad~ .during the past year, (and in accordance with the request of the chairman of this comnutteEl,) varied, with ,a view to test in every way the powers of the new machinery· .The results, as will be seen by examinmg the report of the committee, . .were entirely satisfactory~ · It is proper now to state, that by the new inyention, the transit instru.. m,ent is converted (at trifling expense) into a declinometer, or instru· ment for measuring N. P. D., or declination. The observer is re· leased from the necessity of reading a divided circle, and the position of his instrument at the moment his star is· bisected . by the declination wire, is, by a single touch, engraved on metal, and stereotyped, to be read tin4 examined when convenieqce may permit. On the swifte~t moving stars, tfn bisect!ona are r~adily accomplishe~ and engraved m the space of a smgle mmute of time, ahd at a maximum hour angle of only thirty secondtl .of time.. These rec:ords are now made on a circumference whose diameter is nearly twelve feet, and finally read up by a micr9mcter of as ~reat perfection as can be applied to the measurement of any minute distances. The instrument used µius far j.s ·11 transit by Dollond, the llrope1ty of the United States Coast Survey, ~nP.furQished by the Supermtendent of that work. .lt is of old construct10n.,. about five feet focus; and althou&'b .the definition of its object-glass is satisfactory, yet the optical pow.ens low, and a bisection by it is far inferior to one. made with a pow.erful object-glass; 'rhe µew machinery attached to this transit, to c9nvert it into a declinometer, was made in the observal;qry by rny assistan~ and myself, and is, of f<>.ursE), comparatively rougli. The micrometer was made in this city, ~cl· although of workmanship hi~hly credi,table to the artist, yet, as i~ JS the first ever constxuct~d ?n tliis p'an, ll has. been found compD.l111'! f,ively defective, and quite incapab~e of detecting with certainty thtt ~ipµtequantities whicli have beenprese~ted for its examinl:ltion. P~t':" baps·,~o m~crometer bas ever been su. bm1tted to such severe tests.. . , · Thu· fa.r'iq the application of the new methods, niy examfoati9,~

.have been confined. to zones·not exceeding twenty·fiive degrees.in width. /]here is no difficulty, however, iµ extending these researches throug}l '.the entire;heavens; and co111prehending on the same night the entir:e ·1sweep of·the·meridian from' north to sciu1:h. · · In case a known cil,talogue is undt;)r review, the amount of work dQt;1.~ 'during the .night will depepd ···solely· on· the rapidity with· which the :finders of the telescope can be 'set. If we allow for ea.ch star ·three .minutes,. (which, with an assistant to set, has been found sufficiept,)·we have without difficulty two hundred observations .on twenty different :objects within the hour, and for a night's work of five hours, one thou:~and wires or observations recorded on one hundred stars or other ob~ects. If, however, the work done is·independent of any catalogue, ·.and we are sweeping the heavens in zones, there is no difficulty in i·ecording both right' ascension and declination on single wires just af'J .rapidly as the stars present themselves, even up to three hundred stars ·per hour of time. This has actually been done. For the purpose, .therefore, of cataloguing the heavens, the new methods offer advan..tages of the highest importance. · · We now present some of the results tending to demonstrate th~ de,gree of ,Pre?1sion al.ready reached in ~he determin8:tion of the difference~ .of declination.· As the whole subject was entirely new, no advantage could be gained from the experience of other observatories, a~d hence the difficulties which have beeQ met were encountered under ,the most unfavorable circumstances. Having, however; impiicit con,fidence in the great principles involved in the new machinery, I never · doubted for a moment that the discrepancies which arose would finally be ~aced to mechanical defects, or to accidental and unanticipated causes. M;v attention has been exclusively directed to this single poiµt:
~iffercnt nigl1ts on stars whose difference of declination variedjrom a second or fWo ef arc up to 26° or 30C? ? , ' 'l'o convett the records into degrees, minutes, and seconds, presents ~o serious difficulty, and luui; therefore, not as yet occupied my atten:. ~ton further than to demonstrate with certainty its practicability. ·. In my very earliest obsetvations 'with ten declmation wires, more · ~han two and a half years since, a simple inspection of the record in the . ~hape of ten delicate wedge-shaped dots on metal, with a powerful 'Jn.icroscope, demonstrated at opce the perfection with which these re.:. cotds were made within the narrow space o~cupied by these ten dots. . 'rne wires were as nearly parallel and equidistant as we could place ·Jb~rn., Yet the small inequalities of distance were always measured :With a precision only limited by the power of. bisection under· the .cit': .~umst~nces existing during the observation. When the weather was ~ranquihnd the stars steady, the most admirably accordallt r~sults ; ~ere re~ched: on the contrary, when the stars were dancing, ~r 1ll~de .. ,~n~d, d.1sc1·epancies were recorded doubt~css due to errors of. p1sect10n · ., ~}s·q~1te unnecessary t() present the evidence of accu1,'llte movement , ··. ~t~in the above narrow limits, Inasmuch as the Woi4~r)·ange of obser, r,tton will include the more restticted. ' .· < ' , ·~he~, on a coinpariso~ of the 'vork of t,'}'9 ~HFerent night~, ~lie dis~repanc1es were reducea to the fraction of a second of arc, 1t became
' , ' ' ' '. ' :

.witlun wliat limits

of error coulil the new apparat1ts repeat its own. work on

~

'

'

·

·

f

manifest tpat t~e, rpicrometer :~.as (as built) inc.a.pable. ~£;measuring wit~ ce~trunty such mmute qu~nt1t~es. I had neither t~me not .·~ea~s' to build a new and more perfect mstrument ; and find1~g the mtcrometer reliable fo1· half a dozen revolutions of the micrometer screw, a method of i?terc9pipari8on of t~e woyk of ,two different· ni$hts occurred ·t;o me, which, with my defecttve micrometer, would test m the most absolute manner the powers of the new machinery. This was as follows, viz: ·Th~ stars of thi:· catalogue w.ere observed during one night on the odd wires, 1! 8, 6, 7, and 9, leavmg the spaces blank on the engra,ve~ record, which corresponded to the even wires, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10. Everything remaining untouched, on the following· clear night the same stars were observed on these even wires, and thus a decade of dots was recorded, of which five were engraved on one night, and five ., others on the following one. These records thus intermingled and interlocked, were now easily read by the micrometer; and falling, as they did, within the limits of rpliable performance of the micrometer, the capacity of the instrument to repeat itself on different nights was tested in the most absolute man'.. ner, no mat~r if the stars observed comp~ehended a zone of even 26~ or 30°. It is proper to remark that in all these observations I was assisted by Mrs. Mitchel, the stars being taken by us alternately; tbe reading up was done principally by herself, while the duty of recording fell to me. In this way the results reached would be mdependent of any personal idiosyncracy, while the readings being made by one person and recorded by another, nq bias could possibly be given to the person reading. In our first experiment of interlocking observations, forty-eight hours elapsed before it became possible to remove the metal plate from the pier, during which interval of time there were constant changes in the atmosphere, with storms of rain and wind. It .was therefore with no small anxiety that, on closing the observations, the microscope was turned upon the decade of dots, the work of two nights, at interv'als of forty-eight hours. The examination was in the highest degree satis· fa.Ctory. The dots were placed with a precision and beauty perfectly astonishing, and no eye, thus far, with the microscope itself, has been able to mark the .difference between a decade of dots struClk on'two different ni~hts, and one struck all.on the same. night. It did not re· qmre the m1crometer screw to decide the question as to whether the instrument had repeated itself on the two different nights. This was ?bvious from a mere inspection of the dots by ~he micr~sc?pe. In two mstances on the extreme stars there was a slight deviation from the uniforn;iity of the p!acing of the dots. I suspected this !O be owing to the act10n of the w1.i·es attached to the arm and con<luctmg the current from the battery through the electro-magnet. , Ample length was given to tJ,e wire, but there yet remained in it a sufficient stiffness to affect the.place of the arm in its· extreme .:PositionP., by a mi,nute .amount. This was fully demo~stra~ed by exp~nment on t.he followmg mght. A star was brdught to b1sect10n on a wire, and while thus located the con.. duc.~ng wires were gently to?ched by the hand of the observer and the uistrument was seen to yield to every touch. A source of error was thus detected, of a minute character indeed, but of vast importance

~. e ad.m1raWe. agreement now found to exist uniformly betwee.n the ~?rk ~f diff'.erent nights encouraged me to go back. and remeasiJre, ];1th g~eater care,, the old work still ·remaining engra~ed on. the plate. Y using a mean of two. or three measures· the. observaaons were \lrought to the most su~prising coincidence. I did ri?t ~tte~~t a re~ea1s.ure .of all the observations, but contented myself with a rigid exo.mmation of a single pair of N. A. stars, among whose observed differences 0 .f declination average discrepancies existed. I copy the final results, ~~rnark~ng simply that the observations we1·e made between the 26th .u,ay and the 30th June inclusive. · The following are tlie decimals of .a revolti.tion. o( the micrometer screw in the ten observations : · ·
11

:hh.er~)e~ths of seconds of arc '~ere the quantities ~ncler exapiinatio.n.

'Coronae to · Bootis ·.··· 6836 Ditr. from " .6609 " " " .6891 " " " .6883 '" " " .6906 " " " .6767 " " " .6699 " " " .6886' " " " ·.6906 " " " .6784 "

mean.~

" "

" " " "
" "

,,

"
"

· ·0017 == 0.068 .0210 0.840 .0072 0.286 . 0.256 .0064 0.340 .0086 0.208 .0062 .0120 .0.480 0.268 .0067 ,0086' '0.844 0.220 .0064:
0.340

Second· · ofarc.

.6819 .

"

Probable error, 0.260
Seconds.
11

Cor. to · Bootis, ·Greenwich Obs., 1840 ····· 0.06

" ,,

" " ,·,
" ,, "
IC

" "
" " " "

"

"

"

" " " " " " " "

"

" " " "
" "

"

"

"

1.61 1.64 1.02 1.26 2.67 1.39 0.81 2.66 2.62

1.401 Prob. error, 111.3 . l sha1l_11ow present a Jew mcinsure,s. of the .sun's diameter,· iu' 'wl}j~b, ithmu~t be observed that only relative qunntitie~ tu:e obta~necl. ~ruking t. e ~. A. as accurate on any 011e day of those md1catecl .m the <:tbi;~va tihon$, we found the power of the new apparatus to trace the fij>parent c anges in the sun's diameter·. This is not.yet absolute work.

?baervati(>m of tlie· 0 diameter at tltc Cittcinnaii Ob8en:atorfl, 'IJ~t., 1860.

S . .

.ept~mber 3 ········ .; ··· 1906.68
4 ············ 1907.40

. .

Oba.

Comr.

1906,"0 19C>G.SO

+.0.28 + O.CO

Dift'·

.- o·;,,fft·) Sej:)tember 6 .·~;; ~ ········ 1906;82 6 :· · ·...··.··. 1907 .6.2 -o.1s' 7 ·.···· : ·· .' ·· 1906.73 -·i.61' ' 9 ···.. -~ ···.· 1910.74 t.34 +o.7s ' 12 ... - - ·. - . - ·· 1911.58 .,.. l:·.28· 13. - - · - -- · - · - .1910.17 ·1ih3~oo -0.56 16. - - ·· ~-. ·,· - .1912.44 -0.7() 17 - ········ _._ .1912.65 1913.40 19 ...... - .. - .. 1914.74 1914.60 +0.14 .20 .·······.·.. 1916.00 + 0~80' 1~15.20 21 ····.······· 1916.62 1915.60 + 1.02 1851. May ···. 15 ..·.····..·. 1900.10 1900.02 0.08 1897.60 ' 22.: ·······... 1897.80 +0.20 24 .·.·····..·· 1897.46 -0.66· 1896.80 -0.13 1896.20 26 ~ ··········. 1896.07 The 'work in 1860 was measured with the defective micrometer, and I attribute the' increased discr~pancies to this cause, rather than to any inaccuracy in the observutions or records. · On the apJ?licati~n of th~ princip~e already exP.lained, of i~termingli!1g the observations of two different mghts, mostot the large d1scrcpanc1cs which had for along time annoyed me, and which I folt were dtie to imperfections in the microrpeter (but which I had not hitherto been able to demonstrat~,) all disappeared, and the results have since exhibited the most surprising harmony. I shall present only a few specimens of the work done, a more full and elaborate report will be made hereafter. · Observa~io7l~ of June. 16 and 17, 1851.

·Obi~· , ·

Compi. 1907.40 1907.8.0 1908.40 1909.40 1910.80 1911.40

,n11."'·;

'

+

+

as

Observer, M. , Bootis to B. A. C. 4969 L .· 6060 L. a. Coronae ..·. 6508. " l\f.4706 .·..··... 3397 " l\f. a. Bootis ...·. 8877 " l\f. 4933 ..··.··· 8882 " L. 5120 ..· ~- ·.·. 1430 " L. a. Serp······.. 2245 "
16th.

16th.

17th.

Dltr.

Sec'de.

6064 0004 6420 0088 3288 0109 8687 0190 8663 0199. 1268 0162 2262 0007,

-

0.016 0.362 0.336 0.760 0.796 0.648 0.028 0.418
See'd··

l\I, , Bootis 4969 a. Cor. 4706 a. Bootis 4933 6120

17th.'

Dllf.

to 4.969 L ............... ·6060 " a. Cor. L ...............0448 4706 M·;: ·······.. · ···· .6889 " " a. Bootis M... ~ · · · . · · · · · .6480 · " 4933 L.,............ . · .0061 '~ 6120 L ··········.·.····. ·2553 " a. Serp. M., ··········· ·0816

·6064 .0351 .6&73 ·6399 .9946 .2605 .0992'

0004 0097 0016 0081. 0095 . 0052 0177

o.oio.
0.388 0..064' 0.324; 0.380' 0.208)
om~s
__:.·1
'

·.o.soil'

prese11~ .cine more s~eofmen of the slim? ki~tl of wor~, with' 110~6. &11g~t add1t.J.onal se.curity for accuracy; s1mJ?lY remar}t.1ng.:;tlm.t1 rbere·
~gain the stars were ob~erved by L. and M. 'Y~thoµtiany: specific ·order:
Di ff, Scconda.

·.r

B. A. C. No. 6084, to 6323
"
" ·
<C
Cl

"
"
"
"

" 11

"
"

"
11

."
" ·
· "

''

6820 1336 , BQotis 1407 u Coronae 6667 1662 6106 . 6430 7340 ,6689 1530 a. Bootis · 1669' 6110 a. Herculie 9980 ~ Serpentis 0640

6896'

1319 1399 1662 6614
7380 1670

1699 0046
0676'

0076 0016 0008 0000 02a4 0040 0140 0030 0066

0;304 0.064 0.082 0.000

o;936

0.160 0.540 '0.120 0.264 0086" 0.140 10)2:660'
.~0.266

0.1280, llere it will be seen tliere is' no' accumulation of error due to the increased distance between. the stars observed. This will also become.' .tnore evident by examining the observations of intervals between wide' stars on the preceding nights already reported. . . I am no~ satisfied that the errors which yet remain may be. dimin-: lshed one-half by the use of ten instead.of five declination wfres; and,·. finally, that all work for dllferer!ce of declination between stars may be achcomplished with an accuracy equal to the best irticrometer work,· "' en the stars are but a few seconds a.part. · 'l'he best work done in the world, (so far as I know,) has been ac·~0rnplished in the Imperial Russian Observatory nt Pulkovn, and is · 1 ef?orted. by M. Str.uve in: his great work on that institution. By the· · ~eatest refinement of a.rt and skill on a few stars, the accordance·· ~t'\~een the· determinations of different nights has been brought to ~~thm a limit of probable error of two-tenths of one second of arc. It' ~dl he seen by examining the results reported, that the new method, lll. ~he very infancy of its application, with defective instruments, low· hPt1cal power, and with every possible disadvantage to contend with, · 1as al1eady rivalled in accuracy the best work ever done. Indeed, the· that Work reported greatly .surpasses the Pu~ko~a work in accurucy, as. the averuge error 011 ton differences of declmat1on amounts to no more: e an t~enty-five hundredths o~ one second of ar?, while the. 'ttver!lge . , ti.tror in the Pulkova observations amounts·(on differences of declma-' On) to forty-hundredths of one second of arc. . . of ButJhe old methods have already been pushed to their ultimate liiµit wmttai11able precision. Of this, l think any one will be convinced who. lllld ~ea~ M. Struve's admirable history of the Pulkova Observ~tory llotl/ts instrµments· On. the contrary, in the new m13thp.df almost, . tng has been done. Any one who has u~ed telescopes of low P?Wer' :dd those· of ~reat ,power? need not be reminded of..the· ~xtr~ord~nary · in vantage which high optical power and good definiuon gives m b1sect- ·

··g a. star.

. )n the.~~t refractor of the Cincinnati ObservatQJ'y; , BoQtis is. di·. v'i:deCl into w~., beautiful· stars, some two seconds ·of arc asunder.,· eacb.l round and '8liarp ;; 'Y4i).~, in the small instrument used .in. the foregoing. observations, the same' star appears as a single object, a large mass of light. In' case it were pos'sil;>le to employ the optical power of the great refractor, tl:ie·most astonishing increase of accuracy might be anticipated. If. suc}J. an 'object-glass were mounted as a transit, the records would 1 then be made very conveniently on the circumference of a circle thirty feet in diameter, and a second of arc would occupy a space nearly three-fold greater than that now in use· by me, and four-fold greatf:'r than is elsewhere employed (so far as I know) in the world. Again, thus fa,r, it must. be remembered that the precf;ldin$ results are tho means offive wire observations. There is no difficulty m · increasing the nqmber of wires to ten.or even fifteen, should it be desirable. In short, the new method is capable of almost indefinite expansion aud increased. accuracy-1. By increase of optical power. 2. By perfocting the me· chanical .arra.ngements. 3. By increasi~ the radius of the recording circle. 4:. By increasing the number of observations, or the number of decJination wires. . The· new method nlso involves a principle of ·wonderfol value in the delicate wo1·k to which it must be applied. I mean the power of stereotyping the positions of the instrument, so that the observations may be scrutinized at leisure, ancl be read and re-read until the error of reading up shall be reduced to an insensible quantity: this cannot be done in the old method. ·_ What, then, ma.y we n~t anticipate from the application of this new machinery, under· favorable. circumstances, to the examination of the heavens? If Struve dared pronounce his instrument competent to the. determin:ation ·of pata:lla.x, .. proper motion, &c~, with results discrep· o,nt to two-tenths of one second, then indeed has the new machinery converted .a small· inferior. transit into an instrument. compr:tent to cope with these grand mechanical questions. · . Apply it, then, to instruments of perfect construction, of high optical power, with egual advantages of high mechanical perfection, with a. l'µU ten-wire diaphrngm, interlock the observations until the .power ·of the micrometer is fully and positively determined, and then who will: <l;are to anticipate the results which may be reached by such a combination of science and mechanical power ? Motions which have hitherto required centuries for their detection and measurement, variations in the proper motions of th(:) fixed stars, which have only been sutipected, parallax annual and systematic-even the position of the double stars · themselves-may not all these, to say nothing of. aberration, nutation,· precession, fall fully within the range of rapid and positive.reseu.rch? , ~ith the delicate antl po~erfu~ machinery for determining R. A., on which no less than twenty~five wires are success.fully employed, com".', bined with 'this no less powerful rneans of measurmg difference of decli.. · ~fl.tion, ll!ay ~~. . ~ot hope that eve. Q in the life~me of a sinsle observ,.~' 99me of.the dO,t' problems oqhe heavt>n~ which now defy our utmost effl:,rts may be resolve. d and yield up th<rir long and deeply concealed niy~~ries? My only regret is, that I do not possess the mewis to ex.e·

·t~., !ugh and profound problems.

Sl~':,a~ immediate appliea.tion ·of these new methods to the l'esolution of
Very respectfolly, your obedient servant, . . O. M. MITCHEL. : Profe~Jor A. D. BAoHE,

Srtpcriiucndc:1it of tlie Coate Survey.

APPENDIX No.10.

:Ea:traas fi·om the rcfiort ef Professor Agassiz to the S?tpcrintendenfo/ tfie . Coast Survey, on tlte examination ef tke Florida reefs, keys, arid coast. ' . .
'
\

. CAMBRIDGE, August, 1851. · . St;i,t i The following report of the examiriation ~ade by. me of't~e

Florida reefs, keys, and coast, is prepared m cbmplmnce with your re({uest: ··

Topography ef Florida.·
'ro form a correct idea of the Florida reefs, it is of para.mount importance to keep in mind the topographical features of tfie whole country. 'fhe peninsula of Florida projects between the Gulf of Mexioo ahnd the Atlantic, from the 30th degree of northern latitude, nearly to .t e 24th, as a broad, flat, low promont01y, which has generally been 00 nsidered a continuation of thP. low lands of the· southern States. :Sut, as we shall see hereafter, this is' not the case, or, at least, not with l'hespect .to t~e s.outhern extremity of .the pe~ins~la, w hie~ consi~ts .of t. e same formations as the reef itself. Agam, m a physical pomt of "View, Florida is not limited to those tracts of land, forming the peninS:ula., which l'ise alfove the level of the sen, for the extensive shoals oloQg its southern extremity, between the main land and the keys and reefs, as well as those extending to the west as far us the Tortuga.s, \\Thence thry stretch along the western coast, in fo.ct belong to it, and ~re i~tif!lntely connected with it, by their physical cha~ac.t.er. There . ~~ a .stnnla.r trnct of ftnts, along the eastern shore, but it is not so exl~!ls!ve as on the southern and western shores, nor d0cs it partake as ar1'gely of t~e p~culiar ~l.1arncter of the peninsula, b.eing chiefly. formetl () the'alluvml sand, drifted ashore by the waters of the Athmtic. r,We shall have occasion, however, to show hereafter that the narrow Whgitudina1 isla ncls, w hicb ext end close to· the mai~ land ah:iost r?r the (lle length of the eastern shore,· are probably a <lll'ect contmuatton of the,keys, covered with drifted sand.·· This is certainly the case whh ~9~ ;range 'of keys e.xtendin~ from the main lnnd to CnJ?e Florjda, which ~~~~s to th.e e(lst'the bay ot Miami, their formation bemg of coral ):'()ck, , .pf'(!overed by silicious drift-snnd. , ' · ·di' ~.(to t11e southernmost extremity of tho mo.in land propt:ft-,·.,iris very v·Jlicult tO determine its outlines, as it consists of innum~1'itl>le islands,

...

. , .... -4-dlreqt·lnveatlgatlon· of thia }>Qint. which did not come withln.·tl.W i1mlta of lll)' 1urvey1 of · 11 be ot' oonslderablo .praotlool)iµpo~poo, .innsmuoh ~A.~ma;y lead·~ the d{&Qovery ~ ha,ta of coral rook, affording a tar more solid foundation tbr the ooustruct1on of the llgbtc:a Wanted along that ooa.t than the lOOIJe lhoro detrlt\11, ·
.
.
;

,
-

- "

'

'

-

-

J -.

~~ ·'

-\,

10

··~

··I.A'. '6

, sometimes :separntecl by. narrow ·cha'.nnels,'. ond som.~·mes nHunlirtg··~~; character of real islands only atYhigh wa:ter; being rmostly co.qnected with the xnain land by very shallow fiats. This i& especially the ca:so along the . southwestern extremity. of the. peninsula. The outline 0£,the
southern shore, however, between Cape 1''.Jori<la ancl Cape Snb1e; js better·defined-pr<'senting, in.almost unbrol,en ..continuity, ittet1p blufliJ of the same coral limestone which ·forms the hott(lm of the .evergln.detlr andxnay be traced, without interruption, along the Miami from the sea· shore to the everglades. . .South of the main land, between it and tbe range of k£·ys, there are extensive flats, which, even at high water, Dre but slightly covere<l, aqd which the retreat of the tide lays bare; leuving only narnrw nnd sb~JloW channels between the dry flutA, with occasional depressions of greater depth. These mud flats extend not only between the muin lHnd anJ· the keys ns fiu as,Cape Sable, but may be traced to the no11h along t,he western shores ot the continent, and to the west nlong the northern aho~es'.ofthe.keys,not.only asfar as Koy West and the Man1ueaasr but even to the 'l'ortugas. There is, however, this remark to be mncle-that to the west the . mud flats bet:ome,covcred, ·by degrees, with deeper flnd deeper water; or, in other. words, that these low grounds, extending between the main land ond the main rnnge of keys, clip slightly lo the west, being grnd· ually lost in the shoals extending north of the Marquesas and the Tor· ·.tugas, along the western shore of the peninsula. The1:1e ftuts are interspersed with innumerable low islands, known in the country b)' ·.the generic appellation of the :Mangrove islands, 1·cspecting which we shall give forther details hereafter. ' 'fhe shoals between Cape Sable, Cape Florida,. and the main range of keys, are literally· studded with these Mangrove islands. Sometimes they are distributed wJthout apparent regulnrily ;·sometimes, as to the .north of Key Largo, they .form,a continuous range between the mnin land a.nd the keys. 'l'~ey 11;~e also ver:y n~merous nlong the main key~' or at least along that side ol tlwm which 1s, turned towards the most extensive mud flats. Sometimes these Mangrove islands form little archipelagoes of innumerable small islets, so intimately interwoven, artd .,separated by such nanow and shallow chunnels, as to be almost itn" , pepetruble. Such archipelagoes occur chiefly to the north of .Buhio. Hondit and the Pine islands, ll.S wdl as to the northwest of Key West· The lu~urinnt vegetation which rises from these low islands, consi&ting chiefly of mangroves, gives them u very p~culiar appearance. shall'have ,ooca·ion to return to this sul~iect, when we attempt to explain the fi.mnatJ.c;>n of Jhe ditlb;~nt islands .c.onuected .w.itb tho Flr.t1·ida. rf:lef and the ma1.n laud. Tbe whole tra<'t between Cape Subfo nnd the kc~' east of Bahia Honcla1'as.far as Cnpe Ji'lol'ida, or at least 1u1 fo.r as Sul· .dier key, is so shoal that it will forever ren'.iain inucceissible, exceppo

wa

· very sma\t vessels. . ·. · Tt~e keys consist of an. ext~n~ivcnange of .Jow islands, t;ising butfll ·
.few feet, perhaps from s1x-1'>.· e1ghtor ten, er at the utmost to twelYB er.thirteen feet, above the level of the sea. 'l'hey b<>gin to the notthof 0.ape,Fforidn, where they converge towards the mafo fond, exten<Jj. f!g ·in the 'form of a flat crescent in a soutlnves,te.rly direction, gra~u.alb'

DOC''' 8 S. .
~
'

.

"'

.

'

..
'

. <'l·:.fl!'W:. ·. \&'.fi"f··

1

~ding ifrom :.ihe .main land unt.il.'Opposioo: Cape ·Sable, they ,have ao ~t ·retveated 'as·''to .be . sepnratecl from· it by a shallow' sheet of. water forty miles wide.' Fa1ther to the west they prf!ject in a more westerly :qohu~se, with occasionul interru/>tions, n~ ·fur ~.s the ~ortugJ1s, whichform 6i m<>st western group. 'l' iey consJst c1the1· ot acoumulnted dea.·d .~:irals1: of~oral 1·ocks, or ?f corol snn<_l', cemen~ed togeblmr .with more or "~~s :'compactness. 'fha1r fo!'fll ·vanes, but 1s u·sun.Hy elon~ed nnd tU1.1·row, their greatest, longitudinal extent.following the direction :of :·the ~ain rnngc, except in the gruup of the Pine islands, where thei1· course .ls ,almost at right·ungles with the moin range-a. circumstance which \\re 1iluill attempt hereafter to expluin. · · ' "Most of these islunds are sm11ll, t~e largest of tbem1 such as ,K<fy ''West and Key Largo, not exceeding· ten or fitl:een mile.s\inrl'ength; .,Q~hcrs only .two 01· three, and mo.ny scnr.cely ;o;,mlle·. , Their widch ..!y,a. ··l'lee from a q uurter to. o. thil'd 01· bn.lf n. mile, the lm·gest barely inea~ng ·!l- 'mile across; but whntever the difference in their size, they all ·agree ·n. one respect-thut thd1· steepest shm·c is turned towardf! tbe .Gt1lf . Str~n.m, while their more gradual slope incli11es towards the mud flats ·~hi~h they encircle. . "!'his is u point which it is· itnpottant to notice, ns it will assist· ,us in .our compa1·iso11 between the keys and the shore bluffs of the main la.nd, as well as with the oute1·. reef uncl the reefs of other seas, in all of which 'We 11fi11cl that the seaward shore is stetlz>er than thot tUrn(!d towiu·c:l$ the : inain lnnd, or, in the co.se of oircula1· reets enclosing b&Sins (atolls1 )·~1111 "~ot which borders the lagoon. . . . / ·· ·;:, 1 J'he l't1t>f pmper extends parallel <to the tnain range of keys, for~a ·few miles south or southeust of it, follo\ving the snme curve, arid ·'l'lever receding many miles from it. The distance between the reef · lnd the mnin range of keys varies usually from six to two or three .'~iles, the widest separation beii~g south of Key \'fest and east of t~e '.:'-egged keys, where the space 1s nhout seven miles. Between tlus :·reef~ upon whid1 n few smull keys l'ise ·at disto.11t inte1·vnla1 and the. · tnain runge of kl·ys already described, there is· a broad, navigable , t(fbnnnel, extepdiug .th? .w.h<tle leng.th of the ·reef: from ·the M0;1-ques8.s to Cu.pe Flo ml a, vn.rymg m depth trom three to stx and .seven fathoms, ":and1-except off' Looe key, where the passage is not more"than .fourteen :.fe.et <leep at low wnter, uvem.ginE{ from three to four futhonn. · . , .· J.i"'arther east the average depth 1s ago.in the su.me as at Looe.key.; but ,,~~'h.ecomes grudu~1Hy more nnd more shonl towfirds the.east,'mensuring .. ~. ~ua.lly ubout two fitthom~, or evt:i1. less, to the east ot Long) key !lad 1""ey ·Lm·go, but deepenrng ,ngnin somewhat towa!"ds C1,1.pe Fl01·1da, · "\V'here the rnef converges towru·ds ·the mnin keys and the ma.in land. ,' t>rotected by the outer l'eef~ this chnnnel affords a. very snfe navigation ·;to v.esaels of medium size, and would nllo~ a secure l'.uichorage,;"1.most 1 6\l'.erywherethmughout the whole length of the reef, were the'Jl~m,el'Ous deep channels which intersect the out~1· .rt'ef well k~o,~n t~ 1 9U:v1gn.tors :'atULmm:ked by a ,regu.lnr system ot s1gnnls. .As it. l&(i»'Wever, the r~r seems to P.resent, an unhrokert. rnnge of roost:id~n$'6rous sboul ,~~~ds;11upoowhiclithoueands of vessels, ns we,l¥~ 1mtlho11s ofp~ ,~rfy,J:1ave<alr~u.~y he~n wrecked. Thee~ &~o a stronge~Claun Alpon the o.ttent1011 ot the government, smcc there are, as atteady re1

t

S~ .

.·Doc·. 8 ·
"
,,,

marked, numer'oU$ passages across the reef which might ena~Je,,ev~P the largest vessels to tind 1helter and safe anchorage;· beh1:nd tl}~p threatening shallow barrier. · '' · · · · · .·· · The, reef 11roper, as we have remarked above, runs almost parallel to the main range· of keys· from Cape Florida to the western. e:x.tl~e.mitY, of the Mf1rquesas, where it is lost m the dee.p. It follow.s in itjtwhole extent the same curve as the ke~s, encircling to the seaward tl1e shill channel already mentioned. '.(his is properly the ngion of living corals. · · . · Tluuughout its whole range it does not reach the surface.of tbe sea, e"cept in a few points 'vhere it comes almost witl1in the level of loW" water-mark. givmg rise to heavy breakers, such as Carysfort,· Alligator reef, Tennessee .reef, and a few other shoals of less extent, but perhaps not >less dangerous. In a few localities fragments of dead coral ancl c«atsand begin to accumulate upon the edges of the reef. forming ·small keys, which vary in form ana position according to the inftuence, of gales blowing from different directions-sometimt~s in the <lirectiqn of the Gulf S1ream from southwest to northeast, but more frequently in the opposite direction, the prevailing winds blowing from the Mftheast. Such are Sombrero key, Looe key, the Sambos, and Sand,key· Here and ther~ are isolated coral bouldeu, which present projecling masses above water, such as the Dry Rocks, west.-of Sand .Key; Peli.. can reef~ east of it ; with many others, more isolated. '!'hough continuous, the outer reef is, however, not £10 uniform as not to present Ala~Y broad passages over its crest, dividing it, as it were, into many s,upmarine elongated hilfoclcs, similar in form to the main keys, but not, rising above water, an<l in which the depressions alluded to correspond, to the channels intersectin~ the keys. These broad passages leadilJg into the ship channel, which may be available as .entrances into t~e safo anchorage within the reef~ are chiefly the inlet in front of l{ey Largo and to the west of Carysfort reef, with nine feet of' water; a passage between French >reef anu Pickle reef, with ten feet; another bptween Conch reef and Crocus l'eef, also with ten feet; anothe~· b1:1twf1en, Crocus reef and Alligator reef, with two fathoms; another betweei.1, Alligator l'eef and Tennessee reef~ with two fothoms and a half; nndi1lsixth to the west of Tennessee reef, varying in depth from two ,aucl.a, half to three fathoms. . : ,,

T}Je·wmark which has been made respecting the mud flats aJ;idiheir,1
gtadual deepening from east to west, a.pplies equally to the gen"ral foatures oftbe main reef, as well as to the intervening channel ·. , th~ eastward the chrumel is shallo~er, the ground uround the.keys o.nd reef becomes shoaler, and there is a gradual dip towards the w~~' .wbic:h makes the connexion less marked between. the keys west of K~Y West, in the'.large groups of the soMcalled Mangrove islands, and tbl3 Marquesas, beyond wliich there is even an. extensive interruption1i~ · the succession of;tbe keys before we reach the 'fortugas. Thesel~t, however1 as well as the bank west of these keys, belong none the le·s, to the main range of keys, t'Kom which they are on.ly sep.arated .b)t4'{· more extensive and deeper de}lres.sion. West of Sand key the r~~ , . itself ~ecome& grachmlly lea& e e'Yated, until it is finally lost where iM

ro

149
~!ft~ chan'liie1, ~outb 'o(t'lle :Marquesas,' expnnds jnto tlie.broa.d dep~s.,. e16n, separating that group of keys and shoals from the '1101tugas. . . }n order to. understand fully not only the to,Pography, but. also th~
ij?cle of foirmation of ttll these keys and reefs, it must beremembered; Rt the ritli!J!lg' reefs, which form more or less continuous wall$, reach· ·ng at uneipal heights nearly to the $Urface, or above the level of the 'Raters; are only a. pa.tticulur modification of tlrose formation$ growing ~~oti coral grounds under special circumstances. It has been a.seer-: tained, w.benever similna; investigations have been made, that living b<)·~~ls do not occur in depths exceeding twenty fothoms, that the reef· U1lding species prosper from a depth of about twtlve fathoms nearly ~0;!he· surface, tll\d. thnt different s~cies follow each other at successive ~.1ghts. Now, if we keeP. in mmd these fact$, we shall see that all e c.oral-boo.nd islands of the West lndies,,as well as of the main ~and ~f Central America, const!tute an extensive cora.l field,,divi~ed by r?ad, cieep channe~, over which the coral reefs extend, with d1ffe1·ent. ten~ures, :M:!cor<ling oo the depths in which they occur and the cltnn~eg Which their own growth bus gradually introduced upon the localities where 'tJlaey nre found, influenoed and modified to so111<'l extent also .by the direction of the prevailing currents und the action of the tides. · T. he formation of I.be main rouge of keys in their primitive condition as ·a reef:-for, as we shall see hereafter, they have b~n a ~uh~mo.rine te~r, before they rose us isl.11n<ls 11bove the level of the ocean-the fo~ ~~·~ton of this range, we reP.eat, at gradually greater. di~tances f~m the tna~n: land, as. we foUow their course fyo'ni e.ast .to west, hQ.s bee~ simply 0 w,1n~ to the depth of the bottont from which the reef hn.s nsen. It has t?l.lowe~ the lin7. of ten 01· twelve fathoms dept. h ; and if ther!l ~s ho Wide an mterrupuon between the Marquesas ana the Tortugns, lt.lS . ecll.WJe the gl'Ound is deeper over that space. Again, if the Pine, ~~la.tt.ds have a northwesterly direction, while the main range runs mor~ ~o~ east to west, it is no doubt because the body of water emptying ro~ d1P. northern po.it of the gulf, along the western shoi:es of the ~nnuuJa, hns, for a time, run chirfty o~er that field,. ":bile tl~e tract of u~ Oats between the k~ys and the rnam 'land was fillmg prior to the f<i~tn!ltion the outed-eef, the rising of which, as an external barrier, llll.tat have modified greatly· the course of the <:urrents north of the keys ~~ ~'la,ter period, leaving between them only a fow narrow but naviga"." ~ Cn~.nnels, such as exist now between the Marquesas and the Man:r11~n!? islands, between the'$~ nncl Key We.st, and between the Pine ~~· and tho gl'Oup of Bahia Honda.

!

of

it ~ch ~'at ~bore has ossuf!led in the prog1-ess of tim~, for the penin11pl*1-

t.hoWe lV~>Uld or!lY a.dd .·that the a~sence of ooral.s along the western. \\>q ~of the pemnsula., at present, is probably owing to the chara·c·t~,

.

"

. . . . . . . .

~x.t~p~~' ~s.1s shown by the 1nvest1gat1~n of the everglEldes, ~d:J?Y the

la*~ Fi~·o~e been a reef, ~t lea~t a.s far as the 2tSth. degree. 0(;.':19rtb.

r

tt1!1lt1.t1Qi;t of the i·ocks at St. Augustine. <'"·'"·;,: re \~?s}~tit4d~ is the natuml northem limit of. the rormfi~C?rl of corq.l er~ 1 ,1~l)~& ll:lso:ottha extensive gr? WI h ot' s~ony corals t t~.ush. on the south~· hav 8~.·orea of. the Not'th American continent, t~ese formations seem. to e extended fill' beyond their usual bounds, probably under the m·

,&ence ·ofthe bigh'.temperliiUre of the Gulf Srrea,~1.for not· onl:f: dc/'tlie ·
narrow, 1011gitl!<linalisfands which extend along the eaMern shOre, and their direct <JQiinexion with the small-keys nortli of Cni>e Florida, in<Jicate their c9ralline origin, but we hnve even under the 32Cl1 degree ofnarth · latitude ,extensive coral formations at the Bel'mudas still :flourishing iti tae present da:y-~ If the gro~tb of corals .bas .been st~_ped a\on~l ~be easterp shore, it must be ascribed to the.mvas1on of dnft sancl, vd1tch eXtends over the everglades, as well as u]ong the eastern shores·ns·far epu~h as the Miami, Key BiscnJne, and the bay of the Miami· ·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

··

Mode ef formation of tl1e reef.
-~ The reefs of Florida as they hav<:' been described in the foregoing sketch of the topography 'of that State, and, indeed, the- sepnra.te part& each of these i·eefs, in their ext1msive range frorrl nf)ll'then st to south· west, present such varieties as will afford, when judicionsly combined, a complete history of the whole pmcess of their fi>rmation. · ' Here we hare groups of living corals, beginning to expand nt collt" .siderable clepth, an~ forming isolated, disconnected pate-hes, the first 11udiments, as it were, of an extf.!nsive new reef. There 'W& have a continuous range of similar corals in unbroken continuity for miles, or even hundreds of miles, rising at unequal heights nearly to the surface, , · Here and there a fow heads or large patches, or even extensive flat& of corals, reach the level of low-water mark, and mny occasionally be- · 1toen above the surface of the waters, when the sen is more ngiti:tted than by the simple action of the tides. In other places coral sallds or Joos~ fragments of corals, lnrger or smaller boukle1·s, detached from lower .:earts of the Jiving reef, are thrown upon its dying summits, nnd th'US" ft>rm the first,accumubtion of solid materials, rising permanently nho'16:t low-wa~r murk;. colle;?cted sometix;nes in such quantities nnd anucb heights as to remain dry, stretching their nokedhends above hi~h wa.tet·' ' In other places these accumulations of loose, df!'ad, matemtls have-

of

~ntirely

covered the once living coral!!, as for as the eye can reach int<>

:.the depth of' the ocean: no sign ot' lifo is left, eicept perhu.ps here ancl
'1tel'.e an isolated bunch of some of those species of corals which nllt'" urally ,grow scattered, or of those ~ther orgnni11m~ which congrega~ .around 9r UP;Qll c°.rnl. re~(s ~ but th; mcrease of the ~ee~ by the naturiu growth of ~Ile reef-buddm$' corals lS at an end. ·Agfun, m other place1JJ1 by the f1~rther 1;1.Cc,umulnt~OI) of' such loose ma.teri:1ls, u~d thfl peoulillf µiode, of aggrelJn~mn whwh results from the action ot the sea ·ur.on ,them, and wlnch Will be more fully exploined herealier, exten~''8 islands are fonnnd, ranging in the direction of the main land, wn10~ . 1upport them. Elsewhe.re wt" may tiud the whole extent of the ree ..thus coyere~, \vhi~h, ~ftPr a still more protracted accumulation; perbap&

.

becomes united with flOme, conti.nental shore, , .Now it must be obvious, that rrom ar<.:oinparison of so many sape.rat(:I ,.Jtages of the growth of ·n CO~IU reel~ a c-Orrect insight tnay·be oatnfl\ed jJ)toJhc process its formation; oriel, indeed, in thus'allucling·tcffhlf diff~rent localities which came under our own observution,' we lia"'

of

0

aJ~a.dy. gt veri n genernl bist01·y of its progrest1~ which we now P.~ee4 · tp, illustrate more in de.tail. · · · · · ". '?J"e 'vollld, however~ first remark, that the. extrnordinnry vnrieti~s Which exist in the natuml condition of different parts of the same reef, o~ of diffe1·ent reefs, when computed with each other, fully explain the' cl1screpa.ncies between tht~ reports which have been obtained, respecting the reefs of Florida, prior to our invc-stig11tions. It hn.d been stated that·the reefs consisted solely of living corals; and; .indeed, this report is true of the outer reef; which is called by all th~ inhabitants of Florida "t!tc rc1f" 110.r cxcclle11ce, and is unfounded only W1th regard to those fow islands wi1ich rise above the surface of the sea at Sand key and the Sambos. Others, who had noticed only the. larger accumulations of coral fragments which occur on the shores of ~rne of the islnnds forming pnrt oflJthe Florida reet, Imel reported the islands to be fonm·d of coml rocks; while some who hnd, perhaps, ob':' served the extensive excavations ma<le nroun1l Key W'est, hn.ve told Us only of the existcnee of oolitic and compact rocks, almost destitute of corals or other remains of ahimn.l lifo; ·and from still other localities C?t~es the opinion, that the rocks consist of nothing but more 01· less ,d1suuegrnted shells, cemented together. · · · · ·

.,·

· 'rl1is fullness and variety of nnimul life is pnrticmlarly obvious \Vitl1in tbe boundaries of coral fields, the nntuml limits assigned to the growth Qf these animals being those in which o.nimals of .other dasses range in ~e11ter profusion, nnd the cored reefs themselves ulso affording very h~vorable circumstnnces for the displn.y of numerous living forms. Hence the extl'flordinury assemblnge of ull clusses of nnimuls upon the reef, where, besides those particular kinds of cornls whicll contribute ~ l:\.r~ely to its formation, we fincl upon it, or on the foundution fro1n ' '~h1ch it rises, u. grent variety of other comls, which, tlmugh too insig· 1Uficnnt in size to take .n conspicuous part in building up these extensive ~ccumulutions of organic lime-rock, ndd none the less their small share 1Uthe work, contributing especially to fill up the vacant spaces left by ~e tnol'e ro.pid and clurnble growth of the larger kinds. 'rhey a.re to the ' fnt1ts of the reef what the more slender pruts are to th ti lords of the · 0 reat, ac.lding the eleg1mce and delicacy of sli,~hter forms to tlm strength, Pow~r, and dumbility of their loti:ier compnmons. .· · 13ut besides the stony corn.ls, we find m the reef 11 great vnriety of &oft polyps, either utt11che<l to the surface of dead corals, dencl shells/ . · or Of the naked rock, 01· boring .into the corul sand nnd. mud.
,su~h are different species of Arca, the date-fish among the Mollusca, an~ lnfll1Y worms, especially Serpula among articulates, the agency· of
·

. . . . . . .
Aiiimal Li/e·

..

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

··

\V~ich it1 the formation of the keys will he described hcreatte1·. A11 these &.rum11.ls and phu~ts contribute! more or less, to u.!1g1nent,the pi~ss. of s~lid ~~te,r1uls .which ls accumulat1n11 upon the l:eef, und }lle~11se its. s1z~. Ot only nre the bard pa1ts of shells, echmoderm~, worms, or thell'

br.oken fragments, heaped among the .detritus of· the corals, but -0cca,.. si6nally even the bones of fishes and turtles, which are very numerous along the reef, may be found in ~he.coral .formations. · The deca:ying soft parts of all these animals undoubtedly have their influence u~on the chemical process, by which the limestone particles of their .s0l1il frame are cemented together,. in the formation of compact rocks. Upon this point we mo.y exl:'ect farther information from Professor Horsford, who is now submitting to chemical analysis all the v.ariety of rocks and the solid stems of the different corals obtained in Florida. Respecting the relations of the solid and soft parts of the living coral, and their mode of growth, we would refer to a paper of ours now in press, to appear in the nex.t volume of the Smithsoman Contri..butions to Knowledge. · · · · · 11
.

The Keya.
, ."!e se~. ev.erywher~ tba.t t~e larger .boulders and the coarser fra~ ments hnve been the ii'tst to find a resttn~-place upon the dead reef ; the minuter particles and coral sand, wh1cb are periodically washed away from its crest during heavy gal~s, never accumulating upon .it till large boulders and more solid materials have collected to such an extent as to form sufficient protection for the more movable, looser fragments. This fact is beautifolly illufltrated by an accurate sun·ey of Sand key, where a wide field of large boulders is partially laii:l bare at low water, presenting the appearance of an extensive key, with a low hill of minute materials, the product of some heavy gale, heaped upon the summit, against .which the sea plays without disturbing it ma· terially, even at high water, when it leaves in sight only a nucleus, as it were, for. a greater accumulation of such loose materials which may in time cover the whole surface of the larger boulders. We have here in reality the same phenomenon .which is observed upon all beaches, where lar/3'er materials have first accumulated on a slioal shore, being followed, m the course of time, by more minute fragments which have found a resting-place upon levels where the sea was powerless to in· crease the colfection of coarser matter. In attempting to understand thes.e formations, it must be remembered that the accumulation of the larger ma1e1ials, collected at a certain level, may modify the action of the water at a subsequent period, thus producing a combination of substances, heaped unconformably upon each other. 'l'his is, in reality, the case throughout the whole main range of keys, which have been raised to their present level by the action of the ticles and gales for ages past, the fragmei;ts of which the~ are composed ~uving been thrown up at differ,. ent periods, and overlymg each other m such fi manner as to present the same itTegularity which is found in all drift stratification. Layers upon layers are seen resting unconformably, dipping in different d1rec,. tions so as to present all the modifications which may be observed in torrential stratification, each layer following, with more or less regll" larity, the course of the flood u'nder which it has been accumqluted. .·
1

.
·

'

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

'

. . . . . . . .
'

'

By a procesG1 not·yet fully. understood,. hut to which. we shall return hel'eafter, these loose collections are grndul;llly cemented into solid rock, presenting the most diversified appearance, according to the .subs~nces of which it is composed. Then we find a coarse l>reccia, con· stating of larger fragments of corals and shells, enclosing smnetim.es cor~ boulders; and this is the sor~ of rock which gen~rnlly overlies the immediate smfnce of that pol'tlon of the keys w h1ch bas been formed by the progrnss of the reef, growing in situ. Such rock was seen among the foundations of the new light-house at. Sand key, where the large boulders are very numerous, and seem almost as .fresh a.s if they had. been lying on the spot but for a few years. It ma:v he, in~ deed, that during the hurricane of 1846, the whole cap of the reef was renewed at that spot.
'

' A careful sut'Vey of the character of the rocks in 1ihe keys affords
· satisfactory evidence that they have been fo!'med at whatever heigllt they may rise, by· the same nction which is now going on upon the 1~ef-thut is, by the accumulation of loose mnteriuls above the water!evel. That pnrtof the, keys which rises ubove the level of the water ls, therefore, a sub-aerial and not a submarine accumulation of floating 'lllatter, thrown above high-water mark by the tempestuous action of the water. We insist upon the fact, tbnt the keys furnish in them· selves, by the internal structure of their rock, the follest evidence that they have been .formed above high-water mark by the action of gales ans.t hurricanes, instead of having gmwn as a reef up to the waterlevel, and been subsequently raised to their present height. 'f he evi~ence of. this stD:tem~nt rests upon certain fo.cts ohtnined from o?serva. tion of the reef itself, a.t Su.nd key nod the Sambos.
$ · · · · · · · ..

. . . . . . . .

Let us now return from this digression to the consideration of the keys themselves, under the different aspects which they present. We find, then, that some have more abrupt shores, being, as it were, na.r:row shelves with 1·aggcd edges, rismg without a beach from deep '\Va,teq these are undoubtedly such as.were formed upon the narrowest ~art of the old re~£ Others spread more uniformly,, having .an extensive beach, ~nd dip gradually under the sea, presenting a gentle· sub<lllarine slope, covered with coral sand and tnud; these were, no doubt, formed upon the. broader parts of the reef, where it descends gently on botlt sides. Again, we find those which, though resembling the last in ·general appearance, mny have more abrupt shores, owing to the denudation of parts of their earliest deposites. Occusionully we see that lnore recent layers have filled again such worn places, thus presenting, 0 n .a miniature scale, nmong the latest formations nmon~ layers which belong altogether 1? the p~esent geo~ogi~al age, all t~1e d1ve~·sity of ,unCOn(ormable depos1tes which occur m former geolog1cnl periods.<·

Coral Reefs.

· ··After examining a growing coral reef, so fu!l of s~ ·.fresh in ·appedarance, so free from heterogeneous mntermls, m which the coruls a here so firmly to'the ground, or if they rise near the surface seem to

'We,

164
defy the vfolence of 'the ·ocean; standing uninjured·.:amid .the heaviest breakers, an observer cannot but wonder why, in.. the next .reef, the· summit of which begins. to rise above the level:. of the. water, Lhe scene is so completely changed. Huge fragments of corals,, lurge stems, broken at their base, gigantic boulders, like hemispheres of Porites, and Mncand1ina, lie scattered about in the greatest confu.sion""""' flung pell.-mell among the fragments of more delicate form!l, and.heu.ped upon those '·igorous madrepores which reach the surface of the sea. The question at once arises, how is it that even the stoutest corals, resting with broad base upon the ground, and doubly secure from their spreading proportions, become so easily a prey to the action of the same sea which the..r met shortly, before with such effoctual resistance? The soluiion of this enigma is to be found in the mode of growth of the cora1s themselves. Liviug in communities, death begins first nt the base or centre of. the group, while the surface or tips still continue· to grow, so that it resembles a dying centennial tree, rotten at the heart, but still appnrently green nnd flourishing without, till the first heavy ~ale of wmd snaps the hollow trunk, and betrays its decny. Again, mnumerable boring animals establish themselves in the lifeless stem, piercin$ holes in all directions into its interior, like so many augers, aissolvrng its solid connexion with the ground, and even penetrating far into the living portion of these compact communities. The number of these boring arumals is quite incredible, and they belong to different families of the animal kingdom: among the most active and powerful we would mention the date-fish, Lithodomufl, several Saxicava, l'etricola, Arca, and many worms, of which the Serpula is the largest, and most clestructive, inasmuch llS it extends constantly through the living part of the Coral stems, especially in Macandrina. On the loose basis of a l\focandrina, measuring less than two feet in diameter, we have counted not less than fifty holes of the date-:-fish.some large enough to admit a finger-besides hundreds of small holes , made by worms. But however efficient these boring animals may he in preparing the coral stems for decay, there is yet another a.gent, perhaps still more destructive. We allude to the minute boring-sponges, which penetmte them in all directions, until they appear at last completely rotten throughout. · · · · · · · Sllip Cliannel.
The broad c:hannel. extending the whole range of the reef, between the main keys and the outer reef; is rather uniform, having the same wid~h thrqugbout, with the exceptions of those fow places where the reef widens, or the mud flats from the keys enc:mach upon it. Its narrowest passages are between Looe l<ey and the Pinc islands, . between Pwkle and French reefs, and between Key Rodrigues and Tavernier. It is uho somewhat nanowed betwe~n Alligator reef and Iu<lian key, and is wide.st off Key West. Its depth varies also slightly, being 'shoaler in its eastern range t.ban to the west. The shall11w'est pnrt is between Pickle reef and Key llodl'iguez, and between Looe

key and Pine islands.

· But if we do,.not t~ke i11to ll.OCOUnt those spots where the depth ' is reduced from local c1reumstonces 1 .we may sny, tbnt, as a whole, the ship channel begins to the'~ enst, with a depth of itbout two fothoms ~etween Ji"'owey rocks and Soldier key, increasing gmdunlly thence, :Until it reaches three fathoms between Pacific reef ltnd Old Hhodes 9 tpen bec01~es ag:=iin sli~htly reduced .between Carysfo1 t reef and .Key :Largo; after wlnch, wJth the exception of the shoals between Pickle reef and Key Rodriguez, it deepens a.gain to three, four, five, or even s:ix fathoms, u11til, between Looe key uncl Pine islands, it sho:.tls·once tnore to fourteen foet. Farther on, it increa.sAs ·a.gain to five, six, and , s.even fathoms, the average depth between Ki>y · West nnd the reef being five or six fathoms; and still beyond, more towards the west, sit1ks tp eight, nine, and ten fiithoms betwf'ell the western extremity of the Marquesas and the western end of the reef, where it spren.ds into the 'great depression separating the 'fortngns from the Marquesas. 'l'he ·chairacter of t.he bottom varies in different parts, as do also the livihg beings which it supports. Where it is the most shoal, n.s between Fowcy rocks, Triumph reef, and Long reef, on one side, and Soldier key and the Rugged keys on the other, the bottom consh·ts of coral Sa.ud; overgrown with what is cu.llccl the country grass; that is to say, a variety of the limestone a.lgre, mingled with Gorgoniu., among which· r.ise a number of coral heads.
1

, To the west of Long reef, especinlly btitween Carysfor~ and Key Largo, the coral sand rises here and there, in the form of sho»l so.ml,. hanks, intermixed with coral heads-un arru.ngement which is proba· ::bly owing to the more rapid currents flowing in that part of the chan· nel, which is precisely the turning-point of the direction of the reet: Such heads occur again about u. mile nnd a half off Vermont key, half way between Key Tavernier· nnd lndin.n key, outside of which Gorgoniu. and sponges are very abundant, upon a hnrcl, white su.nd bottom. Similar beuds ure seen between Long key r.mcl Tennessee ree~ ·and nearer the reef there are sbonls of white coral sand, covered witb Gorgonin; but farther west, off Duck key, the bottom becomes softer. ··Off Bahia Honda, again, it is rocky-that is, studded with large heads, surmounted with soft, muddy snnd. This chu.nge in the character of ''the bottom is more obvious westward, where the bends 1tre fower nnd ·the bottom more generally muddy, or covered with finer·gmined sand. li'or inst1mce, hard sand is observed between Loggerhead key and ·'6iaddle bluff; but nearer the reef~ as fo.r us the Ainericnn shr>nls; we · have soft mud, with shoals and coro.l heads. Off Boen Chica, the cban· uel way has also a bottom of soft corul mud, whik~ shoals; with corul 4iead.s, 'mu.y be· traced for three-fourths of a mile ulong the shores, ns, ··~gain, towards the Sa.mbos, in a depth of from three to two fothoms. :·::L'he softness of the bottom in the vicinity of Key West, considered ·m connP.xion with t\cie scarcity of coru.l lieads in that rP.gipn, shows lha.t a soft mud formation is unfavorable for the growth of cornls; '·Oindr indeed, this holds also good for the fl:i.ts north of~tbe keys.

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

"··

·,

...

. . . .

·'

.

. .

~...
~

S~ Doc~ 3~

··

. A careful survey of all the varieties of rock occurring at Key West, as well as their peculiar superposition, had prepared us for a minute comparison between the keys and the main-land ; but, nevertheless, we were no less surpris<",d than delighted to find that the solid foundation of the main-land consisted of the same identical modifications of coral rocks which form the keys. Along a.11 that part of the shore which was. examined, as well as upon the shores of the Mi11mi, we found everywhere the same coarse, oolitic rock, with cross-stratification, consisting of thin beds, dipping at various angles in different directions, precisely as we find it at the western extremity of Key West, excepting, perhaps, that the cross-stratification is here more prominent, the strata dippmg more frequently in several directions within the same extent.

. . .

The Main-land.

. . . .
.

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

Coast Survey.
But it may be asked, what is the practical use of such detailed cle'." scriptions of the coral reefs for the coast survey ? We need only · allude to the universal impression of the dangers arising to na.\'iga· tion, from the growth of such reefs, to satisfy the most skeptical that a minute knowledge of thfl extent and mode of formation of those be- · lo~ging 1? our own shores m?~t be of paramount importance, w~re it only with reference to the pos1uon of hght-houses. But there is another subject connected with this investigation, which is not less momentous.: It is well known that in the Pacific, coral reefs have been raised above the levels at which they were formed by the agency of the living animals, and al.so that in other localities, sometimes in close connexion· with those just mentioned, the ground is subsiding. These changes have been so often obse1·ved, whenever coral reefs occur, that the idea of subsidence and upheaval is naturally connected with 1he features· of coral reefs, ancl the question at once arises, whether the reefs on our shores are thus undergoing variations of level, independently of their natural growth. We have seen how extensive are the changes produced merely by the normal growth of the corals, and the facts accompanying their increase. It now remains for us to ascertain whether this growth has taken. ·place, or does at present take place, upon ground which has changed or is now changing its relative level .in reference to the Thefocts already described afford a sufficient answer to the ques· tion. We are satisfied that as far as coral formations·have been ob· served upon the main-land of F.Iorida, and within the present extent of the coral reefs, no change of the relative level has taken place either by subsidence or upheaval of the coral ground, !nd that all the .modifications which the reef ba.s presented at successive periods have been the ~atu'ral consequence. of the grc;>wth of re~f:.building corn.lit,' with die subsequent accumulation of their products m the ,manner de.. · scribed above.

sea.

'

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

.·

s. ·nae. ·a.
Th~re is in reality but o.ne 'Waif ~f accounting for this e9uali~~ of l~vcl m the successive reefs; which is1 to SUJ?pose that their lofuest ridges a.re the :maximum· height at which ma:ter1als can be a.ccumulated ~y: the naturaJ..agency, of ~ales, and we have sufficient evidence to justify. the adoption of this view. ' ' '' The fact tl10.t1 ·at present, the highest tides during the most se:v:.ere gales d.o not reach the level of the. blu~ summ~ts along ~he shpr,~s Qf. the mam-land, or even that of the ma.x1mum height of Key Ln.rgo or Key West, does notinvalidate this suppc>sition; fqr when the shore bluffs of the main-lan<l were formed, the ocean had full sweep over the ground now occupied by the reef and mud flats, which did not then exist ; and \Vhen Key Largo and Key West attained their maximum height, the. outer reef did not yet form a barrier, checking the violence of the Gulf Stream in that direction. But, even with the· present obstruction, we have evidence of the occasional rise. of the water to heights which fully justify our assumption, that even the highest ridges on the shores of the main-land and on the reef have been formed by the action of severe gales. For, in the year 1846, the water rose eight and a half foet above high·wate1· mark at Key Vacas. Key West was entirely inundated during the same gale; ~ncl though that island is somewhat protected by the reef, even at present the rnshes, driven upon it by the flood, ~ay be seen among the trees and bushes, at a height nhnost equal to its loftiest summit. In 1841 the w11ter rose ten foet above high-water rnark at Cape Romaine, on the western shore of the peninsula. These facts suffice to show thn.t the explnn11tion we t.ave given of the formation of the reef is in accordance with the powers· of the agencies to which it ie ascribed, and, when taken in connexion with tne peculiar arran~ement of the materials of which they consist, seeins to us to prove the JUStness of this view·

1

.

'

··

. . . . . . .

Phyaical Cltangca in the Gulf Stream ·
..There are severu.l questions of the deepest scientific interest, 'vhich lnay be advanced by a due consideration of the facts observed upon the reefs of Florida. '!'here we have a peninsula-a narrow, flnt strip of projecting for about five degrees from the innin land, between the ·· b tlwuic ocean and the Gulf of Mexico, and forming an effective barrier · etween the waters of the· two seas, which otherwise, even by the change of a fow feet in the relative level of the intervening peni1~suln, \Vould communicate freely with one another ; and this peninsula we nuw. know to have been added to the continent, step by step, in a 80Utherly direction. We ~no:-v tho.t the tim~ cannot. be far behind us when the pr.e~ent . reef, wuh its few keys, chd not exist, nncl when the channel, thez:etorc, '1·~ hl'oader, and the Gulf Stream flowed directly along the ~f1in range 0 eys, We know, further, that at some eal'lier period the keys them, se1 .\lea were not yet formed, and that then the channel .between Cuba :dh}i'lorida was wider still, washing freely over the grounds now kno,vn :th t e mud flats 1 between the keys and the main land, and thnt there was ~11 nothing to impede a free communication between the Gulf. of

1nd,

.s... Doc.. B.
Mexic-0 nnd: the :i\.tlantic' tlcean. The channel ofthe Gulf· Strea.m '\vas nonmly wider.,.,.-it was.alflo. less shaUow'along it1M·or,t:.hern :borders; for the.who~ t.Xtent of soundings 'South of thema.inJandof:J:."'.lori<:la w~an -uu~o.vereci:ooral grotirtd, ·ilpdn'whrcfr the d~ep·wuier specfos were j11lt beginning to spread. But we may trace the change' farthef; The,11e was a tim<;1 when neither the southern bluffs ofthe continent, .nor Long key within the evergbdes, nor even the everglades themselves, existed; when, tberefote,' the Gulf Stream had a broad communication· with the Atlantic, untl the soutben'i· ahores of the United States extended in almost unbroken contiguity from west to enst, from the sl1ores of Texas and Louisi~ma to St. Augustine. At thut time the gull' channehvas, in reality, a bl'oa<l bay, as ·broad as the· gulf itself, destitute of all those obstructions which now cause the tropical current to .follow -such'!IL circuitous course between the West In<lia islands, ,,through the Cit· ribbean Seas, nnd around the peninsula of Florida. '£he influence which the Gulf Stream has upon the climate of the Atlantic is .so well known, that its connexion withthe changes which the current itself ha.s under~one within a compamtively recent period cunnot be over· looked. It it is true, as we have every reason to believe, that the t~m pcrnture of the Gulf-Stream, in connexion with the temperature of the southwc~stedy winds blowing olJliquely across the Atlantic, modifies that of the western coast of Burope,-if it is true that the Gulf Stream and the southwest wiu<ls have an influence in determining the course of the isothermal lines upon the two side!\ of the Atlantic, and of rais· ing beyond their normal altitude the' meun annual temperatures of north.west Europe, then we mny look to the pbysicol changes which have occurred on the southeastern extremity of th1~ No1th American con· tinent for the en use, or at least a portia l cnuse, of those cha.nges of tempe· ruture which have takc·n place in the beginning of the present period, in those very northwestern portions of' Europe which are now so .nruch warmer than the co!'l'csponc[ing latitudes on the Americnn continent, and which, soon after the accumulation of the glacial drift, bud as low menn annual temperatures as the coasts of Labrador, 'Nova Scotia, and New England in our day.
1 ·

. . . . . . . . .,
Cluwgea in ages to come.·

Amongtbe questions contnined in your instructions, you ask whether the growth ofco·ral reefa can be prevented, or the results remedied, which are so unfo.vorahl<~ to the snfo~y of n:1vigatio~. l ma.y ~ay that her~, ns ill most cases whPre the opernt10ns ot nature mterfere wnh the designs ,o( mun, it js not by a. direct intervention on out' part thnt we ma.y remedY the difliculties, but rather by u precise knowledge of their causes, whi<eh may enable us, if no~ t~ check, at least to 1woid the evil cousequenceS· I do not see.the poss1b1lity of limiting in any way the extraol'<linsrY. increase of corals, beyond the bounds which nnture itself has assig11eCl to thei; growth. We hnve seen ho"'. s.uccess~ully seyeml re~fir have hee~ formed, more or less parallel; :w1th1n the bm1t.s of the pemnsl1la~f Floncla, as well as bevond the mum .land. We have seen, n.lso, ho-W these .parallel or concentric reefs have been gradually transfoJ'med jrttO · main land by the accumulation of coral sand- and ·mud- with: other' loose

s: Doc .. 3.
tnatE'rials, and nlsothnt the keys ure now s]owly annexed to the innin laud,. by tho ~a me proc~Eis ·.. We mny therefore snfoly infor, that, ns f&r as the conditions exist for the formation of similar accurnulutionE! of loo11e ma.tedals.,<they will continue to occur, but they \Vill neve1; extend beyond the natural foundation from which a c·ornl reef muy rise ;,irncl as we . now hitve suflicit>nt .evidence that this fouudutiou i11 u senbottom, u11der from 12 to 20 fathoms, we may be sntisfil'd that outside of die present outer reef; where the slope··is steep, sinkin<r mpidly to unfuthomu.ble depths, there is no opportunity for .the growili ot u new

teet:

,

.

Here and there the reef may wiclen somewhnt, towards the Gulf Stream, within those limits at which the depth does .not c·xcced twenty fathoms, and from the knowledge we nlrendy possess of the soundings outside the reef~ we know positively thnt this is nowhere n broud stream; we may therefore re1:1t assured thut the change11 which n1~e going on will chiefly consist in bringing up the reef; for its whole extent, \tothe surfoce.of the water, with occusionnl interveuing clm.nt1!"ls keJ?t open by ,the currents, suc:h n.s exist now bt\twecn the keys; thnt this reef once rnrrtured, will be covered by cornl dt·hris, becoming, trunsformed into ll. range of keys, similar to that which exists now insid~ of it; that the .depth bf the ship channel between the;· reef nnd the myin ~unge of keys will gradually lesi'en, nnd the chnnnel itself be clmnged into mud tlut.s, similar w tho::e stretd1ing now between the keys and the main Jand. In still more remote nges rhe prc·sent mud tlttts rnny become sw11mps, elevated u.bove tlie reach of the tide-wuter1:1, like the evergla<l<."B; and this process may perhnps be extended to tlw present ship chttnnel. But unless some greut r~volution in nu tu re moclities the })resent relative level bNwecu lnnd uncl seu, it may sufely be moin, l.u.inecl that the present outer reef is the final southen'.1 bounchtry of the North Americun continent, and 1hut the sooner n i'yi:tem of light-houses : and eiignnL'I is established nloug the \vholc reef~ the hettn; for this is, ' after nil, the shore which is to be lighted, nml not the rnngo of keys Which is within the reef. . In relation to the \Vestern range of key11, und the W<-'stern extremity of the reef; we muy expect, in course of time, rO·'Sf'e the depressiotl between the MorqueSltS and 'l\11'tugas gmdu11lly .~ssened by the incre11sc of the reef, so thnt the westernmost group of .. ~hlands may tinnily stand in as close connC'xion with the keys more to '~ ~ Wcst.ns they uow be.or to ench .other, the pussuge between them .':J!_·ng reduced to o.s nnrrow u c:banncl as Bueti Grande, betWCf:lll the · "''l.flt'C1ucsus and the Mangroves. . . l~bc shonls west of Cupe Snble rouy,. undoubtedly, ultio increµsc in 1!,lt.t~nt westward; but how fo.r the currents from \lie northwest mny 11tn1t this u.ccumulution, in connexion with the changes which the cur'~e~ts,'l:'hemeelves may undergo by the inctreuse of the keys to ·the wesl, ·.it 1£1 hey1md th~ power of humnn foresight to determine. , 1)1cse practJcul results-for ~o we \'enture to (!Rll the gcncrnl con., filutnons last pres~nt~cl-ulthough .th.ey nre purdy s~ientific ch·dqctions th0,m general prm71ples! may snt1~ty the most obstmate suppor~ers. of i,l e mnttei:-of-fo.ct side of nJl questions, of the aclvnntfl41res of sc1entdic
1

· ,,.,,,.,, ·hJ~h·ations in the .duily walks of life, and also justify .the c;ourse.:which ., '
~

',

]:60

s. noc. a.
L . ..¢\.GASSIZ.

ho.s been followed with so much success by the Coast Survey; in .com· , bining the strictest scientific methods with its prac;ticpl operation. Respectfully submitted: Professor A. D.

S11;perintcnd<mt of tlte Coast Survey.

BACHE,

APPENDIX No. 11.
List of Coast Survey maps, sketches, and preliminary charts, eng'l'aved and engraving.
1. LIST OF MAPS ENGRAVED.

No. 1. New York bay a.nd harbor and approaches ·.···..·· 2 ··· Do ·····. do .·..·· do ..·... do .····· No. 1 .... 3. · ·. Do ······ do .····· <lo ..···· do .···.· No. 2 ··· 4 ·.·. Do ..··.. clo ······ do .····· do ······ No. 3 ..· 1'· o·.·. Do .·.··. do .·..·· <lo~.~ ··· do.· ... : .No. 4 ·.· 6.··. Do .·.... do .···.· do ·..··. do ··.... No. 6 ··· 7·... Do .····· <lo ·····. do ...... do ·.···. No. 6 ... . B. Map of Delaware bay and river und appro11ches,No. l 9~ Map of Delaware bay uncl river and approaches, 2d engraved plate, No. l. ....................... .

10.

11. 12. The harbor of Now Bedford ......... · ·······.··· 13. The harbor of N,ew London ·········.···.······· 14. Fisher's Island sound ............................ . 16. Holmes' Hole: and Tarpaulin Cove harbors ..····... 16. Oyster or Syossett hay .......................... . 17. Little Egg harbor ........................... ~ .. 18. Harbor of Annapolis .......................... . 19. New Haven harbor ............................ . 20. Harbol' of I.;dgartown .··.··..··...· · ........... . · 21. Harbors of Black Hock and Bridgeport. ·..··.····· 22. Huntingdon bay .·..·..·.·.·..···········.····· 23. Nantucket hur,bor ··.·········..······.········· 24. Harbor of Sheffield and Cawkin's islands ········· · 26. Mouth of Chester river ··.·.·..······...··.······ 26. Hatbors of Captain's islands, east an<l west .···· ~ ·· 27. Long Island sound, sheet No. 2 ··· · ..··.·. -'· ····· 28·...· Do ...····. do ···.··· No. 3 ······.··· ~ .·.·· ·. 29. Ile-engraving lowe1· sheet of the Delaware ........ .. 30. Pasquotank river ......................... · ····· · 31. Cat and Ship Island harbo1·e ·····················

1\1~0 ~~ ~e.l~~~~r~. ~~~ ~~~- ~1~~·~~1~ ~·~1~. ~::~~~~l~~s: M~0~1~ ~-e·l~~~r~. ~~~ -~n-~ -~r~r~~~ -~~~ ~=:~~~~l~~s:,{

s:· Do·c·.: 8:·
~.8. Sooth·s ·
35. Mo 36, Cb 37. Riehm

UU .

~.

Hftoor or' Hyannis .· ~ ~ ...·····..· · ···· ··· · · ·. . · · nhT ng Island, No. 1 ···· ~ · . . . · . . · · . . · . · . ntliT
is.lands and Sachem's Head. ranee. ell Gate. 's Island harbor. · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · · · . · · · ·

'34. Hart and

:nrhT

2, LIST OF SKETCHES AND PREl;IMINARY CHARTS ENGRAVED.
1. Sketch chart of Nantucket shoals, {3d edition) .····· 2 ·..·· Do .··.·.. Buttermilk channel, New York harbor 8. · .·. Do ·....·. Cape Hatteras cove ..·.·······.·.· 4. · ... Do ...·... Cape Hatteras inlet ·..··.·...·.... 6, ···. Do .·.·... Bull's Bay harbor .········ '. ..··.· 6 ···.. Do ·.···.. Bea.ufort harbor, Nol'th Carolina ·.·.. 7··.·· Do .·..··. St. Andrew's shoals, Georgia ...... . 8..··. Do ...·... Nantucket shoals, re.:.Cngraved and enlarged ···.......··....·.·..·...·..·...···.. 9. Hatteras inlet, from re-survey .····....··..··..··· 10. Cape Cann.veral shoals .......................... . 11. Seacoast Maryland and Delaware ··..·.··.······· 12. Hatteras shoals .··..·..··.·.·.·.. ; .·..· · ·.·. · · · 13-lo. Reconnaissance chart (McArthur's) western coast .·.· 16. Richmond's island ·.····..·.·· · ·· · ············· 17. Sketch chart of Nantucket shoals ...........·.·.·· lS...20. Second edition McArthur's chart western coast. 21. Hatteras inlet, re-survey ........................ . 2.e-26. Five di~ram maps Cut Island tides. 27. Reconnaissance of Mosquito inlet .··...··········· 28 ······· Do ······· Horn Island pass ···.···· ~ ····· 29. Sketch of Point Conception ..................... . 30. Sketch of Point Pinos and bay of Monterey .······· 31. Sketch of Mare Isla.ncl straits .····.·.··· " ········ 32. Current chart Boston harbor. 33. Reconnaiss!lnce of Cedar Keys. . · · · . . . . · · . · . · . . · · 34..····. Do ··...·. Delta of the Mississippi.......... 86, ······ Do .·.·.·. Pa.ss Christion................. 36. Preliminary sketch of Galveston bay. . · . · . . · · · · · · · ·37, Sketch of Aransas pass .....·...···..·.. ·.·..·.· · 38. Preliminary chart of Trinidad bay................ 39, Entrnnce of the Columbia river. . · . . . . . . . · . . . · . . . · ·.'4·0 ..· Cape Hancock, or Disappointment................ · 41 ·. Holmes' Hole. 4 2...4,s. Seven mnps of progress and geographical positions for annual report.

~~.

1 !IOo 11G1J

ll oooO'dr'
1 I :10 0011

m-n
1

:nrhT

nrtfnir
:. uo'ouo

mn

1o..,.o-o ~:i.... oa""'

ntn :rn'wn
n11~n

nm
n4n ntn

Tlbw:

3. LIST OF MA.PS ENGRAVING.

N"'· 0

·. ,1 .. General

>:~ No~ l, Long Island sound ·······················

chart of the coa.St ··········.· · · · · · " · · · · · nnn

· No. 1, Chestipeake bay . .·.··..··.·..·.· · ······· ntn 11 .

1iln

s. Dec. 3.
No. 4. Patopsco river ·· ~·· ·.·.···.··. : ; ..···· ~ ··.·······;;.·
6. No. 2, south Elide Long Island .··.·· · ··

6. No. 1, eastern series ...··.·.. ~ ·..·....····.·.. , · 7. Boston harbor ··.······...·..·..........··.· ,, ··· 8. Muskeget channel. ·..···.......·...··.··..t:L ... . 9. Charleston' harbor .. :............................ . 10." Key W ~st .. : ..··........·..·...........····.· -11. Connecticut nver ......·.· ·..·..··...···.·...... 12. No. 2, Mobile bay ..·.·...··..·..·..··.....·....

_.e .... ;.

'

nh'f nh'f TWhlf 111-h"f i11h11 nh11 nh11 nh"f nh"f

4. LIST
·No.

OF SKETCHES AND PRELIMINAUY CHARTS ENGRAVING.

1:

2. 3. 4. 6. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14-16. 17. 18. 19-26.

Seacoast of Delaware and Maryland; plate enlarged · by electrotyping additional engraving, work of hy·d r-ogra phic parties .............·............. r n1"f"fl1 Beaufort harbor .....................··........ n h f Preliminary chart of Humboldt bay ...·..........· nh"f Preliminary chart of the harbor of Key West ..·... T7r111"fff Sketch of the entrance of the Chesapeake ......· ~ .. T1111'-lf"ff Re-engraving Nantucket shoals ....··..·...·...... Irr11'0 f f Chart of the harbor of San-Diego. Entrance of San Francisco .·........·..·....··.. nJ'lfff Savannah river, vicinity of Savannah .......·...... n h f Savan nab en trance ............................· 1rlf hf Mobile- bay ..·...·.............·........·.· ~ ..·. Tlf1J1"f'lff ~ull's bay, ro~engrayin,i; ..............·..... ". ... nhlf Entrance to Columbm nver .·... : ..............· nhf· New· edition of McArthur's chart western coast. Point Pinos, view. View -of mouth of Columbia river. · Eight maps-of progress and geographical positions. APPEND IX No. 12.

Lia~

efgeographical positions determined by tlte United States Coast Surv"CY·

The present list contains those geographical positions determined by . the Coast Survey of the United States which may be supposed to be useful to the ·navigator, the geograpner, and the surveyor. '!'hey etll" brace all the ·trigonometrical point~ of the coast survey, determined up to July, 1850, and also positions of n number of prominent objects determined by means of the plane-table. · . · · For the purposes of the survey, the coast ·of the United States JS divided into eleven sections, in all of w bich the work is carried. oJl "simultaneousiy. The survey being in different stages of progress in tb 6 several sections, and new resnlts being added from year to_ yc:flf to those here given, the same divisions have' been adopted in this pul>· lication. The several sections are defined as follows : . Sec. I. -From Passamaquoddy bay to Point Judith. · Sec. II. From Point Judith to Cape Henlopen. Sec. III. From Capo Henlopen to Cape Henry.

S. ,Dot. 8.
IV. From Cnpe Henry to Cope Fear. V. From ,Cupe Ji'eor to the St. l\fory'11 river. VI. From the St. )fury's river to St. ·Joseph's 'bay. Sec. VII. From St. Joseph's bny to Mobile bay. Sl'.'c. VIII. Frorn. Mobile bay to Vermilion bay. Sec. IX. From Vermilion boy to 1he Rio Grande. Sec. ' X. Const of Culifornin, Snn Diego bay, to 4.2d parallel.
Sec~ Sec. Sec.

168

~ec. XI. O~ast of Ore$on, 42d to 49th.1wrallel. ·. . . . · 'rhe tables give the latitudes and longitudes of the tngonometr1cal points in each $ection, and their relative azimuths, or bearings, and distances. 'l'bc manner in which these data hnve b1>.en obtuined may he briefly explained here: ' In each section a base line of from five to ten miles fo length 'is llleusured with ull possible accuracy. A series of triangles, derivh~g the length of their sides from this base, is then established along the ~oast, by the measurement of the angles between the intervisible stations. In this primary series the triangles are made as large as the n~ture of the country ~vill permit, because the liability to el'ror increases With the number of trmngles. On the bases fumished by the sides of the primary triangles, a l!et'ondary triangulation is next established, extending along the coast, a11d over the smaller bays und sounds, and determining a large number of ~oints at distances of 11 fow miles npurt. l'he dista1wcs between the points thus determined, as ~iveu in the tubles, are linblc to an average error of about one foot m six miles, Until n finul adjustment between the b11se lines shall have been· macle. As, on the completim1 of the primary triangulation in each section, the severnl series forn1 one connected chain, the different bases afford '7'l'erific11tions of euch other, nnd of the triangulation connecting them. he first three sections are thus connected at present· . Observations for latitude and azimuth arc made at a number of statio~1s of the primary triun~ulat ion in each section. The d,iffo~nces of lahtitude 1 longitude, nnd rtzmrnth between these and other stations are t en computed, under the supposition thnt the earth is a spheroid of i'7olution of the follcnving dimensions, which are those determined by easel from ull the mcasurmnents made to the present time, viz: Equutoriul radius=6377397.16 metres. l')olnl' radius =<>:36607~ " 1":1~ Eccentricity = 0.0816968 · . Tt hb.s been found that the difforcnccs of btitucle nncl longitude, llS Cotnptlted in this m1mner from the Oistance and aiimuth between tWQ Stations, and which ure oaUod geodetic, difI(Jr from those obtained?'f?Y ll8t1:ononiical observations at the sovcral stations, by quantities which are. greater than the errors of the observations. Such disagreements ~re dlie to local irregulurities in t11e figure and density of the earth, and the error resulting from them in the determirllltions of latitude aud of i e meridian plane is designated us station error. It amounts, accord· a~ to ~he results obtuine~l ut present, to betwt'len one and two seconds in ahrc m tho eastern section of tlie survey, and to about half a second t e sections south of the Delaware. In orde1· to eliminnte the influence· of station errors on the general

$.~

D(lc. 3.

results, observatiq~s are made a.ta number of stations; tbe result&·af8' referred to a qentral station by means. of the geodt;i~iq differences, ~nd f;he mean of all is used for the computation of the positions giveJi in the tables·.. The geographical positions must therefore be considered as liable toJuture changes, from the accumulation of new observations, and the final discussion of all the results obtained. . . The differences of longitude are obtained, as has been stated, hy computation, from the distances, latitudes and azimuths of the triangu7 lation. In adding up these difforences, from. station to station, an accl}.:ipulatio11 of the unavoidable errors is highly probable. 'f hey ate cp.ecked, however, by differences of longitude, determined by means of the electro-magnetic ·telegraph, in every section where the introduc· tion of the latter makes it practicable. · SEATON S'.I'ATioN, in Washington city, 11as been selected as the centre for the telegraphic differences of' longitude. The Sections at presen~ connected by telegraph are Sections I, II, III and V. . The fir.st three being also conne~ted by triangulation, the check on the geodetic c)iflerences of longituqe is here obtained, and the agreement is very close. The longitudes from Greenwich depend uyon that of Cambriclg~ observatory, as determined by chrcmometnc differences bet')'een Liverpool and Cambridge, and by occultations, eclipses and moon culminauons, observed at various observatories in the United Stutes, and ·referred to Cambridge by means of telegraphic differences. The following statement shows the result up to the present time:

!fongitude of Cambridge from Gret:nwicli.
~y moon culminations observed at Cambridge, Hudson,
~y

h.

m.

.
28;4

Ohio, Wilkes' observatory, and National Observatory 4 eclipses and occultations at Cambridge, Brooklyn, .·. Philadelphia? au~ Wilkes' observatory. · · · · . · · · · · · 4 ·J3y chronometnc differences.. · . . . · . · · . . · . . . . . . . · . . 4 The longitude adopted for the present is 4h. 44m. 29.os.,
2~ 11 .60.

44

44 29.6 44 30.1 or 71° 07'

In Sections IV, VI, VIII, IX, and X, the longitudes are counted from some central station in each. Sections IV and VIII will soon be connected by telegi;aph with Seaton station and Cambridge. In Sections VI ang.j:l, the longitudes from Greenwich will for some time depend upon 1"is!xa~t determmations. For the p1'esent we have the following data: ·
' . 0
II

Sec. IV. Stevenson's Point, west of Greenwich .····.... 76 See..VI. Cape F:lorida ······.... ditto. . · · . · . · . · . . . . · so ... " " Sand key ······.··.... ditto .. "·············s1 J3ccs. VIII and IX. Fort Morgan, Mobile Point. . . . . . . · · 88 Sec. X. Coast Survey observatory, near San Diego .·.. *117

10 43.6 06 00

62 43 00 26
13 22

Explanation

ef the tables.

The first column on the left contains the name of the several station~ or triangulation points. Their general ·locality is indicated by tbB'
· Corrected from dato. to November, 1852.

S. Dd'c. 3.
lieading at the top ofthe page, by means of which they will' be readily found on the sketches accompanying the ·tables. Sub-headings iµ the first column indicate the. locality more minlltely wliere it is practicable.
The stations a.re generally either prominent objects of permanence, such as spires, light-houses, beacons, &c., or they nre the points on Erominent hills, capes, or points ofland, where signals have been erect~d . ot· the purpose of the surve:y, and which are ma~·ked on the grpui~d. In a small number of cases m. the first three Sections, out much more frequently in the southern Sections,. where settlements on the coast a,~ $parse, a11d few .{'Crmanent objects are to be found, the Stations have l?O ·~ther distiuguishmg mark than the signal erected on the spot; and aftr,r ats decay, the mark left on the ground, to designate the station point~ The latter generally consists of posts or stones set A.round the point. 'While the ~entre of the station is designated by an earthen cone or gla~s .bottle buried urtder the surface of the ground and mn.rk~d on top l:>y a ~tone or post. Where the station is on a rock, a. copper bolt, or a hole filled with lead or sulJ?hur, will be found to designate the exact spot~ 'rhe sketches showmg the configurnlion of the land,. as well as the !elntive positions of the stations, no ~reat difficulty will be experienced tn finding tbe lnlter, when desired for local surveys qr reference. In any case where minute descriptions of particular points are required, they can be had bv application addressed to the Uoust Survey office. 'l'he second and ~tlfird columns contain the latitudes and longitu~e8 ()f the stations named. The fourth column contains the azimuth of the line joining the stnti~n named in the first column to that named in the fifth; thnt is to say, the .angle which that line makes with the meridian of the former station, teckoned from south around by west, through the whole circle. 'rhe sbcth column gives the back azimuth of the same line, or the angl~ Which i.t makes with the meridian of the latter stn.tion, reckoned. before; the difference between the azimuths in the fourth 11nd those in the sixth ~~11mns. bjing 18.Q~11less the il!®n~ Jll ~~·.meridians at the two stations. W' ·7 : t'llt /'"' .Air The seventh, eighth; and ninth colinnns give the distances, in metre11, .Yards, and miles, between the stations named in the first and fitlb icoiumns. The relation of the metre to the yard used in obtainin,g these resuJf:jl is- \ \,If .··#'" " ... ':' c · l metre=l.093669G~ard, or 39.36860 United States~tnndard inche1e . For each station the azimuths and distances to two other stntions are, ~\'en. In every case the lines so given have actually been observe~. . In each section the stations of the {>rimn.ry triangulation are gi'Vfn tn a separate table, in which all the distances and azimuths obserye~ are given. Whenever these primary stR.tions a~rwards occur ip. the ~olu1nns of the general table, they· are clistinguished by being prmtecl ln small capitals. . 'rhose points wliich are marked with an asterisk ha,:e been determined by means of the plane-table; their positions ru-e not n~ accu:tte as those of the trigonometrical·p.oints, and are liu.ble to be 111 .crro.r out three metres, 01· ten feet. ·

as

D',,..

N11JD6 of station,
0 , ,,

:Hus Bur; f NorthEnd.... · ~South End....

42 03 04.5fl 4154477)

Beaconpole ·· ., ..... , ······
Great ~ow Spencer

41 59 4o,i4
41 52 43.00

Hill-.-····--

·

lDJJ ........ , ·····

Copecut Bijl · " ,; ........ ..
Poeauet Bill--···· .·......

"""-i
414~15.ofl
41 39

'"·~
[

I
71 1111.3'

133 18 13.6 143 21 13.1 s-i 39 37.9

Beaoonp<;le Hill .············ Great Meadow Hill ..···..... Spencer Hill ...··.·.··.·.·..

313 O'l 36.2 323 14 56.0 262 22 17.3

44424.6 218.51.7 36474.8 43665.9 I 13397.7 25343.7 25251.7
55396.S 41452.8 28il6!L8 20490.8

48581.4 23895.4 39801.7 47751.7 14651.3 27715:1 27614.5
605.'~0.2

)[cSparran

:am...... ···-··

(129

44.~

7l 27 03.8,

'

150 235 9(1 175 180 232 231 171

41 02.5 09 31.9 39 17 22 .7
33 46 43 IO

33.31
I

Beaconpole Hill.·····..····. 330 3-'1 43.o 5..'l 14 48.S Copecut H~ll ..······..····· 1 Spencer H:ll ·...·· · ·.···.· · l 276.27 29.7 Great Meadow :am .......... 1 355 16 22.8

27.13

~.·

8.32

15.75
1~-~
25~76
34.4~·

qrwter Hill...............

.U 34

55.J

71 J4 57.;

60 226 160 213 l~

ns

~-81 Be~ooµpole Hill .·····.······ 4'1' .4 Copecut Hill. ·········..··· 41. 4 Pocasset Hill · ., ···.········ 20.7 , Spencer Hill ..··..·.·...·...

10 26 24 33 54

,._, 12.5 36.5 29.5 42.8

1....-mn____ ., .. ··-· ....

0 33 46.5 53 02 35.0 515413.4 3510850.4
298 240 46 340 02 52.2 18 10.8 32 22.9 25 41.1 57 12.9. 5 fD 50.S 1

4~331.5

30696.3 22408.1 24751.9 21183.2 24488.2 53155.6 10248.8 36188.0

17.44 12'.73 14.06 12.04 13.91
·5-~

26 ~-~

1Great Meadow Hill···· --····

McSparran Hill..·.·....·.·. Copecut Hill. ....·. ,. ...... Beaooupole Hill.. .·...·····. Pocasset Hill.......··..·...

33

22634.1 19370.7 22392.9 48607.4 9371.9 33091.6

30.20

~-5'1

·SMU>n L-Priman_/Statirms.
--li-?ame __ o_r_mmo_·_n._ _I:·-_r.a_tttn_· _a_l_/j. _·

I Longitude.~ I
70 40 19.;; · 70 35 06.s(

Azimuth.

I

To st.ation-

I

Baek azimuth. Distance.

I
I
I

Distance. {Distance.

Cuttyhnnk

--·······--··--·11: 4~ ~ ~-~l 7~ ~ 4~.J. ~ ~ ~-6 ! ...·.··········. I 30; ~-7 j.' I I Quaker HillHill ...··..·..··.
l
II
101 02 57 .4 162 33 25.3 41 25

-----1---~

Indian Hill·.··.. --·---....
lfanomet Hill.............

.

4; MeSparran I 280 42 11.5 Copecut Hill............... 342 28 24.0 315 20 50.1 267 17 11.2

Mares. 32270.l

4.(4i9.3 I 35008.51'

«

135 36 03.3 Copeent Hill ... ---· .... .... 1 Cnttyhnnk Hill............. 87 27 21.3 1

41 55 36.M--

..t"J
Shootftrinc Bill .·····.···..

. /

4141os.lf1 10 20 28.3' I

I

I

59 44 29.0 Copecut Hill ............... · 239 25 42.9 7 20 44.5 , Indian Hill ·.··.········.·. -1187 25 16.6 96 18 51.2. Beaconpole Hill .... ··;....... 275 44 22.8

l

45457.4 21430.4

49710.81 23435.6

28~24
13.32

45184.91 49412.8 55754.3 60971.2 71625.4 78327.4 39601.0 33672.7 53642.2 37951.2 36776.9 54693.7 76863.6 54491.2 65657.3 70700.0 95990.1 47647.2 31066.0
94076.8

BlueHill...................4212 4t.9'fl 710631.M.i 305 57 30.7 ~et Hill ·..· ---····-·] for.~ 125842.7 GreatMeadowHill .····.··.. 1 i 1 490849.0 BeaeonpoleHill ..······..... j ' ' 4.,J. ~ 14 53;2 . Copecnt Hill ........... ---· 1

· :

1

.I 1

44'1119.41 Indian Hill ....·.·.·.·...... , 2'M 04 09.3 -143 03 18.9 Manomet Hill.............. 322 53 33.3 12618 33.6 19-25435.5 2205518.9 17517 05.0

43306.4 36823.4 58661.5 41502.3 40-218.1 59811.4 84055.7 59589.9
71800~9

24-61 20.92
33_33 23.58 22.85 33.98

?
-~

0

~

'.l'hoalJ!oa'·Hill .·.....··

..I

I

'\1

42 36 40.oj

70 43

·
42 29 18.82'

2'i':9!1'"1

351 21 41.2 3.5 37 01.1

I Manomet· Hill ···· ······--··11712718.4 I mnemn.·-············--·- 215 21 21.9
146 50 05.5 116 02 50.9 82 14 20.0

47.76 ~.. 86
~~ ~)

Waehuaett ···· ··········-·

I

326 32 27 .9 · Beaconpole Hill............ 295 31 36.9 Blue Bill.................. 261 27 23.0 Thompson's Hill............

77315.4 1049il.9 52105.5 33972.8 102879.6 66116.7

40.80 43_98 59.64
29.60 19.30 58 ·1< .....

Holt'· Hill .··· ~::···.·····

45 55.6 275 55 16.7 335... 2' 29.1

TholDP!IOD'B Hill............
WUll~ ~~;;

BlneHill.... .·.··. .··.·· .. .

180 45 36.9
96 10 34.9
~ ~ . ,~

24 06 UA

Blue Hill··.-.···.............

···· ······ ···

,,,.,. .... 01 -

.«

6CJOSl2.8

11:34

·~.··

United Sta.tu Co<ut Suney.-Geogra.pl&ica.l

..

Poaitiona~

SecJion L-Priinaty Statiom. .Sketch .A.;;
To stationBaek azimuth. Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
0
I II

{c:i

.....

:fl:/

Name of station.

Latitude.
0 ,
H '

Unkonoonuc-'-Continued - ···

4258~.IM

Agamenticua. - ·· - ·· - ···.···

43 13 22.00

'1I ·

!

J Longitude..·

Azimuth.
0
I
H

I

300 09 31.2 313 48 08.9

Thompson's Hill ··. _-···--·. Holt's Hill ... _..... _. - .. _. -

,

120 44 31.0 134 07 47.8 249'36 11.1 207 27 51.7. 182 35 24.0 146 172 74 244 218
07 03.1

Metres. 81461).7 54750.9

Ytn'tls.

89083.0 59873.9 84953.9 79838.7 74407.4 74594.9 5879-2.6 46627.6

M"ilu. 50.61 34.02

Patuccawa ········· -·- .·.··

43 07 1I.9t.

..

·

70 12 56.0 Unkonoonuc ·······.·······. 'l7 44 48.J. Holt's Ifill ................. ·. 2 36 56.7 Thompson's Hill..···........
325 352 254 64 39

77684.9 73007.4 68040.8 68212.3 53762.1

48.21 45.36 42.28 42.38 33.40 26.49 21.95 55.93
38.52 28.77 39.70 70.43 39.66
25.~

47 02 15 34 02 44 22 32 25

58.6 52.8 13.4 32.8 42.5 17.3 46.4 51.5 20.0

Thompson's Hill ·............ Holt's Hill .............··.. Agamenticus · · . · · ·······.·· Unkonoonuc ·..·.··.······.. Wachnsett .···..·····..··.·

06 34.9 35 57.6 18 31.1 34 35.4 35 17.3 29 51.9 00 46.2 51 32.1

--~~89ooo6.6 61990.5 46306.8 63900.7 113350.7 63832.1 40747.8 .. \ 38850.1 88809.1 66699.8

rn
~
~

·~:z-

98428.5
67790.9 50639.7 69879.9 123956.9 69804.8 44560.5 42485.3 91119.0 72940.9

Gunstoct ·················

Ossipee ·· - -- ······.······· lfount Independence ·······

' 70 44 06.IJ\.
~.

'

'

16 342 300 332

Unkonoonuc ········· ~ ·····. 196 Patuccawa ·....·...·...·.·. 162 Agamenticus .·····. , ···.··. . 12i Thompson's Hill ·...··.... : . 152 Patuccawa ··.·.··....···... Agamentieus · · · · · .......... Ossipee ···················· Gunstoek · · · · · · · · · . · · ·.·.·· Agamenticus · · · · · ···.······

~

35 35 53.5
354 26 42.5

215 17 05.0 l74 28 42.7 240 36 56.2 252 03 08.9 206 40 'l7.6

70 18 53.04

-j
NARRA.G.ANSE'IT BAY.

JilcSp.&JUU..'{ Rn.I. ··· - ·····. '
QvAUB. 1ln.i. ··· · · ····

---l

71 27

03.~

n

14 57

.fl

'

'

60 54 21.4 72 46 35.8 26 55 49.0

24.14 55.18 4Ll4

.

···· -··· ··-··· .····· ··--·· ·.······ -··· ··.. ··--·· ········ ······ ···. ······ ·············

60 26 12

McS\>IUTall

Hill.............

240 18 ll

19370.7 . 2U83.2

·

l~.04

United States Comt Sun;ey.-GeograpAical Positi011S.
Name of st.adoD. Latitude.
:'.) I ,,

~itm

I.-Narrogo11sett Ba!f.

Slcetch A.

Longitude.

·:'-_A_zim_n_th._...,_/___ '.l1_o __ station-_· _ _ _ _ l,,_.Back __ 8ZIDI_·_ut_·h_ .. 11-Dman_· __
0
I ,,

~_.

·>--Distirl-· "_·

·_"'_,_JL_~ __
ee.
M"tlu.

,t,

o

,

,,

I

POCASSET---- ····· --·· ····

41 39

en.2f

71 11 11-34\ 7111 17.31 71 26 58.43 71 14 05.17
11

51 54 13 33 57 13

I McSparran Hill.···· - · . . · · · .
,,.,.

l

· ;~ 1 43 41 Quaker Hill .·..·.· ,,,,. !".. . . . . 213 54 43

&

0

,

,,,

MetTM.

28069.8 9371.9

Yanls .· 30696.· 3

17.44
5.B'J

10248.8
246.29.7

:East Rock.

Seoonnet ·.·····

41 Zl 02.41 41 4ll 31.71
41 40 23.95

102 55 51 160 44 22 21 26 301 48 55
90 50 15 42 30 52

McSparran ~ ·· -- · -·.. Quaker Hill. ··. " _· . · · . · · · . . McSpamm HilL.. .···. ··.. Quaker H!ll---·-· ··-··· ....

282 45 24 340 41 56 180 21 23 121 56 56
ZlO 41 41 222 22 15

22522.3 15449.5 19958.6 19655.2 17885.4 2b721.2 11170.7 12065. 15315.9 17160.7

16895.. 1
21826.1 21494.3 19559.0 29-i21.5

13.99 9.60 12.40 12.21

Whitman·-·--·.···-··-···
HoontHope ········· ····-· Nootu Hill ···· ·-····-·....
Xinnient .; ········ ··-· ····

Whitman.·-·--·····-·......

McSparran Hill.. __ ·........
East Rock . . . . · · . . · · · · · . . . · Quaker Hill . . . . . . · · . . . . . . . .

16.60
6.94 7.50
9~52

11.11

41 32 10.78 41 47 45.7'11 41 45 12.32 41 47 32.29 41 46 40.02

en 04.82

31 38 29 114 53 22 29 05 03
322 31 56

211 35 41 294 48 09
209 01 29

12216.0
13194.5 16749.0 18766.4

71 21 36. "

Whitman ··.··· ·-·· ·······. Mount Hope .··.· - ···..·.·.·

142 36 57
210 08 24 125 45 35

10.66

Amold.... ··.· ···· ···· ···.

71 23 20.79
71 23 12.421

30 IO 48 304 39 25

Whitman .··· _. · · · · · · · · · · · · · Mount Hope...... . · · · . . · · · ·
Whitman .······· - · - ···· - · · ·

10011.8
l~.3

10948.6

17084.1
15294.5 20000.9 . 15Zll.3 .:16571.9 3311.0 2608.9
.1467.2 J

,6.22
9.71
8.69 11.36 8.68

Fort Jilc1ependenee .·· - .···.
'~<

21 56 40 316 12 26
35 35 01 319 54 55

Mount Hope...... . . · · . . · · . .

201 54 10 136 18 31 215 31 en 139 59 35 214 43 10 320 04 28

13985.8 18289.5

Pomham---··- ··· ··. ·····.

11 21

en .06

Whitman...................
Mount Hope................
1

9.42

71 22 06.12

34 44 00
140 05 13 61 01 05

Pinrtuet Beacon ·····

~....

·

41 45 33.40

71 22.29.99

I

Arnold.... · . . · . . · · . · · · . . · · . Fort Independence..........

1.88
1.48
~-

.Arnold ·· · · · · · ······· _· · · · ·

u1 oo 31 .

0.83

ft

United States Coast S'Uf'ffey.-Geographical PositimlS. '. Section L-Narragansett Bay.
Name of station.

Sketch A.
) Distance. 1 Distance. 1
Yards.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
(\

Pawtuxet Beacon-Coatin'd.
Pawtuxet Church . . . · · . · · · . Friends' College .·········· College Hill ..··.·..·.·.·.. 1

41 45 33.40 41 45 57 .21
41 49 58.45

: :::: I::: II:=~~~~~~~:~::~~~:] : : : 1:::: 1:: : : :::
' o ' '' u ' "

, ,,

I I Distanc~. :~~~~~·~~~~~~~~~~'·~~~~~-!-~~I j
Azimuth. To stationBack azimuth.

Metres.

l

Miles.

309 12 09 15 02 05 323 19 33

Mo~t Hope................

129 18 11

Jj247 .3

17767 .5

10.09

71 23 35.38
71 23 39.

Whitman................... Mount Hope................ Beaconpole .·.... .··... ·... Great Meadow Hill..........
1 Whitman...................

194 59 50 143 25 52 346 31 15 73 10 27 192 05 07 138 27 12 194 06 06 140 40 32

18101.21 19794.9 2'2081.3 24147.4 17880.21 19553.3 15841. 17324.0 16376.4 21734.3 16949.3 21623.8 17908.7 23768.0 18535.2 23647.1

11.24 13.71 11.11 9.84 10.17 13.50 10.53 13.43

166 33 15 253 23 08 12 06 45 318 20 16 14 08 00 320 33 52

Providence Congregational Church. Providence UDi.tarianChurch. Providence Baptist Church ..
Snnzey Belfry ·.··.····.·.

414910.78 41 49 25.78 41 49 36.78
41 45 01.~ 41 48 38.!f 41 45 32.75

71 24 29.83 71 23 59 03 712411.16

Mount Hope................

I
j

! Whitman ....·..·····.···.··
Mount Hope................

1

I

3~; ~ :~
66 37 20 8 30 40 280 58 29 316 32 3.5

~D~:::::::::::::::::::: ~: ~:
Whitman ...·. Mount Hope .··.·. ···~···....

71 13 09.85 71 27 42.l\

~.'77······· ~::

2:!t: 2:"~:~
8597 .9 8777.4 5495.3 1416.9 \ 5490.o 'fi.61.3

}~~~:~ 1~:~
940-2 . .\ 9598.6

1~:~
12.97 5.37 5.M 5.45 3.41 4.64
3.41 2.58

Neutacuukanut · · · ·········
Hatty's Farm. ········· - ···· Pnispect Hill ...··........

Kinnicut ...···.···.·.....·· ftl 101 02 32 Arnold.................... 136 35 30

712414.861 221 41 41 140 13 03

I

I Kinnicut ...····.·.··..····. N eutacoukanut · · ····.······ Neutaooukanut ·.··········· \ Fon Indepeua.ence ··.· ~ ·.·.··

41 43 26 320 10 45 249 04 43

l

8mL

6009.

.u 49

42.43

71 23 59.89 \

69 07 12 344 43 34

1644406

I 6003.7 l . 455().7

l7nit(!I/ States Coast Buney.-GeograpAical Positions.

Becti_on. .£..-·Narragansett Bay.
To station-

Bltetcli A.

---N-·ame __

or_sta0_·_on.---J!1_Lati_·_tud_e._
0 , "'

Longitude.

[

Boilock'a Neck ···.······· · 1 41 44 40.74

7;

2~ ~-71 15~ l~ 4~ I
107 28 11 19 4218 323 07 42 21 06 13 335 59 54 29 04 29 67 13 22
320 49 08

------!~-------'---~!
Fort Independence.......... Arnold....................

Azimuth.

{

Back azimuth. , Distance. / Distance. / DiStanctt.

2; 287 26 42

33~ l~ I ~~31 -::Oi~t ~~ l
3247.21
· 1 3551.0 1

;

!

1--2.01 14.30 9.39
16.90 10.75

Rocky Point ·············· · 1 41 41 27.51
Nayat Light ··············· ,I 41 43 27.91

I 71 20 01.31 i I

I

712129.051

McSparranHill ·.··.··...··. Quaker Hill................ McSparran Hill ·.·.···.···.. Quaker Hill ..··.·.····..·.. McSparran Hill ..··.··.··.·.
..Whitman ··· --- ·· - ··· - · - · -- .

199 33 36 14312 02 201 01 32 156 03 16 208 57 35 247 06 32 146 52 08 237 23 47
342 20 25

23()-23.7 25178.0 15121.9. 16535.8
I , .27213.J__

r;,;;,- ---,
17310.7

Warren Spire ··········.·. , 41 43 46.291 71 JG 41.73 I . I ·Prince .············.··... ! 41 44 32.451 71 18 35.21

I
High Rocks ···············

57 29 2'2 71 25 47 .84 162 21 12 253 11 11

Mount Hope .······...····.. Whitman .·· - -- ······ - ··· - - . Whitman .····· ············· lloont Hope .···.·.···..···.

41 37 45.36

!

I 29387.7 32465 .5 I I54US.8 16916.21 9885.9 I 10810.9 I l:L'l{)().71 15092.0 I
', 5395.1
16977 .2

29759.4 18930.4

18_44 9.61
6_14 8.57

73 18 58

I 18565.71
I
879fl.5

!

5889.0

3.34
10.54
10.99 8.78 4.99 7.31 7.16

P<ijack ··.···············.
I Wanrick Neck ...···...... ' Warwick :Light ············

41 39 02.741 11 24 oo.99

1

I 13 23 58 I 259 44 34
I

MeSpamm Hill .···········. Mount Hope .·····.···....·.
Irigh Rocke ······ ······ -- ·. Mount Hope .·.··.·····..·..

!

193 22 01 79 51 l4 214 55 09 98 19 56

1169.t.3119349.9 14145.0 15468.6 '
8039.4 /

41" 18-941 41 39 5j}.26 I
41 39

71 22 28.75 71 22 22.35 71 23 15.21

34 58 21 278 14 22

11168.51 12869.71

I

W arwiek Beacmf ·········.

22.821

i

I

256 09 54 312 16 50
16 33 25 112 23 16

Mount Hope ...··..····...·. Quaker Hill ..··...·........ McSpamm HilL.. . · . · . . · · · .
Whitman ··· - ······ - · · · · · · · ·

85 15 25

132 21 46
196 30 53
292 20 48

11525 0 I 12603.4 , 13932:5 15236.2 ! I >. l

i

1.8602.91' 20343.61
5583.2

l'ltieaee Island ··········

..I

6105.6 '

JLOO~,
6.10

8.65 ;; ';:~· "\..

3.47., ~

41 39 31.271 71 21 03.57

260 25 53

Mount Hape···············. I

80 30 31

9s13.6

l

10731.6

;!'

United 8tate.1; Coost SurtN!!l.--Geograpkical Positiom. Section 1.-Narrngansett Bay. pketch A.
Name of mtion.

I
\

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0
I

1

Azimuth.
0

To station-

I

Back azimuth.
0

Distance.
Mares. 12017.9
5461.8 8815.6 5406.8 14327.0 9660.6 9270.5 10994.9 13130.4 14222.l 9529.2 4931.5 7'203.4 4437.8 8343.1 2794.4 9850.9

, ,,

/I

,

Patience Island-Continued .

413931.~

71 21 03.57 7117 41.50 71 17 46.73 712014.80
71 21 38.64
71 18 21.57

315 05 53

"

, ,,

~rnMiles.
13142.4 5972.9 9640.5 5912.7 15667.6 10564.5 10137.9 12023.7 14359.o 15552.9 10420.9 5392.9 7877.4 4853.1 9123.8 7.4'1 3. 39

Quaker Hill ············.··. Mount Hope ..······..·····. Quaker Hill . · . · · . . . . · · . . ·..
Rocky Point .···.·.··...·... Quaker Hill ...······.·.···.

135 09 57
66 24 04 154 28 21

Pappoose 8q1lllW ··········· Rum. Stick ·····.·········.
Pine Hill .·········...··.·. Hope Island.············.· Prudence ·.·············..

413913.01 41 42 21.86 41 37 58.27 41 36 08.10 41 36 22.22 41 38 38.19 413911.78 414010.48 413f28.32 41 M 21.18

246 21 40 334 26 33 71 57 18 344 06 09 242 14 43 307 30 34 137 43 35
233 00 37

5. 48
3. 36 8. 90 6. 00 5.76 6. 83 8.13 8. 84 5. 92

251 54 50 164 08 02

Mount Hope .····.··.···.... Quaker Hill ·····.·····.···. Whitman ······.········· -. "Mount Hope ..·..····..····. Whitman ·················· MountHope .··.··.···.···.. Prudence ..···.···.·.·····. Quaker Hill .··...··...·.... Mount Hope .·············.. Quaker Hill ·.·.·....·.·..·. Mount Hope ··············.. Quaker Hill ........·...··.. Quaker Hill ..·········. ---McSparran Hill ...·....· - ·..
Quaker Hill ·····.······.··.
~Rill-~·-·"·"

62 18 49

127 34 05
317 40 01 53 05 38
302 42 45

122 48 29 218 29 05
31 44 21
342 45 04

38 31 56 211 43 07 162 46 05 595423 161 35 58 81 27 39 170 54 05 87 23 36 174 15 38 86 22 28 183 60 26

Hog Island .···············
Castle Island Beacon ······ -

71 16 29.52 71 16 51.13 71 16 04.64

4. 48
2.76 5.18

3. 06

239 52 33 341 34 42 26126 20
350 53 20

Brist.ol Court-house ········. W-lddiml Hill ············.
Wldl.IOm
~ire .··········.

3055.9 10772.7
9615.7

·

1.74 6.1 2 11.0 l 5.46
10:12

71 27 41.76 7126 39.08

267 15 08 354 15 12
200 14 43

'

3 60.42

..·...

l

17725.8 8792.9 16288.7 &il7 .6

........ \
17812.S
. 93<17 .'1

5.31

___ N_ame_o_l_st_a_ti_on. __

~ r ~~~e.

W-iekiml Light .··········.
:Batty ··················

1

,,

0

11,,

413413.70 413211.01

1 Ii

71 26 01.70

··1'

i,.

712215.271

1

,(__

A_zim-,uth-,-~-l---'.l1_o_m_ti_·o_n_ _ _ _ ,_B_ac_k_azimnth_· __ ·,
I

9 50 52 101 01 2'1 157 01 35 216 41 07

0

/._Di_·stan_· _ce_. _Distan_· _._ce_.
1

,_D_ist_~_an_ee_.
Mi/u.

McSpamm Hill............. Wickfurd Hill .···.. ·.·· ·..·

281 00 21

" 189 50 JI

o

/

MdI:U.

Yards.

8421.5 2361.5 16779.0 18973.0

9209.5 2582.5

5.23 1.47

Qoonaett ··········· ······ 1 41 35 24-361 :124·12.15

! i: ~:
1695500
228 01 59
I

=t
I I

Whitman-----·········-··-

Mount Hope...... .· · . . . ... .

336 58 21 36 46 33

~9:0
...,,

48 _3

10._ 43 11 79

~~:.:::::: ::::::::::I 1~ -~ ~

l::~ l~:J:~
8501.9 19856.4 9297.4 21714.4 9227.2 }0090.5 4148.91 4537.l 7086.3 6308.4 4918.3 11912.7 .7749.3 6898.6 5378.5 13027.4

l~:~
5.28 12.34 5.73 2.57 4.40 3.91 3.06 7 .40

Foxlaland ················ 1 413314.011
I

I

112443.53

HighRocks ·.·.··.·.·····.. \ 3495417 Mount Hope................ 48 09 03
McSpamm Hill............. 200 4429 WickfurdHill .·····.···.··· I 2713844

~

Spinc1le ···················

413424.421 7124 42.73
I

20 46 03 914043

··~
,!>

Prudence South .·······.·

-1

41 34 42.24

711911.96 '1:10035 45 42 20 01

1
8la:te Hill ····· -··.······· - ' 41 32 1s.77

I I

ConaDicut Neel:... . · · . · · . · .
Gould Island ········ - · · · · · ·
Miant-ODODlf ··-··· ···· ····

41 34 22.64 41 32 02. 06 41 30 34.80

i

11 15 38.621.19113 oo 271 08 04

1 Quaker.nm .... -········---! I Noot.aa Hill ····· - · - ·· - · - · - - · i

Qooruiett 280 3221 Batty ···············.·····. 1 22217 59

···--·--·---------!

?

1113 28 91 13 44

71 21 58.91 71 20 21.03

233 44 36 293 24 28

! Prudence ·····..····.·····. !I
SlateHill .···..·····.·····.

53 46 59 11328 39
19 02 08 85 31 14

6239.3 9604.1 8488.8 6565.9
12300.7

6823.l 1-0502.7

3.8T 5.96 5.72 4.07
7.65

I

I
7118 16.441

199 00 49 265 28 08
82 50 44 146 45 45

, Prudence.................. Slate Hill ···..·· ____________

:928:u

'l@J.:.2

Hazard······.···········.

41 28 20.99 , 7118 56.591 102 54 57 192 42 45

I lfiau)!uomy ·····.·········· I

I:::-~~~~~~~~~~~~::

McSparran Hill.............

: : : ::::
12 4311

262 4i 55

13480.1

4231.6

~;~: 1;~:-. 1.:1 2.'62 ~C:O
4627.5

United States Coast 811TTey.-Geogropliicnl Positions.,_ Section !.-Narragansett Bay.
Name

Sketch A.

of station.
i

Latitude.
Q
I II

l Longitude.
-0--,-,-.

J

i 71 19 37 .34 ! 342 29 28 i Miantonomy. .. . .... ... . .... so 51 37 I Batty ···.····..··.······... 1 1 I Rose Island ····.··.·.···· - i 41 29 45.96 I 71 20 13.441 240 56 ~ 11\Uantonomy... ... ...... ... . j j 325 46 08 I Hazard.................... i Poor Honse Belfry ....... --1 41 30 24.62 71 19 22.31 258 22 00 , Miantonoruy .. .... ...... ... . ' 351 06 16 I Hazard · . . . . . . . . . . . . . · · · · · .
Half Way Rock ............ 1 41 33 47 .60
Ii
J

-r-o-,-,,-:

Azimuth.

_ _ _ ___ o_sta_ti_ou__ _ _ _ ,_n_ac_·_k_aznn_'_nt_h.1 Distance. / Distance. \Distance'. 1 MdTCS. 1'Gro'$. ) Miles.

~

~:

o , ,,
:

:;~:g ! ~::;
3103.9 3169.5 1559.8 3859.9
3394.3

i

~=:
1.92
1.96

60 57 39 145 46 59

3466.1
1705.7 4220.9

Goat Island Light ...... ..

41 29 33.83 i 71 19 18.U 412845.25

1

I

78 22 44 171 06 33 271 44 06 167 28 50 33 36 43 119 39 22 54 52 40 99 57 08 290 02 59 22 43 19 293 01 2" 38 09 56

I

Fort Adams, ( fiag staft") ·····

I
II

j 91 49 15 I 347 28 36
213 35 41 44
23i 5o 21 279 55 14

I I McSparran
' II d
·1

Hill.............

7119 53.25 71 21 46.89

Dmnplin ················.. i 41 28 43.42

I
!
j

! i 299 38
!

1·Mi=n~~;::::::::::::::::. Hazard ··.·..·.·..···.···.. ,

10805.911 11817.0 2301.7 2517.l 4057.6 1512.7
5009.0 4010.9

I I

0.96 2.39 6.71 1.42 2.52

4437.2 1654.2
6527.5 4386.2

0.93
3.70 2.49

~ g
·

i

i

Telegraph ········.·······.

!
j
i

u

27 45.56!, 711950.64

I no
J

07 47 202 42 17 113 05 20 218 08 0-2 34 00 06 S-J 00 36

Castle Hill ········.······. ( 41 27 50.76

l
j
,I

71 21 07 .81 71 18 28.70

I
,i

Newport Spire ·····.······. :,. 41 29 12.23 1

I "* lleaverTail Light ·········· !

1 ·125~·.ss·1 "'*

IM~Sparran I I
l'
Mian.

I Miantonomy ................ ,
Hill............. Miant-0nolll)-...... . . · . . .. . . .

i Hazard ·.···· , ·····.·..···. j M~arran Hill............. 1

, Miant-onoruy . · · . · · · · · .. · · · . .

10699.31 11700.4 5659.51 6189.0 8975.1 6435.0
1'

6.6t
3.51 5.57 3.99 25.9-J 11.74

9814.9 7037.1

, Beaoon Hill. (See. II)....... 213 49 04 Tifi"s Hill. (Sec. II) ....... l 261 51 42

71 23 38.451I 137 47 00

. MeSparran Hill.............

.
11.eewg

227 41 13 HOUBe mn ·······. \ 41 26 43.09 i 712813.oo '\ 17 .5'>5 48 \ ·\ UO «> 4S

\

\

l

7087 .9 47 44 46 . 10097 .0 31550.9 Beacon Hill. (Sec. II) ...·. --\ 197 51 12 550.\.6 lrili'a.Ri\\:· (.Sec. Il)·--···· ~ M '21> . \

tonomy ......... ~--- .....

I

317 44 43

I I

41721.91 45625.8 18888.1 l :.0655.5

_I

! l

7751.1 11041.8

6.27
19.60
3.42

4.40

34503.1 0019.'1

Name of.station.
Boston Neck ···············

Latitude.

4~ ~ 1;.sa I 71 25 44.491 ! I
41 ~ 28.041 71 12 2!Ul5 41 42
~-07

I i

Longitude.
c " ,,

l
i

i

Azimuth.
0
I
II

Tiverton Steeple·······.···

I

I
I

50 00 13 145 50 34 157'53 21 35 54 52 62 29 49 30 48 41 44 40 11 314 41 47 40 47 19
326 32 08

I
I

I
l

To station-

, Meeting Honse Inll .·······. 229 58 35 McSpa.mm Hill ........·.·.. , 325 49 40
~

I I
!

Baek azimuth. / Di.Stance. / Distance. / Distance.
0 " -...

,

4821.3 3276.1 5857.2 5822.1 8884.1 7536.1 8459.4 2717.5 J 9180.7 3411.9 4797.5 2571.1 4685.0 4827.2 2877.5 5698.3 ' . ! 6553.9 I 5095.3 j 3452.3 4226.2 9449.0

Y.....

5272.4 3582.6

.,.,,,._
3.64 3.62

2.99 2.04

Fall River ··········.····.·

Slade ················ - - ~ ·.
Somerset :Meeting House ·.··
Inackbeard .···..·....···.. Mattapoiset ··············· Toweset ················..

l 71 08 24.451 I ! 41 43 39.041 71 09 4S.02 i 41 44

09.351

71 09 45.84

I !
!

41 40 26.68 I i l 10 ~.76 j - 89 00 21 17 33 45 I 41 42 38.29

l
I

I
' 1
I
!
!

I l I

I Mount Hope ·..·······.····. 52 18 1 Quaker Hill.. ············. · I 215 53 14
1ronnt Hope ················ Poca.Met Hill ····.····.···· -

6405.3 6366.9 9715.4 8241.3 9251.0 2977.8 10039.8
~31.2

i
l
(

I

242 26 02 210 46 50

5.52 4.68 5.26 1.69 5.70 2.12 2.98 1.60
I

Mount _Hope ···.···.···.·.·. 224 ~ 20 l Fall Rifer ·..··.·····.·.···. : 134 42 43

! 1112 30.70

I
I

I ,M'.ount Hope ··············· -1I l
-

Mount Hope .··········.··. · 220 44 26 Fall River ·.·· - · · - . · · · · · · · · · I 146 33 0-2

268 58 03 Pocasset Hill. .··.·········. 1 1!1i3322
'

5246.4 2811.7 5123.4 5278.9

.

CQ

41 41 57.041 71 14 12.70

I
i
i

I 327 27 47 44 i Mount Hope ···············. I 207 46 41 14 25 I BlaekI>eard ···············. - j 147 15 39
356 31 42 299 15 57 8 11 ; Prudence ··.··············· : 259 00 I I i I ' lfount Hope ·············.·. 1 333 03 ~.---···············i 216 13 i . ! i Quaker Hill .·· · · - - · - · · · · · · · 242 25 l Noow Bm .·..·.·.·.·.····· I 164 48

2.91 3.00 1.79 3.54 4.07 3.17 2.15 2.63 5.87 6.08

Butta ···.·····.······.·· "·

41 36 53.651 71 14 45.51 1 188 11 00 i 79 02 56 ! 41 38 44.171 7112 57.59 i 153 ! 36 t I 41 ~-16.1a 71 08 55.431 62 344 I
I

i l i lfount Hope .····.·····.···· l
I

Mount Hope ···············. I 176 31 47 Blaekbeard ··· · · · · - · · · · · · · · · 119 18 20

I

I

3146.8 6231.5 7167.2 5572.1 m5.3 41621.6· 10333.l

26 31 50 08 54 39

~~1 ~--···············
Cornell ············ ·······

04 36 14 20 29 55 47 27

I

IButts ..

' l

I
r
I

!

l 9780.2

to695.3

United States· O~st Sun:.ey.-Geogrcq11iicol Position!.
Name of station. Barker ·· ·· ··.· ·· · · · . · · .· . Latitude.
OIH

Section L-Narragansett Bay.
To .station-

Sketch A.
Distance. Distance.
l'ards. 5452.1 8468.6
M"iles.

Longitude.
0111

I

Azimuth.
0111

41 38 20.80 41 35 21.01 41 32 48 .80 41 32 31.37 41 29 34.43 41 29 57

71 11 45.59 71 10 49.28 71 12 38.42 71 11 29.39 71 16 08 15 71 12 02.90 71 10 39.64 71 09 57 .27
71 09 13.13
71 06 51.10

139 38 41 345945 154 08 15 82 07 04
140 28 29 208 17 23

Mount Hope................ Quaker Mount Hope. . · . · . · · · . · · · · · . Quaker Hill................

I , Hill................ I

Back azimuth. Distance.
0 , ,,

~~~~~1--~~-1-~~~1

319 37 08 214 57 38 33i 06 05 262 04 19 320 26 57 28 18 36 312 37 01 266 07 24

Metres. 4985.6

7742.2
10386.3 5799.2 5054.4 5333.0
6548.0 5789.2

3.10 4.81 6.45 3.60

W-.mgs ·· ·· ·· · ·· · · ·· · ······
High Hill. . . · . · · · . . · . · · . . .
Wmdmill. ······ ·· ··· . . ··· . Gibbs ···················.

11358.2 6341.8

Quaker Hill.. . · · . · · . . . . . . . . Wings . · . . . . . · · . . · · · · . · . · . . Quaker Hill...... · · . . · · · . . . Slate Hill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . East Rock. . . · . · . . · · · · . . . · . Nootas Hill................. East Rock....... · · · . . . · · . . Gibbs... . . · · · . . . . . · · · . . · . . .
Noot.as Hill.... ·. . . . . . . . . . . . East Rock..... . ·· . · . . · . . . .
McSparran Hill............. Mount Hope . . . . · · . · · . · · · . . .

5527.3
~-0

.

3.:n

3.14 ·

132 39 20 10 11

86

7160.7 6330.9 8987.l 14753.1
6032.0 6270.1

4.06 3.59
5.10 8.38

304 46 16 249 00 05
3AS 55 52 82 46 31

124 49 29 69 06 05 168 56 22 262 43 47
69 26 14 186 30 42
266 26 42 342 32 26

8218.2 13490.8 5515.9 5733.6 5321.2 7692.4 23848.4 19160.0 5783.7 3682.4 4064 .4 3416.5 3295.2 12540.7 <.' · ,'

Church's Point .···········.
Little Compton............ Little Compton Belfry......

.861

3.42 3.56
3.30 4.77

41 31 10.15 41 38 31.37 41 29 30. 05 412959.44 4131.\3.89 ..
I

249 23 51 6 31 fYl

5819.l 8412.l

1

~~}: ~

Simmons·········· - · · · · · · · .
~--·--·-··········
'Elariage··················

210 57 58 147 00 02 175 32 25 74 37 24
~~55

Nootas Hill ..·.·...·.·..... · Little Compton · · · · · · · · · · · · · Nootas Hill. · · . · · · · . · · . . . . . . Simmons..... · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Nootas Hill . · . · . . . . · · · · . · · · .
~

I

30 59 23 326 59 04 355 32 16 254 35 49
284 34 44
~~is

l

26079 .8

20952.8
6324.8
4444. 7

14.81 11.90
3.59 2.28

4026.9
3735.8

2.52

2.12
2.04 'l.79

710447.15 \ 104 3615

ltooL.,................

3603.5 U714..l

Latitude.

f

Longitude.

Azimuth.
Ol'f

To station-

Back llZimirt.h.
01'

Dist~. / Distance.
Mdre1,,

.Di.stance;

....
~

0'H

0'"
71 01 28.68

Almy········· ..··.. ·····BUZ~'S

41 30 40.04

109 47 4-5 63 52 06

BAY.

.t.
412512.'f 41 30 53.f!J 412917.85 41 24 50.117 .... 41 21 54.58

J
705541.nlf'

CurTt:&o:aa ...... - ........................... ..

T.

1235639.6 QnakerHill ...··..····.··..
101 02 57.4 350 45 10 70 25 28 247 07 22 310 48 40 101 23 58 133 10 39 219 19 40

·

NootMHi1l................. East Rock ..··.····.···· ----

289 44 02 243 4-5 35

8277.9 15214.9

Yards. 9052.4 16638.5

M"iks.

5.14 9.45

..
MeSpammHilL............
Cuttyhunk · · · · · - ········· - ·

3034353.7 280 42 11.5 170 45 58 250 15 57

32270.l 44479.3 10664.9 21232.9

35289.6 48641.2
11~.8

20.05

27.M
13~19

'Mi·liamn Point ............ .
~berry Neck ···········

70 56 55.31 71 01 58.49 70 56 39.04 70 44 29.83 70 44 12.16 70 48 59.62 70 51 45.44

6.·63

East Bock .···.·.···· ····-lfishautn Point ..····.······ Cuttyhunk . · · · · · · · .········ EaatBoek ----- ........... .

23219.7 8343.2

67 10 43 130 52 50
28114 17 313 03 44 39 22 26 291 19 22 244 11 04 141 17 41

76'29.3 11565.l

12647.3
22739.l 21750.4

4.74 7.19
12.9-2 12.36

Cuttyhunk µght ·····.····.

N<J<Jtu Hill ................ Indian Hill.................
Cntfyhtmk . - · · · · ·········· Cuttylmnk - · · · · · · · ··········

ProqectQill.ltartha'aVme~

9171.9

10030.2

5.70
10.41 11.04 5.36

ill2646
41 29 22.81 41 M 54.42
41 25 28.73
M 18 40 321 15 07

16755.8
17761.4
8631.9

18323.6
19423.3
9439..&

l!T&llllhou ····· - ·· ······· ·· ·
Weat Js1aml · · · ·· · · · ·· · · · · ·
Nuhaweaa.......... ······

Indian Hill....... · . . . . . . . . .

326 63 49 272850
84 51 10 192 24 42

Nanshon....... ······ ·.···.
Cnttyhunk · · · · · · · - ···· - ·· - -

146 56 59
2117 24 24

12207.9

13350.2

20'.222.1
5502.9 17868.9

22114.3
6017 .8 19540.9
2956,,5 14991!2

12.rn
3.42

7.59

Cuttylinnk · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

West .&land................
Nanshon .···· ···· ···· ······ West hland...... ...... ....

264 48 34 12 26 32

11:10
1.68 8.52

Tll'pllUl:in Cove Llglat ·······

41 28 05.69

70 45 <Y1 .52

208 21 15 156 54 44

2821 52 336 $ 10

2703.5 13708.5

United
Name of station.

States Coast Burvey_.-Geographical Posit~.
Latitude.
01"

Section L-BuzztiJrd's Bay.
. To station-

Sketch A.

Longitude.
orn

Azimuth.
or,,

Baek azimuth. , Distance.
0 , ,,

j Distan~:
Yams. 17071.7 16307.9
9758.5 12902.3

Distance.
.M"iles 9.70 9.26

Nanshon, SW. ··· · · ·. . · · ·· .

41 26 59.60 41 26 55.60 41 26 55.93

70 46 58.80 70 49 43.25 70 55 05.76 70 55 29.47 70 54 57.93 70 59 07 .98 70 50

117 37 58 169 11 01
239. 22 48 :121 {i2 43

Mishaum Point............. West Island................ Nausbon ----- ···. ···. .····. Prospect Hill .....···... ·....
Cuttyhimk. ··· . ···· ·.·· ···. Mishaum Point . . . . . · . · · . . . . Cuttylnmk .·.·· ···· ···. ···. West Island................ Misbaum Point . ·· . . ·· · . . ·. · West Island · · · . · · . . . · . . . · . . Mishaum Point . . ·· . . ·· . . · . · Round Hill .....·...·... ---Cuttyhllllk ····· ···· ··.· ···· Misbaum Point............. Cuttyhimk .· : ·········· ---West Island................ Roimd Hill................. West Island................

297 31 23 349 09 41

Metres. 15611.0

14912.5
89'23.6 11798.4

Pasque ···· ·· · ··· ·· . ·· · ·.. Penikese Island............
:RoundBill................ RoundBillLight ···. -·---·
Pamanset River ······ ·----· Scontieut Neck------·----· Clark'11Point ·· -----···---· Clark.'11PointLigbt......... ·

59 26 27 141 56 10
194 35 30 340 53 42 181 12 13 6'2 37 31 227 09 16 59 29 48

5.54
7.33

,
413222.!;8
413215.66 41 31 38.43. 41 35

14 35 52 160 54 53
1 12 21

3292.4 7768.0
13265.4 10174.8

3600.5 8494.9
14506.6 11126.9 4057.6 10540.7

2.05 4.83 S.24 6.32
2.31 5.99

242 33 10
47 10 38
239 25 50

3710.4 9638.8

294 03 33
254 55 52

114 05 01 74 58 17 199 49 24 227 17 48 188 12 10 100 02 45

3368.7 5244.5
19277.9

oo.46,...
..

59.~

3683.9 5735.3
21081.7 12272.0 21108.5 727'1'.3 6940.4

2:09 3.26
11.98 6.97

~

l

19 52 31 472144 · 29 279 59 37 22 55 55 280 00 56 350 52. 20 262 36 40 278 45 39

112"22.0
19302.3 6654 .6

41 35 31.96
41 35 32.07

70 53 42.57 70 53 42.77 70 56 06.96

li.99
4.14 3.94
4~U

202 54 43 100 04 04
170 52 44 82 38 16
\

6346.5

6660,0
6478.9 3371.9
'f390.5.

7283.2
5990.8

~(gray spire)----·

41 3517.92

Ronnd Hill................. Clark's Point.··--·---·- --- .

3687.5
8082.0 661>9.9 \

3.40 2.10

~ 00 l.B

\Sconticut Neck .······ -----· 98 49 08. "BouuO. Hi\\~--~--··-~--- ·... \ l.'l(} 00 48

\\(\9\)~0

4.59 3.78

_;.;;;.~~~~~~~-,-~~~--'-.-~~~~-.-~~~~-:-~~~~~~~~~-,-~~~~---,-~~~-;--~~~..,--~~-

Name of statipn.
NewBedfiml.(beacon)...... NewBedfonl. (fort)-------·
N~ Bedfurd, (Baptist

Latitude.
0 '
II

· Longiiude.
0
I "'

Azimuth.
0
I U

I

To statioll-

I

Back azimuth./ Dist.ance.
c / ,.

/Distance. /Distan~
Yards. 2192.9 4470.2
3812.8 6500.9 2.17 3.69 5.18 8.48 6.74 4.41 14.95 16.60 8.18 5.03 0.59 4.46

41 36 31.43 41 37 24.87 41 38 10.17 41 38 07.62 41 34 00.27 41 38 26.80 41 35 22.92 41 22 39.58 41 35 50..92 41 33 12.81 41 36 13.65

70 53 07.60 70 53 49.25 70 55 15.86 , 70 53 57 .73 70 38 09.44 70 45 34.16 70 48 43.66 70 28 41.13 70 36 44.21 70 36 51.16 i 7.0 38 35.741

23 48 54 313 20 31

Clark's Point ..··· ·----·--·· SconticutNeck............. Clark's Point- .····. -------Sconticut Neck·------......

203 48 31 133 21 56 177 27 20 138 33 06

Metnl8. 2005.3 408i.7 3486.6 5944.7 8338.6 13654.6
10853.4 7099.9

Xtks. 1.25 2.54

357 27.16 318 31 13 314 32 40 9 43 13

spire).

Sconticut Neck ..·····.·.··. 134 35 29 MishaumPoint ...·.. ---- ---· 1 189 42 06
Round Hill. .··..· ·--------- 1 191 16 49 144 25 30 Sconticut Neck-------

9118.8 14932.3 11868.9 7764.3
26314.2 29219.2 14409.6 8853.6

Fair Haven, (black spire) - ··

11 17 52
324 23 31

---·--1

Swift's Bill .··· -----------·
Angeliea Point······ ------West Ia1and, 2 ······· -----Sampson's Bill, (Martha's Vmeyard.) Falmouth----------------Falmouth Spire ·········· --

213310
77 40 42

1 Mishaum ·······.· ·--·-· ---1

Prospect Hill ..... ----------

201 28 58 257 28 15 128 38 57 215 57 44
202 46 40

24002.7 26719.1
13176.7 809tLI

308 34 03 36 00 00
224655 217 41 59 109 26 30 198 28 16 14 57 25 335 17 57 19 16 31 27 00 19

Swift's llilL .···.·.·······.· West leland ···············.

.

Ci:)

1 West Island ..·····.······.. J Angelica Point .····· -----· ·.
Indian Bill.::....·..... ---· Shoottlying Hill............. Indian Hill ..····· ·--------Sampson's Hill.............. Indian Hill ·.····· ---------Prospect Hill .···········...

953.1
7171.0 17192.4 35966.9 19360.7 26859 .6

37 44 05 289 18 49 18 33 43 194 55 03 155 23 18 199 14 13 206 55 16
260 20 25

1042.2 7841.9
18801.0 39332.1

10.68
22.34

21172.3 29372.9

12.03
16.69 9.10 14.59 9.10 2.58

14648.6 16019.2 23474.1 1125670.6 14652.5 4;J.59.G 16023.5 4548.S

Bog I.s1and Harbor------...

80 27 19

351 34 34

West Island ···············. SwiA's Hill ······· -~-..:----··

1n3450

Name of station.

Latitnde.

Longitude.
0 .· ,.

To station-

Mattapoiset Neck · · · · · . · · · .
Mattapoiset, (gt"ay spire).... Ned's Point Light.......... Wild Harbor · · · · · · · · · · · · · .

l

0

,

.,

I
J

IRack uimuth.1 Distance. j ~lstanee. \Dlstanc~
0
I N

0

·

I#

41 :r'I 44.40 41 39 41."17 41 39 01.15 41 38 20 .112

70 47 50.12 70 48 51.12

I i
I

17 04 00 297 09. 32

West Island~............... Switl;'s Hill.................

197 OS 14 117 15 57

Netres. 5484.6 15119.3
8866.2 5110.3

l'ords.

5997.B
16534.0 9695.8

Kil.s.

S.41
9.39

296 53 29
S45 55 48 276 00 17
655604

116 21

West Island................ .Angelica Point............ .. Naushon .····.. ······ .····. ' Wud Harbor · · · · · · · . · · . · · · .

181 16 15 116 55 40 165 57 56 96 06 01

5588.5

5.51
3.18

70 47 24.92

i

1

18391.0 20lll.8 . 12032.31 13158.)
]5519.3 9-i05.7
9807.6 4867.9 5671.9 4608.9

70 38 47 .81 1

Wenamnet Neck ..········.

I

91 18 44
62~58

West Island...... . . · · · . · · · . 945 49 18 Angelica Point .·····.·.··... I 271 14 14 Angelica Point. · . . · . · . · · · · · . Wild Harbor ·· . · · · · · . · . · · · . 241 58 49 171 16 Ol'I ll26 18 23 81 28 06

16971.4 10285.8.

'

ll.43 7.48
9.64

S.84
6.09·

rn
r
:.0
0

41 40 55.S9

70 39 19.77
70 42 36.84
70 45 26.71

351 15 44
46 20 21 261 25 55

10725.2 I
5323.4 I 6202.'T 5040.1

t:f

s.02
2.83
3.52

Sippiean Neck ············· 1 41 40 33.78 Sippiean Church ··········.

41 42 07.77
41 39 57 .IS 41 40 o; .50

Scraggy Neek ·············.
l§nl Island Light ·····.····.

I

70 38 54.3S 70 42 42-93

I

I

326 01 25
~3536

I

Angelica Poi!lt... . . . · · . · · . · · Wenaumet lSe.$...... ......

Swift's Wenaumet Neck............

Hill..... ...... .. ....

146 06 16 104 39 40
342 02 59 177 07 04 231 59 54 9 51 25 ll05 04 36 79 53 21
~5 24 49
\.<,&\} ();\ ~

18126.0

8768.51

19822.1
~-0

11.26

5.45
1.19 1.86

I

162 03 'tl9 357 06 56 51 54 48 189 51 21
259 59 10

Wenamnet Neck............ Wild H:llbor · . · · · .. · · · . · · · · Angelica Point.......... . · . . Sippiean Neck . · · .... · · · · · · ·· Angelica Point...... · · . · · · · .

1908.7 2009.3 I 5034.3 822.7
~.8

2087.3
3279.9

! I

5505.3
800.'7

0.bl

3.fa

Charles' Neck ············.
Gttl8.t llil\................. .

41 40 19.45 \70 44 28.85 \
<\1.
~ ~-1.~

25 05 23

&ppicaa Neck..............
Angeliea.Polnt,..... ···. ····
-w~~ 1'~----··

4195 ...8
274.9.f>

2514.2 \

. ,()

~

r.9.'.&

~ ~ ~ ~ ()\. ~

......

9126.1'> \
6-\10.~

Name of station.

Latitude.

Longitude.

'I'empe's Knob ············

.I

0

f

,,

41 42 56.31 41 43 31.14

I

lndian Neck .............. .
Cromeset Neck ........... .

::::::I
70 42 59.3.5 70 38 24.151 70 36
~-22

0

,

,,

I
I

I

Azimuth.
0
I

,,

!

I

To stationWenaumet Neck ...········. GreatHilL .................

Back azimuth.
0
f

Distance.
Metros. 3716.I 4952.8

,,

357 12 14 80 59 52 54 46 52 33-2 51 57 275 40 51 285 14 53

177 12 ~ 250 57 31

Distance. / Distance. I Yanls. Milu. 4063.8 2.31 5416.2 3.08
3.509.2
5&..~.6

Great Hill ................. · 1 ~ 45 37 Wenanmet Neck ............ 152 53 08 Indian Neck ................ 95 42 07 Tempe's Knob ...··...····.. , 105 17 12 Great Hill .................. \Venaumet Neck ..····.··..·
Long Neck ................. Wenaumet Neck .··..·····.. 242 32 48 191 38 46 305 3.5 14 2-2'2 17 11 186 51 25 114 « 36 264 40 19 2113815 199 !l2 58 356 07 51 212 43 43 245 58 06 312 37 11 2-22 53 22

3208.9 5377.4 2636.7 5072.8 7162.1 6365.l 3266.3 58.".S.0 3276.6 9491.4 4077.1 2676.7 13017.7 24385.6 7309.9 14614.7 6475.4 5647.4 2838.4

1.99 3.34 1.64 3.15

.u 43 39.61
41

2883.4 5647.5 7832.3 6960.7 3571.9 6406.2 3583.2 10379.5 4458.6 29'l7 .2 =-8 .4 7993.9 1598-2.2 7081.3 6175.9 3104.0
ln'l11~7

Long Neck ............... .
Back mver Harbor ........ .

«

18.07

I
414316.44 41 45 ll5.os 41 44 30.31 41 42

62 35 51 11 39 23 125 36 3-2 42 19 05 6 51 36 294 40 27 84 42 16 31· 38 54 19 ll5 02. 175 06 51 32 45 37 66 04 30 132 39 :28 425607
830335

.

4.45 3.96 2.03 3.64

Warebam, (Baptist spire) ·.·
M:onumet Church ·········. l'ine Hill ................. .

I I

70 42 42.41 70 35 28.45 70 33 37 .3.5

I

Cromeset Neck ............. Back-River Harbor ...·····..
Long Neck ......·········.. Back River Harbor ..·······.

2.04 6.90
2.53 1.66

28.991

Faimouth ··.············.. )lanomet ..................

8.09 15.15 4.54 9.08
4.l)2 3.51
1.76
5~ij6

l>ooaaset Spire ............ .

41 41 39.341 70 35 56.86

South Poeauet Spire .······ I 4140 a.u2

l i 70 36 01.58
70 36 46.02

North Falmouth Spire ·· · ···

I

41 38 31.16

116 Ql 2i

I
i

i Angelica Point ·············· I Tempe's Knolt: ·······.·····
Wild Harbor ·· _···· _····· _.

WUd Harbor ·······..·····.

I.;

Wild Harbor ...............

Sin· l!ledt..............

i63 02 21 .

l!Mi7ii

&a.9

&ction L-Mart/ia's,;;Vincyard. Bketch A.·
Name of station.

Lati~de.
0 ,
.!I

I

Longitude.
0 '
II

.Asimnth.
Q
I H

To st.ation-

Back azimuth.
0 , ,,

Distance.
Metf'U.

Distance. Distance.
Yard$. 8667.7

Wood'sHole ·············· Naushon,Northeast. .··· ····

413136.59 41 30 33.51 41 30 55.03

70 39 20.32

58 39 03 7 12 07 223 09 16 131.<34 52 11 02 35 90 01 07

Naushon ....·.········.··.. Indian Hill.................
Swift's

238 35 49 187 11 28
43 12 07

79'..!6.0 10946.8
8746.5 12135.9 9759.l 24956.0

11971.1
9564.9 13271.4

M"aks. 4.92 6.80 5.44 7.54
6~06

w

42 27 .68

Hill.................

West Island................
Indian Hill . · · . . · · · · · · · · · · · .

311 30 32
191 01 42 269 49 15

Nobska Light.-............
MARTHA'S VINEYARD.
!J(m:A..'f I{n.i. ····· ----. -· ·. .

70 38 58.94

Mlslumm .····..···· - · · · · · · .

10672.3 27291.l

15.51

41 25 44.51 41 21 54.58
41 15 09.43 41 20 26.76 41 20 48.05 41 20 5Ul6 41 22 39.58
\

70 40 19.45

135 36 03.3 87 27 21.3

Copecut . ··.. ·.·· ·... ····.. Cuttyhunk . ·... .··. ··.. ·...
Indian Hill................. Cnttyhunk ·.··. ·····. ······

3l5 20 50.1 267 17 11.2 39 22 26 291 19 2"2

45457.4 21430.4 9171.9 16755.8 13670.5

49710.8 23435.6
10031).2

28.24 13.32 5.70 10.41 8.49 13.15 3.69
~

Prospect Hill..............
No Man's Lanq .·.· ···. ··.·

70 44 29.83 I 219 19 40 Ill 26 46 70 48 27 .98 70 48 17 .27 70 49 52.76 70 49 47.33 70 28 41.13
\
_

18323.6 14949.7

203 52 54 151 35 49 242 50 42 170 33 19 181 06 57 254 40 37 180 29 01 255 16 40 109 26 30
I

Prospect Hill............... Cnttyhunk · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Prospect Hill..... . . . . ·. . . . . Pasque ··.· ···· .··... .···.. Pasqne ...·········.···.··. Prospect Hill........···.... Pasque ..·. .·.. .····. ····.. Prospect Hill ..... ···-...... Indian mn. ... . .... ... . ... .
S\l.®tft~ 11ill . · · · - , - · · ·.-.

23 55 3J 331 31 03
62 53 12 350 32 22
l 07 02 74. 44 IO

21161.6
5940.3 12159.8 11340.0

23141.6 6496.1
13297.6 12401.l

¥olashamn..... ···· ···...

7.56
7.04

Gay HeaiL... ···· ........
GayHeacl.Ligbt............
61iln\*1~8Hm---·· " ! - · - - - -

7781.2
11220.8 7628.8 17192.4
~.9

8509.3
12270.8 8342.6 18801.0
-~.l

4.83

0 29 04 75 20 10 289 IS 49
l(i

6.91 4.74
10.68

'-

· - , \ 1~ 28 16

.3?. 43

22.34

Name of BUltion.
NasbaquitEa Cllif.. ··· · ·· ·· .

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.
01,,

To stationProspect_ Hill.. .·. ···-. -- ·..

Back azimuth. Distance.
0 , ,

Distance. Distance.
Yards.
M"lles.

o'"
41 19 58.06 4120 49.93 41 20 45.09 41 23 49.52 412316.41 412513.79 4127 12.93 41 28 52.07 41 28 55.43 41 28 02.59 41 28 02.51

o,,,
70 44 06.08 70 3617.07 70 3112.86 70 32 34.66 70 30 M.51 70 26 44.37 70 35 58.90 70 35 56.75 70 35 49.48 70 33 29.62 70 33 27.72

171 16 09 256 51 55

Sampson's Hill.... · · · · · · · · . . Sampson's Hill.............. Indian Hill.................

351 15 53 77 02 06

Metru. 3636.8
22007 .9

3976.0 24132.8 12163.6 11600.0 17170.6 5457.4 18579.6 12423.5 21403.2 15672.9

2.26 13.71
6.91

WatehaPond ·············.

252 15 06 148 14 21

72 00

328 11 41

m-

11122.8 10689.'l 15701.4 4990.4 16989.8 11360.5 19571.8 14331.9

6.64

HerrlngPond........ ·····.
:Edgartown. ················
Edgartown Spire .··..····..

126 04 56 224 55 46
78 01 09 108 14 04

Indian Hill.................. Sampson's Hill..............
Prospect Hill .·········.··.· Indian Hill ..·...·····..···.. Prospect Hill ........... --.. Indian Hill.·.······· - - ······ Prospect Hill ·..··..··......
Naushon . . · . · · . · · · · · · . . . · . . W<i!>d's Hole................

305 58 54 44 57 26 257 63 17

9.76
3.10

10.55
7_()6 12.16

288 08 57
262 30 47 288 32 09

82 39 59 108 38 36
76 09 en 9-2 56 27 109 20 28 150 08 38 46 3113 94 -15 41

8.90
15.85 11.80

Cape Poge Light ········· - .
Holmes' Hole Spire........
WestChop................ We<itChopLight .·· 7. . . . . . .

hldian Hill .............. --.

2-'>5 57 21
272 47 !l8 289 15 01 330 06 25

25500.5 18947.7
1212.5.4 9379.9
8404~8

27886.6 20720.7 13259.9 10257.5
9191.2 12609.5

7.53 5.82
5~52

Indian Hill.................. Naushon...... ·..· ···· ·····.
Naushob ····· ··.· ···· ·····. Wood's Hole:...............

226 28 19 274 40 13
274 05 43 3i5 27 26

11530.6 11600.8 6972.7 10421.8
12005~8

7.16 7-!.!6 4.33
6.<(8

94 11 16 135 29 49
65 54 52
326 03 44 992803

12784.7 7625.1
11397.0
13129~2

East Chop ········ ··· · ····

IndianHill.................. Sampslin's Hill..............
Naushon ··················. WOQd's J:!ole·~···~· ··~·_- ...

245 50 21 146 06 55
279 20 56
308 53 26

7.46
9.42

East Chop Telegraph........

15153.8
l~ll.1

12S.57 20

16571.8 11494.7

6.53

United Staw Coast Svmey.-Geograplical, Positioni.' .Section 1.-Nantucket Found.
Name of station.

81cetch A.
Distance.
Metres.

I

Latitude.
0

Bowman's Point ············ Davis' Neck ................ Yonaunt Hill ·..····..···...

41 32 34.27 41 32 52.21 41 33 03.32 41 33 29.26

'

,,

I

Longitude.
0

70 35 44.56 70 33 27.35 70 32 11.18 70 28 14.95

'

,,

I

Azimuth.
0

26 47 35 331 47 11 35 57 39 340 36 38 39 57 46 345 45 59 49 35 48 77 21 27

'

,,

I

To station-

IBaek azimuth.
0

Dkmce.
Yards.

I~ce.
M"aks. 8.80 12.93

,

H

Indian Hill.....·.····..···.. Sampson's Hill ....····.···.. Indian Hill...·····.··.···..· Sampson's Hill ..··...··..·..

206 44'33 151 51 51 215 53 06 160 39 48 219 52 22 l~ 48 18 229 27 48 2&7 14 07

14157.2 20810.0 16200.0 20030.9 17648.8 19848.4 22087.5 15807 .7

15481.9 22757.2 17816.5 21905.2 19300.2 21705.6 24154.3 17286.6

10.12 12.45 10.97 12.33 13.72 9.82

Sncconoset ············.··· NANTUCKET
SOl.~"D.

.

IIndian Hill ..·..···.········· ' Sampson's Hill .·...·..···.·. \
I l
1

Indian Hill.. ·····.········. Wood's Hole .······.·······.

Hyannis ······.·······.···. Nantucket Cllif. .·········.. Great Point Light .··.······
S!mkaty Head ············..

41 37 51.17 41 17 33.56 4J 23 22.10
-----~

70 18 05.25 70 06 32.29 70 02 24.55

27 43 49 81 57 16 108 00 24 156 04 16 28 12 04 880538 95 04 58 150 10 57 50 59 21 69 33 15

Sampson's Hill.............. Falmouth..····..····..·.... Indian H"tll.················· Shootftying Hill.............. Nantucket Clift: ············. Sampson's Hill ........·..... Nantucket Cliff...··········. Great Point Light ··········.

207 36 47 261 44 53 287 38 04 335 55 02
208 09 20 267 48 16

31751.2 26168.0 49485.7 47667.9 12197.1 36651.0 12621.9 13672.0 8144.3 10372.9

34722.1 28616.3 54ll6.0 1 52128.1 13338.4 40080.4 138W.9 14951.3 8906.4 11343.5 5552.2 8324.0

19.73 16.26 31L75 29.62 7.58 22.77 7.84 8.50 5.06 6.45

-------

41 16 57.66 4119 31.24
41 16 51.38

69 57 31.89 69 59 34.52

274 59 01 333 01 44 330 57 29 249 28 39
87 50 14
~948~

SquamHead··············.

Great Point Light .·.·····.··. \ N"""'kot Clift"..···········.

Gibbs' l'~ -·-· ...........

. \

70 01 09 .94 \ 267 47 50 \ ·oo ~ otl

Sankaty Head.········.····.
l!\1Il)tuc).e~ C\Ui.. ·············

\

51m.2 7611.8

!\.l5 4.'Ja

tTnitetl Stmes, Coast Sun:cy.-Geograplrcal PositfOns.
Name of station.

Section L-Ntz;,iuc.let Sotind.. 'Sla!tclt A~
To stationBack azimuth.
0

I

I
I

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
£

Azimuth.
0

I
I

Distance. / Distauce'.4
.Mdns.

~lt·.

~;,'
~"

''

41 14 13.68 Forked Pond. ·············· I I

i
I
I

, ,,

, ,,

, ,,
42

70 00 42.12 70 02 35.55 70 05 16.42 70 06 28.09 70 05 39.00

221 10 51 172 25 19
298 55

I Sankaty Head.·.············ I Gibbs' Pond .·.····.·.····.. I Sankaty Head ··...·.·.·····.
I Gibbs'
Pond ..·····.·······.

t

,

41 12 57 352 25 01 118 59 02 154 06 26 53 22 23 95 21 34 118 57 28 156 36 11 242 32 02 312 07 34 173 51 35 89 32 32 330 18 16 269 13 09 101 07 29 65 40 32 183 26 37 109 08 08 117 17 45 70 05 54 1o7 35 16 114 52 02

"

6722.3 4907.6 8073.0 4559.8 7150.7 6414.4 9200.8 4199.4 1286.8 1671.9 4388.1 11278.5 13595.7 11204.4 7242.l 5967.6

I

Yanls .

-

M"ilu.

7351.4 5366.8 8828.4 4986.5 7819.8 7014.5 10061.7 4592.4 1407.3 18-28.3 4798.7 12333.8 14867.8 12252.8 7919.7 6526.0 5994.4

4.18 3.05 5.02 2.83 4.44 3.99

Coatne .··················. l 41 19 04.36
W eeweeder Pond.·········· i 4114 33.01 W-mdmill Range ········ ----1 41 16 37.95

i

3340529 233 19 40 275 18 33 298 53 40 336 35 24
62 32 34 132 08 09

iI
I I

I Gibbs' Pond .··············. · Forked Pond. ······.··.··...
Forked Pond......···..····. W eeweeder Pond....·······.
Wmdmill Range .··.··..···..

5.72
2.61 0.80 1.04 2.73 7.01 8.45 6.96 4.50 3.71 2.65 3.41 3.31 .3.30 10.07 7.11

!
Nantucket (Mitchell's house.)' Nantucket, (South towered church.)

41 16 57.19 41 16 54.45

70 05 36.~

s-

Nantucket Clift'. .···.·.······

353 51 24 269 27 12 150 21 27 69 18 27 281 04 08 245 :fl 58 3 26 44 289 05 41 297 15 31 250 03 32 287 27 57 294 47 07

8ankaty Head Light ·· ·- ··· · 1 41 16 59.13

69 57 35.09 70 IO 21.69 70 IO 10.69 70 13 45.40 70 17 37.04

j W eeweeder Pond ·..·.·.·... I Sankaty Head .····.·······. INantucket, Great Point Light ...··.···.. (South towered
I W eeweeder Pond. .·········.
j Wmdmill Range.··.·······..
, church.)
I i C1ad's Cove ···....···.···. Wiw1mill Range ··········..

co ·

Clad's Cove ·············.· North Pond ··············· ·

! 41 15 18.19

i

I
I

i

I
I

41 17 36.14

I
I

Further Creek ·········· - · - I 41 16 37.44

I Clark's Cove ·······.·····.·

...._,__····--·····!

41 20 ll.S3

I

I NorthPond .·.··.·.···..···. Nantucket

North Pond ··········.······

crur .............

16212.2 ! 17729.2 12508.o 11437.8

::1 I
5313.6 5833.3 5810.8.

426~.s 1 4!161.7

I

Vnited StaJes Coast Surt1e1J.-Geograpkical Positions.
Name of station.

SectU.m 1.-Nantucket Sound.
To station-

Sketch A.
Distance. \ Dil!tanee. Distance ·.. 1.----i---Miles. Metres. Yards. 7.19 11570.6 12653.2 13.00 21071.7 23043.4
22461.0 20627.0 24563.0 22557.0

\

Latitude.
0 , "

Longitude.
0 , ,,

I

.Azimuth:
0 , ,,

~~nth.
;'~&
Q

1:,;;.
I

tr

Tucb.nuek Telegraph....... Nantucket Light Boat...... Cotuit Neck ··········· ---Hamblin'sHill ·······

41 18 12.24 41 26 44.00

70 14 47 .02 70 17 05.00 70 26 22.88 70 23 52.27

275 52 30 113 06 57 319 02 ·· 176 07 -·
249 06 42 7 42 27

Nantiicket Cliff.............. Sampson's Hill.............. NantucketClilf ············· Hyannis....................

95 57 '31 292 57 46
13910 ·· 356 f'fl ··

13.96

12.82
7.66 14.$8
13.~

41 35 25.97

Hyannis.................... Sampson's Hill.............. Falmouth.·············· ---Hyannis ...........· : .··..·.
Shootftying Hill ·.··········· Hamblin's Hill ..········ -·-·

69 12 12 187 40 55
238 16 56 132 18 42

12327A

23949.1
20981.0 10849.7 7124.0 5650.6

13480.8 26190.0

------! 41 41 47 .77 Marston Mills. ············· I 41 38 47 .53
I

582529 312 14 51

22944.2 Il864.9

6.74

00
~ r.:>
~

I

70 24 35.73

233 23 08
190 12 46

53 25 51 10 13 15

7790.5
6179.3 6846.3 8252.3

4.42 3.51

0stenille ············.···· 1 4137 49.98 Ostenille Spire............
41 37 39.91 41 36 59.96 41 35 46.18 41 34 25.27

70 22 35.741 269 38 26 166 26 23 70 22 47 .92" 70 21 49.30 70 20 45.29
70 14 40.56

I so

Hyannis ·..·············· - ·· Hamblin's Hill .···.··..·.··.

89 41 26 346 25 32
86 59 18

6260.5 7546.2
6551.5 19650.3 5421.3

3.89 4.68
4.07

~

266 56 IO
13 33

IFalmouth -.········ - .· - ····

HyMnis .····.·············· Hyannis ....·...... - ... - .... Osterville ···.·············. Osterville .·······.··· - - ···. Hyannis ...··..·......... - - Hyannis ...···· - ··.··..····· Ostenille ···.···. ---- .·····
Indian Bill ···.·····.·.·.··· &unptl()U's Hill, ...._ ··.·· _ ···.

260 04 18
73 04 46 325 08 05 326 II 07 43 52 26
323 15 04

7164.5 21489.0

12.21
3.37 1.17 2.86

Ostenille Point............
Collier's Ledge............
Bishop and Clerks..........

253 02 17

145 08 36

1880.7

1

5928.6 2056.7 502ti.l 5847.5

l

146 12 20 223 50 40 143 17 20 II9 53 51

4596.0 5347.21
79-24.8

3.32
4.~
7~88.

299 48 35

I

l?oint Gammon Light. .·····. \ . 41 36 32.80 \ 70 15 38.81 \

595445 ;I'> .1,7 30

239 38 24 2150850

12686.0 \ 39726.7 43443.9 34405.7 31461.8

13373~~i

8666.3

24.68 19.$

Name of station..

{

Latitude.
0 , ,,

{ Longitude.
0 , "

Azimuth

{

To station-

-

{Back azimuth.
0
I P

Dist.ance. / Distance. Dist.anee. Metns. / Yards. 9156.a 1 10013_1 14796.0 16180.5

!~~~~~1~~~~~'~~~.~~~~~~~i

Point

Gammon.-------- ---.

Q

''

I

41 37 02.81

70 15 17.91

207 35 11 126 30 15

------1 fumbtin" HID-.. ···········
German Hill ··.·······

27 37 13
306 24 33

Kiles. 5.69 9.19

CAPE COD AND CAPE COD BAY. Genna.n's Hill ····· ----

----1

41 41 25.89 41 38 42.80

70 12 H.49 70 20 27.95 70 16 53 83

50 48 57 92 28 13 179 51 32 295 44 27 127 06 00 36 30 27
112 03 16 72 38 30

1 Hyanms ..········ ---- ------: 230 45 04 272 20 29 Hamblin'sHill ···. ------

----1
----1

10472.9 16148.0 4393.0 3664.4 6220.5 2779.9 10555.6 6789.0 5596.6 I . 5259.41 9649.7 3421.1
1·

11452.8 17658.9 4804.1 4007.3
6802.6

6.50 10.03 2.73 2.28 3.86 I.73 6.56

Centreville Church. -- - - - - - Hyannis Spire·· -------- ····

I

Hyannis .. ·---·--------- ----1

Shootflying Hill ..... ---- ....

359 51 31 115 46 02

41 39 03.62
i l 38 56.94

West Yarmouth
Bass

River----------·-- .... I 41 38 36.31
41 42 47 .89 41 43 19.01 41 42 13_09 41 42 00.30 Light _______ ----

Spire------'

l

Shootflying Hill ······· ------1 307 03 37 216 29 40 Hyannis .····· ·---·---·· Shootflying Hill. - - - - - - . - - -- - ' 291 58 35

3040.0 11543.3 7421.3 6120.3
5751.5

70 13 25.26 70 II 50.64 70 13 54.07 70 16 31.92 10

Hyannis.------------·-----! 252 35 25

4.22
3.48 3.27 6.00 2.13 4.26 6.56 2.01 4.49 2.69 5.41

59 00 11 173 58 42 70 52 42 317 41 48 52 57 _39 74 35 21 49 36 39 83 49 28
66 52 38 f!"l.29 40 -

Point Gammon ······ ---- ____ j 238 57 53 German's Hill ..··.······... '! 35358 26

Bus Hale .···· ---·-------~le

Shootllying Hill .············

250 48 20

BamStable,.(cupoia)---- ____ Bamiitable (Unitarian spire).

is 41.83

. I

German's Hill..··· -----·----

13i 42 54

Shootftying Hill .············ 232 55 02 Hamblin's Hill .··· --- - -- - -- -i 254 30 28

!
I

1

6849.9 i 7490.8 10561.7 i 11550.0

I

10552.6 3741.2

229 36 29 Shootflying Hill .....·... Hamblin's Hill ..··.. --·- .... , 263 46 01
246 50 44 Shootflying Hill.-----Hamblin's_Hill ······ ---- ----i 267 25 30

----1

-

I
l

170 17 36.28

3233.4 i 7220.4 4326.8 8702.6

------1

i
I

3536.0 7896.0 4731.7 9516.9.

United States Ooast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of mtion. Latitude.
Q

Sectfon L-Oape Cod ani! Cape Cod Bay;
To station-

Sketch A.

Longitude.
0
I N

Azimuth.
, 0
I "

Back azimuth. Distance. : 'Distance. Distance.
0 '
If

~ble ······.········. /

r

>/I

41 41 46.75

70 18 04.25 70 22 41.93 70 10 59.11

00 11 56
69 15 II 295 24 03 84_08 02 17 54 16 67 31 32 121 35 15 178 50 07

I Barnstable (west spire) .···· j 41 41 52.74 · i I Provincet.own. · ···· - ·· - ···· ' 42 03 06.41
i

Hyannis ...····.··· - ·.··.··. Shootflying Hill ...······.·..

180 11 55
248 59 12 II5 25 32 264 37 16 1!17' 47 54 247 15 24 301 18 49 358 49 47 2025653 321 54 20 342 51 15 254 38 37
285 37 05 348 15 36

Metrtil. 7265.0 3571.0 :

Yards. 7944.8 3005.1 3738.9 1787.1

M"aks. 4.51 2.22
2.13 I.02 26.61 22.43 24.84 21.59 14.82 10.08 . 11.64 9.57 10.76

Shootflying Hill .··· _·····... Hamblin's Hill .···········.· Shootflying Hill .····.······. Manomet Hill ···..······...
Manomet Hill ·.....·.·····. Provincetown..·······..·.·.

·

3419.0 : 1634.2 i

!

i
i

42820.9: 46827.6 36094.7 : 39472.1 39985.2 : 43726.6 34746.0 37997 .2
23857 .8 : 26090.2 16:2-24.0 17742.1

ScargoHiIL ·····.···.···. i 414420.33' 70 10 28.37
; i

l

Griffin's Island .············ ! 415612.30'
1

I
70 03 44.54 69 59 45.39 69 M 26.78

23 01 22 141 59 II
16'2 53 55 74 45 45 105 45 06 168 rn 29

Scargo Hill ..·.·...··.····.. Provincetown...··.·.··.·... Griffin's Island····..·..···.. Scargo Hill .·.···..··.. - ·..· Scargo Hill....... . . · . . · · . . . Mill Hill................... German's Hill ·.·..··..····.
1

MillHill ···········..····.

i
i

41 46 32.02

18731.8 · 20484.5 15397.5 ' 16838.2 17322.7 8931.9 18943.6 !1767 .7 3614.8 6983.9 2613.2 655Q.6 1677.1 1188.9 1717 .2 1109.6

Chatham.-····-· ········.. i 41 41 48.53

I

5.55
2.05 3.!17 1.49 3.73

' Yarmouth Port (spire) .···· .i
North Dennis ·····.·.·····.

I
!
1

41 42 22.77 · 70 14 15.70 41 44 40.22 ' 70 12 08.33 70 11 02.23 70 ll 00.«

I

302 02 42 235 20 24

122 04 02

Scargo Hill .·····.·· - ..····.

552255
104 47 22 181 21 44
304 56 13

I
l,

3305.5 6386.3 2389.6 5995.6 1533.6 1087.2 1570.3
lOU.S

I

284 46 15
1 21 45 124 56 50 255 41 02 122 33 46
~'Mf>\'>

North.Dennis (white spire) ·. ! 41 44 44.89

.. ,.. ' ·

.

j German's Hill ....···.····..

I Scargo Hill.. ...... - ...··...

' j
\

I North Dennis .·.·....······. ,\' Scargo Hill .···.···· _·.····.
-~Bill

0.95
0.68

75 41 31 30'2 33 08 '76 3t> 23

...:.. n.m.;, (<my ,..n.i .. \ u ...._..

North Dennis ·.· _··········. ·.··· ________ ···-

i
\

0.98

0.63

N11111e of station.
Slll'SUit Creek.---- ····

------,1-0-,~

I

Latitude..

I

Longmide.

f

Azimuth.

To stationSeargo Hill ...·· ·----·-----North Dennis .·.·... ----....

Back azimuth. ,1 Distance.
48 11 5.;J 57

---·!

41 45 ~I 70 ~. I i I
41 35

0 , ~,-'3;-·9'-.~-------1--9';-,-,,-:-,1.i--w.-~. ~·-"J:::a-:fMjc:-7/1'.~·--...:;r-="W'~~

I Distance. fDistance.
·

llonomoy ----- ---- ---- ·.

..!I

35.391!

69 58 41.50

I i

~ ,... 56 38

96 45 31 119 57 47

Point Gammon .·..·.····.... German's Hill ..·...........
German's Hill . . . . . . . ...... . Chatham ..··········.····..

276 34 30 299 48 47
309 02 29 4 32 23 2.50 01 13 1}6 56 53

Monomoy

Light.-----··--··l· 41 33 32.79 I

, 69 59 18.981

~: ;~ ~
70 06 10 2965048 93 44 53 532219

23221.4 21693.5 '
23130.31 25294.6 15341.4 I 16776.9 ,
II

South Dennis ·············

.!
1

14.37 9.53
6.84 8.86

41 39 04.47 l, 70 07 50.82 1 70 09 02.91 I

South Dennis (north spire) ·. j 41 40 32.12

I

I I
I

l
I

PointGammon ..·.·...·. ··-· Monomoy ........··.. ···--·
Shoottlying Hill............. PointGammon.......... .... Shoottlying Hill ....... ------

273 37 19 233 18 10 275 00 48 235 03 13 274 55 48

1

South Dennis (south spire)--!
~~- ..,.. '>,. "~_..

41 40 19.50

j'

70 09 12.071 70 06 40.95

·'... '·""' ..,.:, ,.... ~- ~:'!l~~·'\.5,'1~·\,........., .......... ~. ...---. I
\.

Herring River Spire .··· ----' 41 40 10.87
I·~-

~.~

:

~~
04 57

! I 15882.7 , 17368.9 tDiJ; j~9/LJ'l
I

I 11004.21 12033.91! 14254.1 15587.9

rn
0~
co
·

9.87 9.90 6.59

~-j\.- ~-

PointG~on..............

'ct

nannchPort ············. ( 413949.18 I
Marria'laland.

70.0344.87 69 57 12.25 70 01 20.41 69 57 18.11

721857 318 05 15 94 16 09 16 oo 30 282 05 16 336 18 45

.PointGammon.......... .~ ... J.!L~~-··· .... 252 11 15 168U
Monomoy ..·...·..·.. ··..·.
Harwich Port · · · · · · . ···.·.. , Monomoy ··.·..·····.······ I Morris' Island .. -- ·...·..... I Monomoy ···········.······ I Chatham .··· ____ ···. -·----.

Shoottlymg Hill.............

I 19206.1
1i6

115932.4 10602.6

I

i

17423.2, 11594.7.l 21003.2
1~ I~

11.93-. 10.4f
6.~

..!.4:'~:~. -----~-~'t

138 08 36
274 11 50 196 05 31 102 08 01 156 20 30 313 -03 25 177 18 48

------------11
1

41 39

27.39 I l

WeatChatham-------·-----l
Chatham Spire ·······

41 40 07.32

I

9105.3 7447.8 5870.1

l

9957.3 8144.7

5.66 4.63
3.65 5.69. 1.35 1.79

····--1

41 41 00.70

133 04 11 357 18 48

i llorria' Island·--- ·· :.--···-

~1.6

9157.81 2165.6

6419.4 10014.7 . 2368.2 3151.2 /

!

-<

a:)"': q;,·.·'1-·

United States Coast Suroey.-Geographical, Positi,()11$. &ctWn L-Oape Cod and Cape Cod Bar.
Name of station.

Sketch .A.
Distance. Distance.

Latitude.
0 , "

Longitude.
0
I
ff

Azimuth.
0
I
1'

To stationChatham . · · · . . . .· ··· .·· · . . Morris' Island·.............. Chatham ····..·· --~---···

Back azimuth.
0 , "

Distance.

Chatham, belfry.)

(Congregational

41 41

13.~

69 57 56.57 69 56 36.93 70 00 01.87

147 06 46 :w2 40 39 138 41 08

327 06 26

162 41 OS

I; IP-!k~ ~6d7':'~

it

Chatham South Light.......

41 40 14.~

it:.,..,.}
41 51 28.26 41 49 23.98 41 46 10.64 414730.34 41 47 20.60 41 51 08.79 41 51 96:54

Indian Brook..............
Eastham ·············.···· :Brewster·················.
Orleans ···················

"""'..e:;;;;:·=r=1~='1'ii Scargo If"tll ···· -········· -·
Mill Hill .·..·· ···········--

12.17 5.68
5804.7 19027.6

358 01 C5
57 29 15

Mill Hill................... Scargo Hill.... ······-······

178 01 10 237 22 12 46 27 20 84 11 35 150 1514 245 36 13 252 01 12 326 46 49 17i2530
2064345

3 ..30 10.81

70 04 24.94 70 00 29.93 69 56 25.21 695638.94 69

226 24 19 264 08 29
33014 44 65 38 50 72 03 25 146 4.1) 14 3572520
264550

Eastham................... Mill Hill .······· ···········

86.53.5 6489.3
2072.3 5957.6 4858.8 9130.1 2266.2 6515.1
1.29 3.70

MillHill ...................
Brewst~r......

..···.. .·.··.

i»·

Nausett Harbor............

Mill Hill...................
Indian Brook . . . . · . · · · . . . · . .
NaurettHarhor······.·.·..·

5313.5 9984.4 7706.4
~..
_..,,.,...,._. ,,. ,.

3.02

5.67
4.38
~~
..
16,-,,...

Nausett Light.s, aonth of:)

(station

7047.0
.
"lil,._"lliwn

MillHill ...................

Nausett Centre Light.......

4\'t>
Griftin'a laland........ ......
BilliDgBg&te Point light.....

5&~ ~= ~ =lliii::::::::::::::::: ~~ ~ ;~\ ·~. {~~- -·
23 01 22 141 59 11 328 21 1s M Ol, ~.
Scargo Hill................. Prolincetown ······ ···· ····

41 56 12.30
41 51 36.70

70 03 44.54 10

202 56 53 3'.!l 54 20 148 30 04 213 57 m

23857 .8 16224.0

26090.2 17742.l 12057 .~
. 17754.2

14.82 10.08 6.ss
10

os 00.20

* rr .a. ~·ev.-~ ~z N- ~l ·..-~.r~ \pa-a..,.·

Mill mn ······· ····.. ..···. Savgollill.· ~---······· ····

I

\ 16235~1

11026.2

Name of station.

I

Latitude.
0
I

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0

To stationNa.wiett Lights, (station S. of)
Eastham ······ ··----· ······

{Back azimuth.
0

Di.stllDce.
Metres. 2938-4 2671.1
18640~3

D.istance. Distance. Yanls. 3213.4 29-21.0 5066.4 20384.5
852Ll 6898.8 4788.2 5544.5 25230.5 5791.4 2968.6 27158.5 4378.7 7974.S 6005.7 4396.2 3900.0 27780.3 3U2.7 21002:8

,,

, ,,

, ,,

, ,,

Eastham.
spire.)

(Congregational

41 50 2(L14 41 47 02.75 41 44 03.46 41 44 32.73 41 54 26.78 41 54 30.00 41 55 49.60 415612.14 415617.59 41 56 07.58 415912.84

69 58 32.81 69 58 08.56 69 55 12.58 69 58 18.04 70 00 43.27 69 58 45.56 69 58 29.46 70 02 25.95 70 01 <p.45 70 00 54.96 70 00 23.52

243 22 09 44 05 59 2 42 09 155 28 IO 126 03 09 164 35 08 281 52 29 2 16 53 ·35 52 22 127 56 51

632325 224 05 06 182 42 03 335 24 23 306 06 07 344 31 20 101 54 33 182 16 48 215 45 51 307 54 50
267 54 08 220 42 19

Miles. l.83 l.66
2.88 11.58 4.84 3.92 2.72 3.15 14.34 3.29

Orleans, (Orthodu spire)-·-

Pleasant Bay ··············. Griffin's Island ...···.·····..

4632.9

ausett

Beach------------Bay-----·------··

1lfill Hill ······· -------· ···· N ausett Harbor ·············
Nansett :Beach .············· Chatlulln ·············.····. Seargo Hill ................. Griffin's Island ·············. Blackfilili Creek ········· - ·· Seargo Hill .··..·..··.·..... Blackfigh Creek ············ Griffin's Island ·············. Lombard Head···---------Blackfish Creek · _- -~ ···· - ·. Blackfiah Creek ············ Seargo Hill .... --· ······.... Blackfish Creek ············ Scargo Hill .············· _·. Lombard Head ············· Hamblin's Monnd ···········

7792.0 6308.5 4378.5 5070.l 23071.7 S-295.9 2714.6 24834.7 4004.0 7292.4 5491.8 4020.0 3566.3 25403.3 3120.7 25515.3

Pleasant
h

Creek-----·------

South weilfleet, (Congregatioois1 spire.)
Lombard Head ···········.

875526 40 50 07
50 21 55 95 32 32 277 15 10 323 56 27 343 25 18 29 28 18 355 03 26 31 16 57 337 15 41 265007

L69 15.43
2.49 4.53 3.41 2.50
2~22

230 20 26 275 29, 01 97 17 48 143 57 36 163 25 48 209 22 18 175 03 34 211 10 34 157 16 "57 206 48 45

Hamblia'a Mound ···· -----·

North Wellfleet, (MetbodiBt
belfry.)

15.79

North Wellfteet, (Congregational belfry.)
CaDlbria ··· :. ··············

f1'·~
.

l~''l
6831(4·

L94 15.86
~---

.0046.9

·-

~,.,_

3.88

United Stateg Coast Stirvey.-Geograpkieal
Name of station. Latitude.
0 ,
u

Po..~tiOfls.

Section

L~ Cape

Cod.

Sketch A.

Lc,\ngitude.
0 , ,,

Azimuth. 287 58 18 351 45 46
10 19 21 102 52 45

To stationCambria .······.····.····.. Griffin's Island .·· - ·· _. - ·· - ·.

I
·

Back azimi;th. f Distance.
Metres.

"f

' D;~ce~ Di~c~~" -~
tb

I

.

1-----0--,-,,-,---------~!--o--,-,-,-i

Pam.et-----·--··---------Bigblana······ -----·-----·
Highland Light ··.····· --·-

42 00 12.85 42 01 39.29 42 02 21.17 41 59 52. 02 42 01 57.08 42 04 07.49 42 04 48.38 42 03 42.30 42 03 00.05 42 03 02.10

70 04 31.19 70 02 25.99 ,

108 01 04 171 46 17
190 09 29 282 47 01

599-2.2 7498.6

Yards. 6552.9 8200.3

Miles. 3.72 4.66

70 03 18.35 I 325 17 33 I 30206 70 02 56.95 ! 106 31 27 I 91120 70 09 47

. I

Gri~n's Island ·······.···..· PronncetmTn --.-·-;-- ····..

10248.51 11207.5 1210-2.9 13235.4 11395.l

6.37
7.52

Cambria ..···..······ ·----- 1 145 19 50 Griffin's Island .·· --- ···.· --· 1 183 01 49

7066.31

7727.5 12461.3
2473:9 7509.4

4.39
1.<18

Truro, (Congregationahpire ).
Long Point Light ·········.

Pamet. --- - - .·····. ---- ---- l 286 30 24 Griffin's Island ··.·....·. --·· t 189 10 49 Griffin's Island .··..····· -.· _ 141 '53 41 . Pamet ·----· ---·--· ________ ; 113 52 23 Griffin's Island .···. - · _·· ---· Pamet ---- ·.. ------ .. -----Stout·-----------·--------ProTincetown __ ·.· - ·. -- ·· -

2262.2 6866.9 13523.9 7004.6
15412.9 8122.8

1.40 4.27
8.40 4.94

.« 14121 49 38
293 48 51

14789.3 8698.9
16855.1 8882.9

Stont ············. ·-···---

10 01 11.38

I

I

341 59 51 333 oo 43

162 02 09
153 02 31
100 36 17 154 12 43

9.58 5.05 4.27 2.17

~

Race Point ····· - ·········· Race Point Light .····· ---Provinceto"ll'D, (new Univerll&list spire.)

I 70 12 05.271' 280 33 ()() 384 11 59
10 14 15.59 10 10 sa.53 10 io 56.11

l'rovineet.own,
spire.)

(Orthodox

! I I
I

I 235 45 23 313 39 16
I

-j

6871.4
3494.1

7514.4

3821.0
396'2.8 21968.8

Race Point. ······ ------ ____ ! 55 46 51 Griffin's Island.......... ____ I 133 46 19

I

321 31 oo 176 20 22 321 41 56 153 31 18

Griffin's Island ·········. ProTincetown __ ··.······· - _

----114~ 35 51 356 20 22 I
i

3623.7 20089.1
16061.3 197.3

2.25
12.48 9.98

17564.2 215.8 17579.7 166.1 17648.7

0.12
9.99, Ot09' ·

I

Griffin's Island ···· - - ..···.·. i 141 52 45 1 ProTincetown ------ __ ······ \ 333 31 16
lhc)~~-------

l\

16075.5 151.9
16138.6 .86.3

Provineetcnm.,
~-)

70 10 56.39 \-

32l 57 1'7

l.~ 42..~

\\Griffin's Island ···· ---------.-

-- ------

142 02. 06
313}\2 32.

94.4

Name of station.

Latitude.

/

Longitude.

f

.Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To station-

IBack azimuth. / DLQfance. { Distance. ,. Distance.
1
0 , "

~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~-·:~~~~~1-~~~~~~~~~i-~~~~-:-~~-1~~~-1-~~~

o · ,,
...,.Provincetown, (old _UniverC-' salist belfry.) Provincet.own ·············

42 02 49.01 I 70 11 05.58 42 03 06.41 70 10 59.11

I

o ...

Metres .

195 28 50 320 17 31 17 54 16

Provincetown ····..··.··..· Griffin's Island ··············

15 28 55 140 22 26

557.3 15o"99.5 42e2<L9 36094.7

Yards. 009.5 17387.2 46827.6 39472.1

Kiles.
0.35 9.88

f'. 31 32 IManomet Bill . . . ·.·...·.·...
162 J5 33 310 !l3 28

Shootfiying Hill ..·· - ···· - ··· , 197 47 54 247 15 24

26.fil
22.43

CAPE COD BAY.

Peaked Cliff.········ ·----·, 41 48 29.27, 70 32 03.77

Illanomet nm. ____________ .
Shootfiying Hill .. -- ·....·...

I I 41 44 16.991 70 24 19.82 --oj&(fol.~Wi.a· ........ · '-....2t!. ,~,--- .......-····-~iptj-· l 315 15 42 ! Shootfiying Hill ..· - ···.····. 135 17 36 Scort.on Bill ····.·· ·-·· .... i 414315.11 I 70 23 20.06 111 45 20 I Mount Schanm ········ - ····· 291 40 I 22.00 I 70 30 28.67 159 06 0.5 I Peaked Cliff·.·············· 339 05 01 Mount Scbamn ······ --···-I 41 103 27 57 52 ! Scorton I 106 70 27 15.24 286 48 37 i Scorton 'Spring Hill 41 44 fi6.72
Soorton Neck ········ -----·

I

342 13 31 130 31 11

13842.7 21113.7 13242.5 25737.7 5641.4 10660.4 6152.8 8761.1 4234.3 4541.2 7679.9 1148.6 12812.8 3914.6 11560.9 30895.S

15137.9 23089.3 14481.6 28145.9 6169.2 11657.8 6728.5 9580.8 4630.5 4966.1

8.60 13.12
8.23 15.99 3.51

.

I

34

6.62
3.82 5.44

45

2e"'3 23

Neck ··.············

Academy ··· - ··· !

Sandwich,(Orthodox spire) ..

I I

100 17 06
41 45 26.221 70 29 39.14
286 06 51 84 58 47

i Mount Schaum ··············
I .

Nook .······.······.

50 34

280 14 58 106 10 29
264 58 14

2.63 2.82
4.77 0.71 7.96 2.43 7.18 19 20

I Scorton Neck .·········.···· I Mount Schaum ··············

8398.5 1256.1
14011.7 4280.9
12642~6

Holmes' Bill ·.······ -----·
Monk's Hill ···············

41 55 24.47
41 57 37 .01

70 32 17 .73 70 43 02.21

358 33 35 95 30 15
288 41 56 334 59 54

I Peaked Cliff················
1

Manomet Hill. .· - ·....··. - .

178 33 44 275 28 22
108 47 14 155 06 11

1l'iRe Hill ····················

Manomet Bill . · · · · · · .···..·

3ii'a6.7

United States Coast Surve11.-Geograpliical Positions.
Name of station. \ Latitude.
0
I ,,

Section I.-Capc Cod Bay.

Sketch A.

I
Plymouth ···· ·------·----· Kin,,"1rton.................. Eel River Steeple -- ---- ---· Pier Head, Plymouth harbor . North Plymouth Rope Works

_Lo_ngi_·_ru_d_e_.
0
I II

Gurnet _ -----· -----· ·····. ! 42 00 09.34 41 57 2"2.70 41 58 51.22 41 56 13.10 41 58 44.43 41 58 45.42

70 35

-ii __A_z_im_u_th_._,__ _ _T_o_st_a_ti_o_n_ _ _ _ _B_ack __ amn_·_u_th_.·J-Di-·st_an_c_e.j Distance. I Distance. IManomet Hill .····. ·----·.. 174 04 35 Metres. Yards. Miles. 44.&2 354 04 09 8459.0 9250.5 5.26
1 1

0

,

,,

0

65 01 16 70 39 46.72 70 41 33.44 70 37 27.89 70 38 52.17 70 40 58.95 70 43 31.58 70 35 42.74 70 40 37 .01 250 16 15 53 22 31
~10 2.5 T-0947

95 37 26 296 53 43 303 57 41 318 00 37

' I
1

'

"

Monk's Hill .····. ··----....

244 56 23 275 35 16 116 56 50 124 02 00 138 01 48

llll0.5 4523.l 7'229.1 10737.4 3673.5 3438.0 8123.0

12150.0 49-16.3 7905.5 I 11472.1 4017 .2 3759.7 8883.0 8505.2 5517.1 8397.9 38fii .2 15022.3 11806.8 12210.5 10936.2

6.90 2.Sl 4.49 6.67 2.28 2.14 5.05 4.83 3.14 4.77 2.20 8.54 6.71 6.94 6.21 4.25 4.22 5.28
I")

Monk's Hill ..···. ·-----.... Manomet Hill .····· ·----- --

.,,,.

Monomet Hill ...··...···.·. Plymouth. ____ ············.

llfonomet Hill ·····.·· - --- ·. Monk's Hill .··.·. ·----· ....
,.~,,,,,.,

I

1

Gurnet ·---·· ·············.

58 44 29 70 19 47 233 21 09 122 16 03 84 15 00 244 54 37 151 51 17 100 16 04 209 ZJ ~ 338 4-5 52

7777.5 5045.1 7679.4 3536.3 13737.0 10796.6 11165.8 10000.5 6831.8 679'2.9

'='
0

I Monk's Hill ...... ·----- ... .
j Man<>met Hill ..·· ·-----·--1 Gumet ..··.. ---- ·----· ....

I Gumet -- -..·.· --·· .·.. ---·

'

Kingston Spire._ .· _·-·- ···. 1 41 59 34.02 Gurnet South Light._. ____ . 42 00 10.26

64 59 30 331 41 00 280 12 49

I Monk's Hill ····.· ··-------Holmes' Hill ...... ·----··---

Standish ··.·

·-·--·-----·-·11 42 00 48.71
42 02 47.1)9
42. <t2 \M..59

29 29 11
70 38 49.55 \' 71J u 12.25

Gumet ----·· --···· ---- --·· Monk's Hill---------------"\\nite .····. ------- --·- ..·.

I

7471.l
7-i28.5

PowderPoint..............
WestD="bUY!E;p1re........

I~ ~ ~
32.\ 5'! 22
~1A~

Standish·--------~-----·---\ 214 04 50

Manomet Bill. - -· · · ......... 1 \ HA 56 'Z'I
Gumet. ···· ······ ···· ······

l::~_: I
~-'1\

2.H
15997.7
9100.\ \

115 \7 5\

United Stutes O'oast S11rrey.-Geogruphical Pos-itions.
Name of !ftation.

Section I.-3faS8tZChusetis .Bay.

Sketch .A.
Distance.

Latitude.
0
I II

Longitude.
0 , ,,

.!_ _

A_zi_·m_ut_h·__ ,_ _ _ _ T_o_s_ta_n_on_____
0 , ,,

,_B_a_ck~a-zi_m_u_th_. {Distance. {Distance.
0 , ,,

East Duxbury Belfry.·-··-MA.SSACllliSb'TI'S DAY.

. . 02

06~051

70 40 02.84

330 25 01

301 12 55

Manomet Hill · · . · · ··.··.·· Gurnet ·············· ·-----

150 28 20
121 15 49

Metres. 13811.8 6942.0

Yards · 15104.2 7591.6

Miles. 8.58 4.31

Webster's Fla.g;ta1f_ - - - - · - - Dan. W ebst{lr's West Chimney.

42 04 37.18

i
I
I

70 39 52.57
32S 55 03

Manomet Hill. - . - .....·.. -. Gnrnet ·.···. _······.···· _.

158 30 47 145 26 08 148 56 08
348 31 08

179-26.1 10036.9 4291.3 433L8
999-2.7 18329.5

19603.4 10976.1 '4692.8 4740.4 10927.7 20044.6 16l18.2 24962.3 18067.4

11.14 6.24

42 04 46.23 : 70 40 25.89 42 05 15.28 : 70 38 07 .48

Braut·· - ·····. -·· - · - · · --- ·

'l

168 31 34
340 49 06

Powder Point .·. - - -··- ····. -

2.67
2.69

White--------····--------·
Gnrnet. -- - - ······ -- .. - - - ·· Manomet Hill . . · · · ··..·· - . Gnmet ·... ·--- --·· ··.···· - . Manomet Hill ·······. ··-- .. Gumet...... ..··.. ..·· ....
· Manomet Hill...... ···· ···.

I
42 fJ'i 03.92 : 70 41 03.43

346 52 50
33() 10 16 338 50 12

160 50 42 166 54 51
150 13 49 158 53 11 139 31 44
151 04 35

6.21
11.39 9.16 14.13 10.27 14.90 14.34 12.90 8.63 1.98

White--··-----···---·--··
Carolina Hill..............
Spragne's

14739.1 22735.0
16521.5 23974.7 23071.2 20768.4

co .

42 00 56.48 · 70 43 31.67
42 00 15.81 42 08 07.44 42 10 47.81 42 08 06.47 70 57 39.02 70 42 52.55 10 42 40.81

319 26 31 330 58 57 237 31 31 283 33 41
347 01 28 308 00 39

Hill.............

Carolina Hill. ······.···· _· . Monk's Hill.. · · · ·.····.··· _

57 40 59 103 43 27 167 02 59 128 01 52 183 07 01 162 04 25

::~:1
2-2711.71

Lewis··-··· --· -·· ·-. ·--·.
ThirdCllif'.................
Hatch---- ··········· -----

Standish . · . · . ··.....·.·. - . . '\lite.....................
Lewis ····· ··---- -·. ·-. ···· White··-··· ..·· ....··. ·...

13889.0 3181.1 4954.9 7259.7

15188.6 I 3478.8 i 5418.5
7939.0.

3

rn os

3.08

342 03 19

4.51
1.37

70 41 50.21

330 53 30 166 52 04

White ······ --·····-······· Third

Cliff'--··............. . 346 51 30

150 54 01

2208.5 5111.1

2415.2 5589.4

3.18

United States Coast Survey.
Name of station.

-~~?eographical

Positiom. · Section ].-Massachusetts Bay.
To stationLewis ······.···.··········· Hatch ····················. Hatch ·······..··..········ Briggs ····..··.···········.

Bketch A.
-

I

Latitude.

Longitude.
0
I

I

Azimuth.
0

. ........................................
North Marshfield, (Unitarian spire.) N antask.et ·················
t Waltham ·······

" 42 10 00.50
42 08 28.15 42 18 13.69 42 23 16.85 42 25 02.81 42 11 32.67 42 24 0-J.72 42 20 01.45 42 20 59.31
. . . . 31.39

0

I

70 44 36.20 70 44 08.34 70 53 59.10 71 14 54.38 70 53 57.13 70 51 06.04 71 01 30.96 710214.85 70 57 09.90

"

,

I

Back azimuth. / Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
I

II

0

3'J5 41 29 312 41 <i8

145 42 39 132 43 39 101 55 05 347 20 54 239 14 24 22 57 30

"

l
I
;!

Metres. 4222.4 5186.3

Yards. 4617 .5 5671.6

M'aks:
2.62 3.22
2.01 1.81 12.46 23.02

281 53 32 167 21 13 59 22 50 20-2 50 24 329 30 17 287 54 55 37 09 08 0 12 17 171 06 20 16'2 14 23 18 10 39 259 49 35 23 28 37 230 43 03 40 02 10 133 28 56 232 22 35 277 0113
\

3241.5 29-20.2
~

3544.8 3193.4 21931.4 40520.7 24848.9 33040.1 31333.o 13....Q()2.8 27666.9 14208.9 24171.8 11526.6 16164.4 16075.0 2l900.9 8997.0 n689.1 8230.8 11154.1 \
1Q7~.7

Bloo Ili!L ··.·..··..·····.·· Thompson's Hill ············

--1

Blue Hill. .····..··········. 1 149 35 56 Nantasket ·····..····.·.···· 108 09 01 Blue Hill ..········.·..···.. Nantasket .···..··.········. Nahant ··············.····· Nantasket .····...···..····.

I
I I

! 20054.9 t 37053.6
22722.7 30"213.l 28652.0 12621.8 25299.6 22103.6 10540.3 14781.3 14699.6
20027.0 8227.2

N ~ahant .····.····.·.··..· ·
t Hingham .········
Powderhorn ··············.

217 00 40 180 12 15 351 04 25 342 12 26

l I
i

I

I

14.12 18.77 17 ..80 7.84 15,I 8.07 13.7 6. 55

' 12993.1 ; I
i
i

Blue Hill ...····.············ 198 07 16 Nahant .··.···.······.··.·. , 79 54 42 Blue Hill. ............ , ····. 203 25 44 Nahant .................... i 50 48 39 Blue Hill .....····......·... Powderhorn ················ \ Powderhom ······ , ········· Dorchester Heights .········

! :

a

Dorebester Heights .········
Deer Island ···············

I
i

9~1 8 9.1a

219 55 52 313 26 00 52 26 44 97 04 51

Corey's Hill ...............

~

71 07 .....

'White'· mu...............

.\2 12 ll0.45

70 GS 18.21

283 34 03 la'i oo 16

\ Prospect Hingham ·········· 103 38 53 Dorohestet Reignte. ········· , ~ 47 37

I 10688.9 7526.5 I 10199.7
I

- G.

12. ~ 5.1 1 4.

\I l.\aOO.O ,

6.

a.

United States Coast Surrey.-Oeographical Positions.
Name of stati-On.

Secdon I.-Massac!11tsetts Bay.

Slcett:lt .A.

~-~---~_d_&_~'-~-~-~-d_e_._l __ A_·_~_h_.~l___T_o_~_d_~_n_ _ _ _l_&_tl_~_~_·_h~._rn_~_an_c_e_./~~~ITh~·
0 , ,, 0 , ,,

0

.,

,,

EastWeymouthChurch..... North Weym~ Church... Weymouth, {tlag on Great Hill.) Weymouth, (pole on King Oak Hill.)

42 12 48.39 42 13 44.45

70 56 09.97 70 66 91.85 70 56 12 40 70 66 04.24

292 38 11 90 51 49
201 ~ 03 58 02 25
36 23 22

I .

Prospect Hinghatn . __ ···· ___

White's Hill................

112 .to 55 270 49 43 91 30 38
238 00 47

t>

'

''

Metres.

6063 .5 4317 .7 I

I

Yards.

6630 .9 4721.7

M"iks.

3. 77 2.68

Nailta.sket.................. IWhite's Hill................ White's Hill................ Nantasket.................. Nantasket...... ...··..·...· Dorchester Heights ........·
Prospect Hingham ··· ------·

8928.!J \ 3144.8

I
l I
I
I
J

!!764.4 3439.l
6318.7 7418.4 9851.3 15954.3 j 10563.6 i 5909.5 I

5.55 1.95
3.02 4.22

42 14 57 .37 42 13 36.91 42 14 12.64
42 15 08.37 42 16 27.03 42 15 39 .98 42 15 02.24 42 14 58.65 42 14 43.75

206 44 47

216 22 00 26 46 17 18 34 <f2 324 22 25

I
1

4863.6 1 6783.61 9008.4 14589.2 96.5!!.7 5403.9

198 33 08
144 26 36 140 22 19 24 02 19

!

5.60 9.07 6.00 3.36 6.0'2 7.70 3.13 7.43

ScitnateHilL ···.· -·-- ···.

Nantasket ..·......··.··...· 1 320 1918 204 011.5
ProspectHinghllm -----·-··· Nantasket...... ............ Nantasket. .··...····· ··---· Prospect Hingham .····.....
~ 35 19 2!J7 25 12

Hayden's Hotel.. .... -----Great

70 45 58.96 70 56 45.78 70 63 25.37 70 69 51.89 10 59 28.82 70 58 10.86

46 38 46

117 28 55
229 13 28 319 20 53

9688.7 ! 10595.3 12397.7 I 13557.8

Quincy..............

49 15 20 139 24 41

I

5040_1 I 55J2A 11964.5113084.o
4805.2 827"2.0 9795.0 13682.7

Crow Point .··· - ..···· - · · . ·
Qniney,(Ktooe

170 44 54 337 16 02 160 28 59
296 09 03

. Nantasket ·················· l 3."":J() 44 3'2 Prospect Hingham.......... 157 17 36

5954.8, 9046.0 ' 1Q711.5 14963.0 6.09

church}-··---

Dorchester Heights _· · · · · · · · Prospect Hingham .······..·
. Great Quincy ···········.··· White's Hill ·..·...······.··
I

340 27 23 11814 56
5353~

8.60
2.87 2.66 5.39 2.20-

Quincy, (black top church)..

I

233 51 6.'l
337 43 59

46'J5.6
4273.6

Quincy, (ehureh at Bent's
Point.)

l
I

157 44 46
11

I

.

221 39 47 2 45 45

IWhite's Bill.·.··.··.····.··

Nantasket .·················

41 42 37 182 45 40

8673.8

3499.5'

~

,...

United States Coast Survey.-Geogmphical Positi()'fl,$.
N3Ille of station.
lfingham, (church Plain.)
\

Section L-Massachusl!tts Bay.
To stationBack azimuth.
0
I

Sketch A..
Distance. ) Distance. , Distance.
Metres.

Latitude.
Q
I

Longitude. ·

i

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

on Great
North

JI

42 12.36-34
42 16 22.45 42 14 32.32 42 14 26.70

70 52 43.37 70 51 28.9:2 70 53 08.34 70 52 53.85

0

·

,,

I

I

ft

Yards.
3:252.2

Miles,

311 19 54

Prospect H"mgham ··········

93 16 34 91 08 33 134 56 3$ 169 24 35

White's Hill ............... .
Great Quincy............... Nantasket...... ..·... ·.·... Crow Point-................ Great Quincy............... Crow Point ....·......·..... Great Quincy .....··...····. Crow Point ...........·..... Sagamore Head .···...···...

131 21 00 273 12 49 271 05 00 314 54 57 349 24 2-t 305 21 30 342 17 04
304 54 42

2973.9 7691.9 7262.5 4859.4 2123.6 6111.6 2373.4 6483.0 2469.l 2956.0 6578.2 6783.4 5283.8 S-278.4 8954.3 5560.8 9011.9 6-143.'1 4629.1 282:2.2 5316.8 \ 689l..9.

1.85

8411.6 7942.l 5314.1 2322.3 66S3.5 2595.5 7089.6 2700.1 323:2.6 7193.7 7418.1 57i'8.2 9053.0

4.78
4.51 3.0-2 1.32 3.80 1.47 4.03 1.53 1.84
4.09

811g8more Head, (signal).... Hingham, (new

church.)
Hingham, (old church)- .···.

125 23 56
162 17 25

124 57 18
Hingham, (cupola of Old ' 42 14 49.75 I 70 52 01.50 Colony House.)

I
j

128 52 40 194 3i 29 60 59 34
181 36 00

303 51 44 14 37 51 2-10 56 45 1 36 00 183 12 52 3:'28 59 58

Hingham, signal.) Hingham, signal.)

(Baker's

Hill

42 14 33.9-2 42 14 23.66

70 54 07.37
10 50. 53.11

IWhite's Hill ......·....·..· Nantasket .··.·····..···...
Prospect lfmgbam ..····.... Nantasket ..·..·....···..·.
Nantasket ..···. ······ .·... White's Hill.... ·· . . . . · · . · . .

4.22
3.28 5.14

(Turkey

Hill

i

I

3 13 01 149 0-2 03

Eaton's Ifill (Mount Wallasron) Flag.
CatHillSignal.............

42 15 42-07
42 1317.17

70 59 32.36 70 44 59.14

i

238 28 16
342 11 37 69 04 13

58 32 01 162 12 Z1
2-19 00 08 285 2'2 35 120 39 04 67 41 28

105 25 37

Prospect Hingham.......... Scituate Hill....... · · . . . . . .
Cat Hill Signal......... . · . . Hayden's Hotel....... · · . · . .

CobassetChureh--·········\ 4214 33.6.'J \ 70 47 52.87 \ aoo 37 07

247 40 11

~s ~e 1'\illt-house--\

42 1.6 09.l.6 \ 70 4;; 1a.56
.

356 26 17 i>& M <\~

Cat Hill Signal..... ·· · . · · . . 176 26 27 \ &itua.te lli\\ .............. ., 238 31 51. .

:: l
98.55.l 3086.3

979"2.2 6081.l

5.56 3.46 5.60 4.00
2.88 1.75

5814.3

,75:,>,fj.8

tJ4ited Stafes Ooast 9urcey.-UeograpAical Positions. Section I.-Ha,ssacltusetts Ba!/·
Name of station.
Scituate Light ............. Scituate, (Unitarian spire) .· Parker's Hill Signal ········ )?orbes .·.··············.. Latitude.
0 ' " 42 12 15.26
42 11 58.68' 42 13 43.60 42 15 25.85

Slcctc!t A.

Longitude.
0
t ,,

I
i !

.Azimuth.
0

To

stati~n-

,

_I

Baek azimuth. {Distance. /Distance. {Distance.
o ' " 300 25 54 261 09 53
303 47 23 264 29 Zl 14 25 15 237 35 44 357 16 08 62 47 13 315 01 45 38 11 30 16 43 00 86 28 27 108 41 21 21 11 04 ll60 29 34 351 15 26 348 60 15 44 46 46 275 18 59 157 02 27 273 23 52 300 22 35
I

70 42 37.(3

120 27 30 81 11 30 123 50 24 84 33 33 194 24 5-5 57·38 51 171 16 47 242 42 18 135 03 03 218 09 45 196 42 17 266 2'2 51

"

Cat Jlill SignaL.. .. ....··· Scituate Unitarian Church ... Scituate Hill ..·...·.···..... Prospect Hingham .········. Hayden's Hotel. ............ Prospect Hingham ...····... Dorchester Heights .···..··. Nantasket ..··.····.····.·.. Forbes ..·...····.·····...·. Great Quincy .·.··.···.···.. Great Quincy ······.···..·.. Scituate Hill ..·.....·.····.

Metns. 3770.l 3333.8
.7426.0 8412.0 2700.9 7542.8
860-2.l 11308.2

Yards. 4122.9 3645.8
8120.9 9199.1 2953.6 &248.8 9407.0 12366.3 4115.1 6330.0 5550.0 12544.7 2664.6 4646.1 4674.9 2861.7 8846.6 4355.5 9409.2 3971.0 11509.5 ,S(76.2

I

Miles. 2.34 2.07
4.62 5.23 1.68 4.69

70 45 01.031 70 46 28.29 71 01 17.89 70

I

5.35
7.03 2.34 3.60 3.15 7.13 1.51 2.64 2.66 1.63 5.03 2.48 5.35 2.26 6.54 4.79

rn

Paine's Hill Obsenutory, Braintree.

I 42 13 59.55

1

w

~l.88

3763.0 5788.4 5075.1 11471.3 2436.6 4248.6 4274.9 2616.8 8089.6 3982.8 86Q4.l

Thayer's Hill, (chimney of I 42 13 49.47 yellow house,) Braintree.

I

70 57 49.44 70 55 06.10 70 63 41.74 70 56 01.55 70 50 31.90

. .co .
g

tj

Grape Island, (ilag) ······ ·· 1 42 16 05.27

gas 40 13 201 10 19
80 31 38 171 15 38 168 51 00 224 45 24 95 23 IO 337 01 45 93 29 00 120 25 51

I

Crow Point ...·.··.·.·····.. Nantasket ................. Great Quincy ·· ~ ............ Nantasket ··.·········.···.

Bunkin Island, (flag) ·······

42 16 49.86

:Pig :Bock. :Beacon ·········· -42 16 42.05
Atlantic Rouse, (chimney) .·
42 16 01.01 42 16 06.54

Cohall&et,(BiackRocksignal)

10 49 cn.28

i""'"'"'Hill................
Great Quincy··············· Nantasket·················

Deer Island .··············. Nantasket ················.

I Gr_eat Qull_icy .··············

3631.2
10524.7 7750.9

:,

,....

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Posi.ti()'ll.S.
___ N_am_e_o_r_st_ati_·o_n_._ _ Hangman's Ledge, (sunken be11oon.)
__ 1

8ection L-Massachttsetts Bay.

Sketch A.

L_a_t_itu_d_e_._,_Longi __._tu_d_e_.___ A_zi_m_u __ th_._ _ _ _ _ T_o_st_a_ti_· o_n_ _ _ _ _n_a_c_k_=_·_u_th_. Distance.\ Distance. Distance.
1
' ''

1

Q

0

I

fl

A2 17 42.76
42 18 11.91 42 18 40. 75 42 16 24.51 42 15 10.33 42 16 57.22 42 17 09.61 42 17 24.85

70 57 18.11

b I II 181 46 32 122 13 38

a , ,,
1 46 37 302 10 18 0 37 04 89 40 18 316 37 ':t'l 59 38 16 17 29 35 332 59 58

Deer Island................ Dorchester Heights. · · · · · · · · Governor's Island........... Nantasket. ···· ·····. ·····. Corey's Hill................ Dorchester Heights.. . · · · · . . Dorchester Heights .·.·····.

Metres. 6066.9 8029.9

Yards. 6634.6 8781.3
5885.5 Wv52.5 5134.8

Miles.
3.78

4.99
3.34 5.43

Squantum. ······ ···· .· ·.·.
Roxbury, (Sargent's observa~~

71 00 20.51
71 05 20.37

180 37 0-2 269 36 0-2 136 39 01 936N 197 28 33 153 01 01

5381.9 8735.1 4695.4 497.23.2 7017.3 4716.8 10836.3 9.l95.l 7325.6 7132.3' 5315.4 3569.2 5367.0 30-2"2.0 3800.l

2.92
3.06
4.36 2.93

5383.9
7673.9 5158.1 11850.3 10383.6 8011.l
7799.7

:Milt-0n

Mills, church.)

(tall-spired

71 03 46.93

Sargent's Observatory .····..
Corey's Hill ..····.········· Dorchester Heights ·······.. Corey's HIIL ·.··.·········. Dorchester Heights .·····.·. Dorchester Heights ······· ·: Squantum . .. · · . . · · · · · · · · · . . Dorchester Heights. · · · · · · · .

Milt-0n, (old church) ········
W elliDgt~m Hill, ( ftag) .····.
Neponset Vtllage,(church) ·: Dorchester, (Dr. Codman's church.) Dorchester, (ftag on Commercial Point wharf.) Dorchester, on bill.)
~\oo'I>..)

71 04 29.34
71 05 23-04
71 02 31.83 71 OS 56.95

156 05 42
198 55 03

336 03 33
18

56 33

6.73 5.90
4.55 4.43

154 25 47 217 09 12
ISA 11 18 237 24 36 205 48 42 140 47 33 180 48 10 261 03 00 217 51 19 268 24 20
2.liS ~ 02. ~ .\~ 0\.

334 24 14 37 11 l8

4 11 29 57 26 04
25 49 51 320 46 37 0 48 12 81 04 19

5812.8 3903.2 5869.2 3304.8 4155.7 2958.3 4885.1 5865.6
~17.5 ~~-4.

3.30 2.22

Sargent's Observatory.......
Dorchester Heights .····.··. Squantum .···...··...·····. Dorchester Height& ········.·

3.33
1.88 2.36 1.68 2.78 3.33
~-Gt\
\,~

42 17 58.. 29 \71 ()>217.18 (summer-house \42 18 07 .14 71 04 14.61
~

':t'/05.21
4467.1 5363.7 \

Squantum ...·...·.··.····..
Dore'1ester Re\gnts .·········
~ll;ry.eU~" ()b~tm:y .··· · ···

37 52 39 88 26 58
28 ~ .\9 Z!S .\\. .\';!.

I

1)1n:euel\ter, ·<.euureD. 'iiifu.

1.S

~

.61

11.

o~ ~.is

~-()'

2.m7 .% .

Unit¥ 8/aks Coan Suroey.-Geograpnical .Positwns.

Secfion L-.Mo,ssachwetts Bay.

Sketch A.

___ N_am_e_of_st_atio_·_n_.--·+·l_"_.La_n_·tud_. _e_._ _Lo_ngi_·rn_d_e_._/__ .Azim_·_u_th_._ _ _ _ _ T_o __ st_a_ti_on__ _ _ _ __ B_ac_k_·_azun_·_n_th_. _D_i_·st_an_ce_. IDistance. {Distance. 1 1 1 0 / " o ' '' o ' " i o ' " Metres. Yards. , Miles. Roxbnry,(tall-spired church, 42 18 34.44 388-1-3 1 4247 .8 2.41 71 06 38.36 I 158 15 58 \ Corey's HHL... ·... ···· ··.. 338 15 16 Jamaica Plains.) 263 46 26 i Sargent's Obserratory..... ·· . 83 47. 18 1796.1 1964.2 1.12

I

I
I

I

Roxbury, ( cbimney oflaborat-Ory.) Roxbury, (Doctor Putnam's church.) Roxbury, (new Unitarian church.) Brookline, (Doctor Peirce's church.) Governor's Island...........

42 19 22.52 42 19 45.82 42 19 40.12 42 19 36.18

71 05 31.94

212 30 33 l Powderhorn..... .··· ·..· .·.. 32 33 15 J55 04 39 Dorchester Heights.·····..·. L? 75 06 52

l
1

10-253.8 \ 11213.3 4669.0 5105.9 9304.0 3864.4
4638.9 3178.2

6.37 2.90 5.78 2.40 2.88 1.98 1.07 7.24 2.08 2.68 4.31 3.36 3.66 1.26 2.62 4.78 3.41 7.55 1.75 1.22

71 05 03.93 71 04 30.68 71 07 31.47 710017.96 70 59 01.99 70 55 26.49 70 55 21.22 70 53 24.06 70 52 38.26

2~1 33 47 Ill 20 51
109 57 24 258 0-2 14

Powderhom ···············. ~ 36 11 Corey's Hill................. 291 19 05

10174.6 42"26.0 5073.0 3475.6 1878.5 12737.5
3654.2 4712.6
I

Corey's Hill.... _··....·. - --Dorchester Heights.···.···..
Corey's Hill............. -.. .

289 55 15 78 03 46 352 33 34 45 07 17

172 33 40 2"25 03 14
53 12 14 272 52 01

Powderhom..·········.· - ··. Dorchester Heights ..··· - - ··. Deer Island....·······.····.

1717.8 11647.6 3341.5 4309.4
6939.5 5412.4

42 21 06.33
42 18 20.20 42 18 04.29 42 19 09.17 42 19 59.98 4218 35.13

2331055 9-2 54 08 91 41 07 341 14 41 336'18 42 81 45 09
323 46 43
297 59 33

.

~

Moon Read................
Pettick's Island, (flag on

271 37 42 161 15 34

Nantasket .········ - ····· - ·· Gornmor's Island...··.··· - ..
Deer Island.. _··.·..··· - ···· Nantasket ....···.·.·...···. Deer Island.....··.···.··.·. Governor's Island .·····.·· - ·. Deer Island...···.·····.··.. Dorchester Heights.········. Great Brewster..··· - ·· - ····. Nantasket; ··················

7588.8 5918.9
6447.5 2"211.3
4604.5 8414.6 \ 5996.51 13"287.4 I

north end.)
George's Island............. Great Brewster............ Po!ntAllerton,(tlag)........

156 19 51 261 44 11 143 47 57 118 0-2 51 109 31 14 90 15 46 158 10 16 70 21 28

5895.81
202-2.1
4211.3 7694.6 5483.4 12150.5

I

289 28 41 270 09 50 338 09 45

250 20 M

2819.9 1965.8

3083.8 / 2149.7

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
0
I

Section L-Ma.ssachusetts Bay. Sketch A.
I To station. Back azimuth. \ Distance.
0 ' "

Longitude.
0
I II

Azimuth.
Q
I II

Distance. 3325.4 7141.8 6472.0 2606.0 4575.0 4317.4

Distance. I.89 4.06

ti

,--Mi-e-tr-es-.-i--Y.-a_rd_s_.-i--.M-il-.e-s.
3040.9 6530.7 5918.2 2383.0 4183.5 3948.0 5930.8 53i2.3 18467.2 7153.8 4796.3 120-2.3 10067.9 2'2515.7 4457.7
8~29.4

Watertown, (flag on Gallop Island.) Nix's Mate................. RainsforJ. Island,(flag-staff).. Long Island, (flag on south end of.) Long Island Light ·....· - ··. Deer Island Beacon......... Boston Light............... Barrel Beacon,{near Bost.on light.) Outer Brewster.... · · . . . . . .

42 19 35.32 42 19 51.58 42 18 44.84 42 18 37.53 42 19 46.15 42 20 21.47 42 19 38.i7 42 19 20.29

70 56 00.37 70 56 19.84 70 56 46.32 70 58 16.08 70 57 03.03 70 56 57.32 70 53 05.06 70 54 48.08 70 52 19.98 70 52 28.35
7()
~

148 27 01 115 29 27 112 57 29 15115 58 172 35 14 2v'l-1 04 01 2i7 05 48 148 43 11 44 55 17 93 48 39 106 47 36 166 08 47 173 12 3S 55 14 3"2 133 16 16 113 27 23 28 4S 29

Deer IslaniL..... ......··.. Governor's Island............ Governor's Island............ Deer Island... . . . . . . . . · · · . . . Deer Island.. .. · . . . . · . . . . . . . Nantasket...... . . · . . . . . . · . . Nantasket...... ....·...··.. Governor's Island............

328 26 14 295 26 34

29-454 48 33, 15 24

3.68 1.48
2.60 2.45 3.69 3.34
11.48 4.44

352 34 59 104 05 53
97 OS 4l 328 41 48

6485.8 5875.0
20195.2 7823.2 5245.1 1314.8 11009.9 2462'2.5 4874.8 8999.4

Blue Hill ..... :·· ........... 2'24 48 55 Dorchester Heights.......... 1 2i3 45 10 Governor's Island............ Deer Island....... · . . . . · · . · . Nahant..................... Blue Hill .. _................ Deer I~land ........... _. . · . . Go·ernor' s Island...... . . . . . .
N amasket ...·.·....·.·. _. · · Great Brewster..............
2v~

45 20 346 08 37

2.98
0.75

353 12 02 235 05 30 313 14 41 293 23 41 208 47 22 239 55 01
f ,

6.26 13.99 2.77 5.11
2.93 1.05 2.09 3.81

I
I

42 20 27 .50

Stra.'l>berry Hill, (barn) .· " ·. J 42 17 20 .53

'-"'·""""' '"""')-

-----\

.. "'

"'-"'

29 .'n

~

59 55 44

4110.8

I

5151.6 1853.6 3GS0.3 6697 .0 \

2'2 51 19 74 23 12 2.61. 4.8 2;S
"3'M.
1.~

Cro'I> Point ...·.··.....··... \ 20:2 50 41 Great Quincy......·· : ....·.. \' 254 20 19 Great Bre'l>ster..... ···· ·.··
"Nl!.ll.tiw..et. ··· _____ ·.··--· ····

I\ :::: \
6124.0
2895.5
~-'l

81. 49 50
1.<\A 1.4
<,{)

3160.4
-~.3

.\'.)

lhn/ed Stak!S Oou..rt 8uT'lley.-6eo orapnic~ Poszrions. 0
Name of st:ation. { Latitude.
OIN

Section L-Massachusetts .Bo!f·

Sketch Ll.

l

Longitude.
0''1

{

.Azimuth.
01"

:----T_o_st_a_u_·o_u.-_ _ _ _ __ Ba_ck_llZllll_._nt_h_. Distance. (Distance./ Distance.
1
0 ' "

1

Spectacle Island, {pole)..... Thompson's Islimd, (fi:ig) ·· _. Thompson'slsland,{polenear :Farm School.)

42 19 36.94 42 19 12.62 42 19 05.56 42 21 09 .18 42 21 51.68 42 22 01.86 42 23 20.83 42 20 17.28 42 21 29.84 42 21 29 .60 42 20 11.03

70 58 55.59 70 59 55.05
71 00 04.94

145 38 54 29'J 41 31 115 13 04 171 29 56 120 06 28 12 08 41 11 16 48 86 49 04 154 01 50 23 29 20 59 08 2-2 3'23 51 48 348 59 55 239 08 01

Governor's Island ..··...·... Nantasket ................. . Dorchester Heights... . . . . . . . Governor's Island . · . · . . . . . . . Dorchester Heights.... · · · · . . Squantum . · . · . . . . · · · . · · · . . . Na.ntasket ...······.·... - ... Deer Island ·····.·.·.......

325 37 59 110 44 50
295 11 30 351 29 40
300 05 01 19'2 08 31

Metres. 3340.8 7258.3 3537.5 3547.4 3437.7 1693.6 5520.6 5454.0

I

Yards. , 3653.4 7937.5 3868.5 &1'9.3 3759.4 1852.1 6037.2 5964.3 7173.4 8018.2

Miles. 2.05 4.51 2.20

2.21 2.14 1.05
.3.43 3.39 4.08 4.56 4.50 5.41 2.77 3.81 2.88 I.60 4.01 2.0-2 1.82 3.11

Green Island, (flag) ....·. _.
Ora.ell

70 53 11.95 70 51 51.49 70 57 43.46 70 57 47.57
71 00 24.59

191 16 16
266 46 24

Signal..............

I
1

Nahant ··.····.·········.·. Nantasket.:-··· ·····..··...
~orchester Heights .······... ~antaBket ..···.··········· -

334 00 24 203 27 55 239 05 21 143 54 21 168 50 20 59 IO 37
73 47 42 259 01 58

6559.6 7332.1
7237 .0 8713.6

Blnii Head, {flag)..........
Grover's Clifi'.. ·· ·· ··· · ··· ·

7914.2 9528.9
4867.1 6711.2 5074.9 2811.6
706'1.6 3563.7

, J?eer Island·....·······..... I I
Nahant .··· --·-·-···- ·····.

4450.6

6137.0
4640.7 2571.0
6-i56.5

Clllltle bland · . · · · · · . · · · · · .
Point Shirley, (cbimney of fonndry.) Apple Island, (flag)......... South Bo8Wn Point..... · · · ·

253 45 31 79 03 12
65 02 21 77 10 07 288 34 19 57 05 19 216 07 38 176 36 06

Deer Island ...·...·······.. Dorchester Heights ..·.··.. - . Dorchester Heights.... · · · · . . Governor's Island . . . . · . · . . . . Deer Island................ DorchesterHeightl!.... ····..

70 57 59.13 70 59 11.37 71 0112.40

244 59 30
257 08 33

1

3"258.8 2932.6 5003.2
2112.6 7160.8

108 35 41 237 03 15 36 08 16 356 35 53

3207.0 5471.4

j Powderhom................

Governor's Island · . . . · · · · · · ·

2310.31 7830.8

3.31
4.45

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpliical Positions.
___ N_'am_e_o_r_sta_ti_·o_n_._ _ I;-_L_a_ti_·tu_._de_._
o , ,,

Section L-lrfassachusetts Bay.

Sketch A:
Distance. Distance.

__ Lo_ngi_"tu_d_e_._\ __ A_zi_m_u_th_._I,______T_o_st_ati_·o_n _ _ _ _ _;l_B_ac_._k_az_im_u_t_h. , 1

I Distance.
Miles. 1-97

Boston, State House ·······. Boston,Faneuil Hall........ :Bunker Hill Monument..... Boston, Cunard Wharf, (fisgstalf.) Boston, Long Wharf Station. Boston, Battery Wharf...... Boston, Cupola Lewis' Wharf Boston, Hollis Street Church. Boston, Hanover St. Church, {with :ck on spire.)

42 21 27.62

,, 71 03 30.00

o

,

o , " 3fl'I 05 44 73 13 59

Dorchester Heights ··.······. Corey's Hill ............... . Dorchester Heights.... · · · · · . Powderhom . . . · . · · · . . · · · · · · Dorchester Heights.... · · · · · . Powderhom . . · . . . · . · · · . · · . . Dorchester Heights .·..·····. Go·eruor's Island ·.·.·...··. Powderhoru ...·..··.······. Go·ernor' s Island .·.·.·····.
I
1 \

, " 147 06 35 253 11 0-2

o

Metres. 3166.3 6004 .5
3069.8

Yards.
346'2.6

6561L3
3357.0 5504.8

3-73
1.91
3.13

42 21 34.40
42 22 33.07 42 21 48.10 42 21 35.67 42 21 59.33 42 21 45 .46 42 20 57 .44

71 03 02.68 71 03 19.52

339 06 28 204 36 51
342 26 33 2".21 54 12

159 07 00

24 37 53
162 27 16 41 55 26

5033.8 4906.4 3716.8

5365.5
4064.6 3605.5 3045.3
5195.9

3.05
2.31

71 02

05.861

3 35 09 297 33 26
197 17 13 286 21 03
296 59 51

183 35 03 117 34 39 17 17 55
106 22 34 117 01 26
21 59 58

3":297 .0
2784.7 4751.3

2.05 1.73
2.95 2.00

71 02 32.71
71 02 38.16 71 0-2 38.96

3213.3

3514.0 3937.4
4489.4

0 0
?

201 59 12
290 30 06 200 09 48
314 19 35

GoYernor's Island .··.······. Powderhorn ··.·....·····.·. Governor's Island ..·.······. Powderhoru .··.··········..

I
'I

3600.5 4105.3
3444.8 4511.4 2472.0 6352.4
3420.2

·2.24
2.55 2.14

110 31 41 20 10 33

3767.1 49'33.5

2.80
1.54

71 03

32.081

205 50 53
343 51 28

I Powderhom .··············.

I Dorchester Heights ·········.

134 20 27 25 52 15 163 51 56 25 10 16 28 40 59

2703.3 6946.8
3740.2 50"24.7 3873.4
4483.5
8083.1.
"3\)2.1) .()

3.95
2.13 2.86
2.20 2.55
4.59 2.00

I

i

42 21 47 .93

71 02 56.38 71 02 45.27
71. @ 1.1..'CO

205 09 18 208 40 09
304 4.1 39

I
\

Dorchester Heights .······.·.

j Powderhorn ...····.········

4594.8 3542.0
4099.9
7~1.a

Boston, Navy-yard .········· 1 42 22 22.00

j Powderhoru .···· !"·· ········
GoYeruor's Island .·..···.·..
~owderhorn

&uth "Bosmn.,\"BD.n.a.Azy\um.\ 42.
=~)

~

124 43 18
\

(}l').1)6

.....·········..
· - - - ·· ·. - - - ·

G.o'lerll.()1'"' Mn.n.i\.

'32.1.S·S

Name of station.

Boston Point, (Bag) ··· -1 42 21 56.27

I i
I

Latitude.
0 , "

;- _Longitude.

I

I I
I

I

0

,

r

Azimuth.
0

71 01 23.71

"

. ,,

I

I

To station-

I

Baek azimuth. / Distance.
0

Distance. Distance.
Yards. 6635.7 2354.8

, ,,

286 48 50

j Deer Island ··.·····.··..·..
Governor's Island .··..·····. Deer Island ·.··...··.····.. Governor's Island ·.·.··.···. East Boston .·.··.··..··.··. State Honse ·..··.······.··. East Boston .···.·.··.··.··. Powderhorn .·.··.··.······· Dorchester Heights.·..··.··. Corey's Hill ................
Nahant ...··.·...·..······. Corey's Hill. ...............
.

East Boston Station ·······. ! 42 22 51.151 71 01 50.68

I i ird Island Signal. __ ··· _··. 42 21 20.79 I 71 00 54.91 i i
Ile Isle Signal.··· _· _··· _·

I I

l
i

315 40 49 298 12 55 3'26 43 40 155 24 10 93 24 07
S7 36 43 128 10 05

106 51 42 135 41 34 118 16 03 146 44 43 335 23 33 273 22 22 267 35 12. 308 08 47 183 41 11 235 40 47 97 29 20 208 54 59 84 47 03 156 09 47 73 33 37 3 2'2 20 134 27 13 210 15 51 211 12 59 73 36 00 224 40 56 64 52 43

Metres. 6067.9 2153.3

Kiles. 3.77 1.34
4.53 2.40 1.91 2.21

729-2.3 3867.5 3065.7 3555.2 3100.3 3364.2 6304.2 9527.4 13365.0 11545.4 4667.6 4766.1 3280.9 4520.6 4149.0 10914.9 5729.7 5731.8

7974.6 4229.4 3352.6 3887.9 3390.4 3679.0 6894.1 10418.9 14615.6 12625.7 5104.3 5212.1
3:'":>87 .9 4943.6

I

42 2'2 55.341

70 59 35.29 71 01 57.13 71 03 36.93

L93
2.09 3.92 5.9'2 8.30 7.17 2.90 2.96 2.04 2.81 2.58 6.78 3.56 3.56 4.16 2.58

misimet Village, (church Wi with clock.>

42 23 25.361 I I 42 25 58.S"/

waite No. I. .............. I
Ten Hill Farm ..····.·····.
Bridge, (chimney of yellow honBe at toll-gate.) Malden, ( talkpired church with clock.)

I
I
I

3 41 23 55 44 39 277 2'2 49 28 57 44 264 44 46 336 08 50 253 32 04 183 2"2 12 314 25 46 30 18 31 31 14·27 253 33 18 44 43 14 244 50 52

42 23 48.9-2 i 71 04 54.22
I

Powderhorn .···.·······.·.. State Honse .··.·····.·..·.. Powderhorn ·.··.····.·.···. Waite No. !. ...............

42 23 32.59 42 25 36.88

71 03 48.56 71 03 40.53

Somerville, (church on hill.)
erville, (church near MAIden bridge.)

42 23 10.19 \ 71 05 31.36 42 23 05.45 71 04 15.&l

I
J

I

Powderhorn .····.···.·····. Corey's Hill .·..····..··.··. Corey's Hill ···············. p .....m.m ..........·..... Corey's Hill ..·.·..·....·... Powderhorn ················

4537.2 11936.2 6265.8 6268.1 7313.0 4548.5

·

I

6687.3 4159.3

United States Coll$t S11rve:y.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
0 ' ,,

Section L-Massachusctts Bay~
To station-

Sketch A.

Longitude.
0
1 "

~~~1~~~~~~-~~--~~

I

.Azimuth.
0
I /I

I

I
r

Back azimuth. ) Distance.\ Di$'l;ance. Distance.
I
0
I II

JJ.fetre,s.

Somerville, (stone powderhouse.)

42 23 58.44 42 25 12.00 42 21 45.54 42 2-2 26.72

71 06 39.16 71 06 35.21 71 05 39.86 71 06 49.76 71 06 46.70 71.07 2'2.88 71 07 22.53

268 53 50 12 31 54

Powderhorn · · · · . . ··· · . · . ·· . Corey's Hill ··.. ·------...... Powderhorn ··.······.·.···. Corey's Rill................ Corey's Hill................ Powderhorn .·.. ··.. ·..· .·· . Powderhorn . . . · · · · . . . · · · · . . Corey's Hill ·....··.·.....·.

88 57 17
19"2 31 12 107 06 36 189 52 57 230 30 08 53 23 49 67 f>.5 24 198 17 44

7048.8 6543.8 72ii.2 8788.3 3597.9 709'J.9 7870.0
374s.o

Yards. 7708.4 71,56.l

Mil~.

4.38 4.07

Medford, (Unitarian church.)
Cn.mbridgeport,(Universalist church.) Cambridge, (Unitarian ch.)..

287 03 11
9 53 41

7958.l 9610.3 3934.6 7757.7

4.52 5.46 2.24 4.41
4.87 2.33 2.45 4.81 2.70 5.18

5!l 31 30 233 21 01
247 51 50 18 18 18
1s 28 es 248 52 42
5 32 17 254 42 02

I

8606.4 409.'3.7 4305.7 8-164.2 4749.9 9123.7 9448.4 10607 .1 9038.6 11231.1

Cambridge, (:&ptist clmrch.)
Cambridge Observ'y, (dome.)

42 22 32 .44
42 22 51.51 42 25 45.47 42 24 53.66 42 20 54.26

Corcy'sHill ..........··.·.. 198 27 31 Pmnlerhorn ...·.·.·.·.···.. 1 68 56 15 Corey's Hill ............... Powderhorn. ..· .·. ··· ·.. .·.

3937.3 7740.0 4343.5 8343.0 8640.0 9699.5 S:..'l65.2 10-270.l

-I

185 32 05 74 45 59 · 111 33 27 182 31 14 168 14 48 98 50 43 60 29 35 lll 33 16

Cambridge, (meridian Illlll'k.) Wea-t Cambridge, (church with clock.)
Brighton, (West church with clock.)

291 29 30 2 31 27 34-S 13 58 278 45 44 240 24 32 291 32 23

Powderhorn -----· ···· .··.·. Corey's Hill................ Corey's Hill ·.·.·· ------.... Powderhorn ...· .·.··. ·.·.·. Powderhoru ------ ---- ·.···· Corey's Hill ...·.·.... ------

5.37 6.03
5.14 6.38

71 08 54.84
71 08 59.29 71 08 52.03

1289-2.6 11789.5 19'21.7 i 2101.5

7.33
1.19 7.2'2 1.11
'i.27 1..00

Brighton, (East churcli).....

42 20 55.84

240 12 49
29~

57 09

Powderhorn ................ 1 60 17 46 Corey's Hill ...·...·.....·.. \ ll4 57 57
"i'o-w<le"<'1o=------ ---- -----c.,..,.,~- ~

11620.91 127.08.3 \ 1788.0 \ 1955.3
U694.ll \ 1.'r.B8.2
~1.'*>.'i

..

---- ----·· ------

~ ll~ <\<\ 1.~ ~1. "&,.

2'>\m.'C

Name of station.
Watertmm,(skylightofJ.P. Cushing'shouse.) Waite No. 2-----------;___ Ballard's Hill ......·. -----Chels~

(

Latitude.
c

(

Longitude.
0

(__ A_zim" _m_h_.-:i----T_o_st_a_ri_on _ _ _ _ / Rack azimuth. { Distance.

° , ,,
25-918 30 324 5414 283 47 24 11 58 58 28 11 15 299 39 53 19 33 16 65 59 54 201 06 01 309 51 34 348 38 33 54 16 31 0 16 01 WW34 314 33 56 111 30 16 50 18 29 79 08 37 18 20 11 98 20 06 Powderhorn................ Corey's Hill ................ Xahant. ·.. ------ ----···--· Powderhom ··---- --·· --·--· Powderhom --- _·· --- .·.· __ . Nahant. .·.. - ···..· - ··. __ .. Dorchester Heights ..· _.. _... Powderhorn .·.. :. --·· ·.···.

1·

0

,

"

42 2:'2 46.59 42 26 18.48 42 27 15.60 42 24 31-02 42 24 57 .38 42 25 41-53 42 26 08.70 42 26 11-31 42 25 07.24 42 25 58.45
42 28 05.18

71 09 49.25 71 00 52.08 70 59 11.51 71 00 05.22

78 24 05 144 55 40
103 52 04 191 58 32

Metres. 11635.6 5097.7

I

f Distance.
rards. 12724.4 5574.7

Distance.
.Miles. 7.23 3.17

9767.4 4281.9
6750.8

10031.3 468"2.6
731'"2.5 9044.4

6.07 2.66

208 09 41 119 43 25 199 36 49 245 58 56 21 06 49 129 53 19 168 39 04 234 14 26 180 16 00 23"2 50 03

8270.5

4.19 5.14
5.49 1.33

(village church)----

8830.1
2146.1 4-570.8 4646.7 4427.4 5213.5 5179.3 6436.9 3011-8 5415.0

9656.3 2346.9
4998.5 5081.5 4841.7 5706.8 5663.9 7039.2

Chelsea, (Cushman's house cupola.) Chelsea,(NeptuneHouscflagBtalf.) Chelsea.(CrusooHouseflag~)

71 00 23.53
70 58 25.69 70 57 46.52 70 55 30.98 70 53 58.75 70 53 32.26 70 55 55.33

Ballard's Hill............... Growr's Cliff ........ - . . · . . ·
Grover's Cliff .···.··.. ---·-· Powderhorn ...........··... Grover's Cliff............... Powderhom .... .·.. ...· ....

2.84 2.89

2.75 3.24
3.22 4.00 1.81 3.36 9.17

LittleNahani-------------Nahant Hotel.............. Egg Rock Signal ··········· Lynn,(Ea.stchurch with green wwer.)

Nahant ....··.· ---·........ Ballard's Hill ...·..... ·'--··
Dorchester Heights .··..· _. . Powderhom _.. · . · · . · · . · . . . .
~ah:int.... ..·· ·.·· ·... ·... Little Nahant...............

134 3.5 00 291 27 48
230 12 55 259 03 32

3293.5 5WL7
16139.1 11514.0 Wi7 .6 29'J9.5 11716.8
~-3

14758.2 10528.8
1808.4 2742.8 10714.3 6241-3

6.54
l.12
1.71
G.66

198 19 54 278 18 46
22.5 41 12 154 22 10

45 44 58 334 20 49

Powderhorn ···· --·· --·- ·... Nahant---· ---- --·· ---· ----

3.88

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Posui.ons.
Name of station.

Section 1.-:Massachusetts Bay.
To station-

Sketch A.
Distance. \ Distance. Dist1111ce.
Metres.

I

Latitude.
0
r
II

I l

Longitude.
0
I II

Azimuth.
C1

Lynn, (West church turret) ·. Lynn, (high rock, pole near
awing.)

42 27 43.77 42 28 03.00 42 30 08.31 42 30
~7.25

70 57 15.9'2 70 56 31.04 70 57 33.37 70 50 56.39 70 54 27.10 70 55 09.45 70 55 19.47 70 50 33.9'2 70 52 12.03 70 52 22.40
11.) .\;) &) .S?.

71 47 39 5 05 54 68 16 01 112212 237 50 40 142 53 13 80 34 57 223 59 43 31 03 43 319 05 30 29 12 46 307 04 40 49 20 42 280 30 57 39 13 25 48 41 0-2 52 32 01 337 14 56 55 04 12 126 26 40
63 11 00
4.1> l.l'I '.!.\.

'

,,
Ballard's Hill. .............. Grover's Cliff ............... Ballard's Hill ..··.····.···.. Grover's Cliff .·············. Thompson's Hill ..·. ---- .... Holt's Hill .··.·.·····..··.. Orne's Hill ...........··.... Thompson's Hill .... -----·-· Orne's Hill. ..·············· Coddon's Hill.·. ---- ........ Ome's Hill ....... ---·-···-· Coddon's Hill ............·.. Orne's Hill. .······.·······. Coddon's Hill ............... Ome's Hm ..··· ·--- .·...·.. Folly Hill ........ ---- ...... Orne's Hill ......... -·-· ·... Coddon's Hill ............... Orne's Hill ..·...·.. -------Folly Hill ....... - .. - ·. - .. - -

I

Back azimuth.
0

I

251 46 20 185 05 33 248 14 13 191 21 20 58 00 12 :t2'2 47 28 260 30 29 44 04 47 211 01 37 139 07 53 209 11 08 127 07 3-2

' "

2779.9 8144.5 3947.0 8879.9 22757.0 19-271.9 9186.6 14712.0 &241.7 7344.2 6731.7 7239.6 40-29.9 6106.8 15143.3 7080.5 9'242.6 4464.2 8659.2 3535.4
17741.0
9'391).1

Yards. 3040.0 8900.6

Miles.

1.73 5.06 2.45 5.52 14.14 11.97 5.71 9.14 5.12 4.56 4.18 4.50

.1!6.3 9710.8 24886.4 21075.2 10046.2 16088.6 9012.9 8031.4 7361.6 7917.3 4407.0 6678.2 16560.3 7743.0 10107.4 4881.9 9469.4
3...Q.66.2

Ome's Bill .··············· Coddon's Hill ·············· Folly Hill .....····...···.. Danvei:sNew Mills,(tall spire) South Danven, (spire) .····· Upper Beverly, (spire) ·····. verly, (powder-house) ···· :Beverly, (spire with turrets).
~~1'.

42 33 57.20 42 33 18.80 42 31 33.46 42 36 28.79 42_33 10.69 42 32 49.17
· 42. 'M ~:3'2

g .

t:

229 19 11 100 33 56 219 08 40 228 38 23 232 28 22 157 15 47 235 00 42 306 25 15,
'.M3 03 16
'.l.'£.1.)i~

2.50
3.79 9.41 4.40 5.74 2.77 5.38 2.20
11. 5.

(fu=cn, (.turret)

Orn.e's fill\ ..··.··..··..··.· ~~~s1:ll\\. ·· ~-·-·········

19401.0 1.0-itm ·.\

.

I "~---········· ······/
Name of station.

Latitude.
0

I
I

Longitude.
0
~
II

42 31 52.79 42 31 10.10

'

,,

l

f

I

I

Azimuth.
..
0
I

...

To station-

Baek azimuth. Distance.
0

,,
Orne's Hill .······.········. Folly Hin ..···.···.·.··..·. Ome's Hill. ................. Coddon's Hill .·.......··..·. Ome's Hill. ....·....·...... Coddon's Hill ..·...·.··· _... Orne's Hill ...··..·.···..... Coddon's Hill ..·..·...·..... Orne's Btll ······.······· _·. Coddon's Hill .... : ......··.. Ome's Bill ......···.....·.. Coddon's Hill .....··.··..... Ome's Hill ················. Coddon's Bill .·····.···.·... Ome's Hill ··.···.···.····.· Coddon's Hill .....·...·..... Ome's Bill ......·.......... Coddon's Hill ....······..·.. Orne's Bill .··········.····. Coddon's Hill ··········.·.·. Coddon's Hill ............... Folly Hill .·.···.·.······.···

,. .. '"-83~
70 53 ~ . ~I 70 54 11.681
10 50 32.98

66 35 00 140 23 57 70 28 29 276 06 38 78 31 32
2&2 39 35

246 31 19 320 22 22
250 25 50

'

,,

..

Dist.ance.
.

Dist1J1JCe1

Metres.

Yards.

8099.0 4982.9 5695.2 3715.4 4698.2 4494.3 9608.6 1163.9 10195.6 2488.1 6686.3 4323.5 7697.5 4242.7 7038.2 4529.9 4143.8 9279.8 6191.8 4244.2 8909.8 2058.9

8856.8 5449.2 6228.1 4063.1 5137.9 4914.8 10507.7 1272.8 11149.6 2720.9 7311.9 4728.1 8418.0 4639.7 7696.8 4953.8 ~ 4531.5 10148.l 6771.2 4641.3 9743.5 2251.6

Jtriks. 5.03 3.10

<ta11 spire>· ··· - · - ··. I

:ware's 1II11, (ftag-staft) · · · · · .
blehead, (blaek-t.op ch.) ..
lehead Neck, (ftag).····

I

t

96 08 27 258 29 12 82 41 47

3.54 2.31

42 30 38.69 42 30 23.73 42 29 45.03

70 50 07.90

. I I
I

I I

2,9'J 2.79

87 12 23 152 40 52 94 05 16 153 35 40

267 07 38
332 40 36

5.97
0.72 6.34 1.55 4.16 2.69 4.78

274 00 15 333 35 07 286 31 00 375256 287 50 06 24 11 18 289 12 14 32 18 03 338 47 56 54 39 15 283 30 32 45 49 47 129 38 57 93 37 14

lehead(Mr.Brookhou.se'sl 42 29 06.63 i:upola.)

.

70 52 52.65

106 34 IO i 217 51 37

.

Honse cupola ······ ~ ·

I
1
I

4.1? 28 51. 80

70 52 12.50 ! 107 70 52 42.35

53 43

204. 10 26

2.64
4.37 2.82. 2.58 5.77 3.85 2:63 5.54 1.28

Spire ~intb~r-howiel 42 28 53.15

109 15 31 212 16 51 158 48 40 234 35 31 103 33 30 225 48 17 309 35 33 273 36 13

J,y1ru, (smnmer-honse onhigb\ 42 28 03.12 rock.) !

Leg

Dan

~:::;::::.·.-.\

ti

0021.~

42 34 01.41

l

70 56 27.76

70 53 09.71 70 55 57.20

U1lited States Coast Stm:ey ..:_Geograpkical Positiona. .. Section !.-Cape.Ann.. Slcetc'h,A.
Name of station. Latirnde.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0
I II

Azimuth.

--0--,-,,-1
43 50 35 158 03 45

I
I
\

To station-

Back anmutb. \ Distance.
0 " ,,

Distance. \Distance.
Yards. 7893.6
21~.2

Beverly Point, (tlagon tree) ..

42 ·32 57.15

70 53 54.3i 70 50 14.81
70 49 53.64

Ome's Hill ....··..·..·..... Folly Hill .. - . ---· ..···.·...
Coddon's Hill............... I Folly Hill ··.·...· _. ..·.· - . .

223 48 07 338 tl3 23 204 09 37 300 49 25

Metres. 7'i18.2 1997.3

Niles 4.4S 1.24
4.1'1

Little Haste Beacon. . · · · · · ·
Coney Island, (tlag} ·.·· ···.

42 32 05.SO
42 31 40.97

24 10 05 120 52 20 46 43 21 123 59 50
52 57 23 109 11 12

2318.0

2531.9
7330.~

-

6703.5
1967.2 7522.4

vu

Coddon's Hill......... · . . . . . Folly Hill..................

226 42 38 303 56 45
232 55 39 289 07 04
257 08 '.Tl

~51.3

8226.3 4827.0 9640.4 5590.'3 11744.4

1.22 4.tl7

70 48 22.03

i Coddon'.s HilJ. · · . . · · · · . · · · . · I Folly Hill . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . .

4414.0

8815.5
5112.0 10739.5

2.74
5.48

gJ

Nortb Gooseberry, (tlag)....

42 31 31,06
42 30 30 .68 42 30 41.59

70 47 18.00

77 11 05 114 19 24 103 15 37 127 3.5 09 98 29 04 126 53 21

I Coddon's Hill...............

I 1''olly Hill. - ... - . . . . . . . . · . . .
I , i Coddou s Hill. .. · · · . · · . . · · . .

294 14 32
283 13 54 307 31 03

:~~
~.22 6.50

f
~

C8t Island, (pole on ea.at rock)

70 48 23.84
70 48 3!.22

I Folly Hill. . . · · . · · · · . . · · . . . .

3.577.2 10454.5

3911.9

11432.7
3587.8 11003.8

Cat Island, (fiag-sWf) .· - ··· CAPE ANN.
'TuoJ1Pso11's HtLL ··········

42 36 40-<\
42 36 43-80

'

7043~

.IN

I Coddon's Hill............... ! }'olly Ilill-..... · · · · · . . · . . . . I
I

278 27 28 306 49 ~

3280.8 10062.3

2.04 6.25

I ------ ······ ······· -·--· ·--- -·· ....
'I

Brown's Hill -· . · . . . ...... 'Baker's Island Light........

70 50 28.87

270 39 12

98 31 06
704650.08
\
-- -

Thompson's Hill . _... _. _. . . . Bolt's Hill .................

90 43 57 278 2Q 34

9500.3

10489.9
~-8

5.96
:\3-~
5.9-~

2153.5.7
9531.7

"·"- -- -- ------------ -.. ... ""

\ ..
_

42 32 09.61

2085333 75 45 4\l

'lo_ .\'l···· \A~<Jll\ ~ '2"'A 4'.-., .,.~- ~· _ \'llrown.'s 1l\\l

. .-.,. ._..,..

iThompson'sHill .··....·.... 285550 1 255 · Orne's Hill ...·.··..·.·· --··\ 38 34 1
.· - · _···· _····. \ 3\\4 U 10 ", ~~~ll!a~ ,,,.._·· ", ···~ J~? ~ ~

15151.3
~-4 ~'\S,.).

10423.6 16569.0
5903.5 \
&>1).\.1

9._4l

a.31">
-~-~

N1111Je ofstation.
:Beverly Bock-··. -- ·····...
,Kettle Isbmd -· ·· -· ·······..

f

Latitude.
0

, ,,

'

Loagitude.
0

, ,,

f

J

.A.zfumtll.
0

To stationBrown's Hill ..·............ Bolles . ·· .................. Baker's Island Light ..·.·..·. Bolles .·...··.···..··.··.·· Coddon's Hill .·············· Kettle Island ·····.. ., ·.·...

, ,,

f~k azimuth. /_Distance. D~- IDistauc~.
0

, ,,

Mftres.

42 33 56.88 42 33 59.38 42 30 07.45 42 42 17.29 42 40 51.29 42 39 53.65 42 39 21.63 42 37 40.99 42 39 22.82 42 36 09.86 42 38.O!Lils

70 49 53.85 70 43 00.78

171 11 25 240 19 04 57 05 51 109 03 58

351 11 02 60 20 52 237 03 17 289 01 05 283 12 31 31 09 27 128 05 35 194 48 34 2b7 58 17 146 30 44 292 21 21 156 56 47 284 31 44 276 12 29 296 29 40 331 01 53 237 16 10 200 52 54 7 10 21 350 53 58
296 34 34 261;23 P6

5211.4 4187.2
6231.6 6115.6

lards. 5699.0 4579.0
6814.6 6687.9 7328.3 9142.7 18467.3 25443.2 9387.5 10167.4 12718.8 7100.0 11221-8 8079.5 14368.8 4012.3 10166.9 3677.5 6561.8 31J!l.9 5557.6 6353.3

.Miles,

3.24 2.60 3.81 3.80 4_11 5.19 111.49 14.46 5.34 5.78 7.23 4.04 . 6.37 4.59 6.49 2.34 5.78 2.09 3.73 1.77 3.16 3.61

Halfway Bock Beacon ·····.
-Prospect Rowley .·········.

70 4610.24 I 103 15 44 ' 211 07 19 70 53 12.04 70 47 13.34 70 45 19.65 70 39 57.15 70 38 37.21 70 37 44.58 307 58 59 14 51 30 108 02 21 326 28 11 112 26 41 336 55 3-2 104 36 40 96 16 08 116 35 30 151 02 46 57 20 03 20 53 30 187 10 00 17(} 54 10 116 :l6 50 81 26-47

.Tilten's

Hill--·-··· ........
Hill ·.····..··.··.

IThompson's Hill ··....···... Ome's Hill ...·...···...·... IThompson's Prospect Rowley .····.····.. Hill .··.........
I Prospect Rowley ·····.······

1

f

6710.4 8360.4

16887.2 I 23266.2 8584.3 9".297.4 11630.5 649"2.5 10261.6 7387.6 13139.3 3760.4 9"297 .0 3362.8 6000.3 2847.5 508"2.l 58C9.6

~·s

I

Thompson's Hill ··········.·

Bader& Hill.·.·.·.....·...
:Baileut Bill .·.····....... Poole's Hill ................

Tilton's Hill .··.·.·····.·.·· Choate' s Hill ...... _. ........ Tilton's Hill .··········.·.·· · Bntler'.s Hill..·......·...... Thompson's Hill ............ Railcut Hill ····..·····.·. : .

Beacon Hill ··.···········.
Thatcher's Island ·········.

[ I

70

38

17.45

I Poole's Hill ·····.·········.
l
~cut

l.

/ P..ailcnt Hill ................

70 34 is.06

· j Poole's Hill .···············
Hill·: ..............

United States O()(/,$t Survey.-Geographical Posi,tions.
Name ofst.ation.
·1

b-ection L-f)ape Ann.

Sketch A.
Distance. Distance.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0 '
n

Azimuth.
Q
I II

To stationPoole's Hill .....·.·.····· _._ Thatcher's Island . . · · · · . . · . . Poole's Hill ·.·....····..·.. Thatcher's Island ......·.·.. Poole's Hill .··...···.·..... Beacon Hill .····..····.·... Beacon Hill ·.······.······. Thatcher's Island ·..···.··.. Poole's Hill .····.·····.·... .Andrews' Point ...···..·.··. Thatcher's Island ....·...... Poole's Hill ·.··...·..····.. Tilton's Hill................ Choate's Hill . . · . . . · . · . · . . . . Choate's Hill..... . · . . · · · · . . Ra.ileut Hill . . · · . . . · . · . . . . · . Tilton's Hill................ Choate's Hill . . . · . · . · · · . . . · . Butler's Hill............ · . . . Beacon Hill . · · . · · . . · · . . . . . .
~utlera

Back azimuth. Distance.

a

, "'

Thatcher'slsland(southlight) Thatcller's Island (north light) Londoner Spindle ..·..··...
Milk. Island···············.

42 38 10.95

70 34 10.46

114 28 09 80 10 19 111 49 01 ·47 24 3l
113 20 36 605925

294 25 44 260 10 09 291 46 32 22724 21 293 17 49 240 56 16 236 54 09 48 55 17
260 53 16 304 23 21

Metres. 5357.3 337.9

Yards. . 5858.6 369.5

Miles.

3.33
0.21 3.26 0.29

42 38 19.421 .70 34 09.83 42 38 04.38 42 37 39.761 42 39 42.50 42 40 57.12 42 39 41.15 42 39 25.05 42 40 39.69 42 36 57.86 70 33 38.13 70 35 10.60 70 34 57.96 70 37 25.60 70 40 34.10 70 40 18.44 70 38 54.66 '(0 41 44.78
'?(\ ~ ~-~

5268.0 471.4 6113.8 7279.4 5081.7 1376.4 3842.9 4074.3 6617.1
2941.5

5760.9
515.5 6685.9 7960.5 5556.2 1505.2 4202.5 4455.5 7236.3 3216.7 10218.5 7123.2 7562.7 4322. 7 12221.0 9710.8 5720.6 5415.l

3.80
4.57

56 56 16 228 54 46
80 55 09

3.16
0.86 2.39 2.53

fl.2

Straitl!moutb Island light..... Andrews' Point ·····.·····. Annis-squam Light......... Annis-equam Village (pole on rock.) Lane's Co\"e Church........ Woodward's Rill...........

124 25 01
321 34 17 8 26 58 103 25 45 93 25 14 97 21 29 324 18 12 91 51 14 80 49 48
207 56 22 2i!'I 22 53
17~

141 36 19 188 26 45

4.11 1.83
5.81 4.05 4.30 2.46

~-

283 21 14 273 22 01
277 18 05 144 19 21 271 45 36 260 45 27 27 57 36 107 25 12
'£% la 08 ·'.SQ '3'.;\ u

9344.2 6513.7
6915.6 3952.8

11358.2 8879.9 5231.1 4951.8

7.06
5.52 3.25

3.08
3.11
\,~

la

'll)

~1~ ~ ~-

1ID.\......... .. . . . . . .ll.aik,n.:um. .......~ """"''-~-'-

x-m-

Gloucester Church · · · .

I
0

uw, ,,

I

Longitude.
0

, ,,

l I

Azimuth.
0

I

To station-

, ,,

!

{Back azimuth.
0

Distauce,
Metres. 603-2.5 1845.9

Distance. Distance.

42 36 58.57

70 39 04-48 70 43 20.00 70 42 47.75 70 44 19.71 70 45 38.76 70 49 50.60 70 45 46.17 70 49 04.74

84 35 06
324 30 03

Thompson's Hill .···.······ Beacon Hill ......··..·. ----

·I

, ,,
OS

2&i 32

144 30 35

Yards. 6597.0 2018.6 9794.7 10698.3 5986.0 7330.0 9690.9 3428.6 9536.6 2476.7 8405.5 12755.6 2218-4 11279.0 3898.0 5661-0 3565.6 1975.2 4471-2 2697 .8 5934-4 102i9.3

M"&les. 3.75 L15
5.57 6.0S 3-40 4.17 5.51 1-95 5-42 1-41 4.76 7.25

'sMQUiltain(flagintree)l 42 36 57.63

143 37 24 87 32 25 9 38 45 301 36 40
71 41 17

Tilton's Hill .· __ · ___ ·. -- -- _.I 323 34 45 s . __ - - - .· _______ · 1 R rown'Hill I 267 27 34 Thompson's Hill ____ -- _·. --Railcut Hill---------------· Bro'ltll's Hill. __ ·· ___________ Thompson's Hill _.. _- ___ · __ .

8956.6 978"2.9 5473.8 670-2.8 8861-7 3135.2 8720.6 2"264.8 7686-4 11664.2 2028.6 10313.9 3564.5 5176.6 3260.5 1806.2 4088.6 2467 .0 5426.6 9408.9

Tw

......,.Lo.r .·..·.
· 's

······I

42 39 34.94 42 38 14.20 42 41 05.68 42 40 51-32 42 41 04_94

189 38 18 121 39 30 251 37 07 157 55 43 160 02 30 168 55 57

Hill------·-------

337 55 OS
340 01 01 348 55 45

Ipswich East Light .· __ ··· - lpawieh Spire ··.····.······ lpswiek West Light ···· -···

Thompson's Hill_ - _·· - ·· _·· Choate's Hill-----------·---

·I
-1I
i

I
'

6 30 56 3]1 36 20 78 01 24 38 39 23
.225 21 24 261 55 01

Brown's Hill._. ___ ··· _ . __ · _., 186 30 30 Thompson's Hill .····· ------ 1 131 41 39 Tilton's Hill. __ --- _____ . ___ Bro'ltll'sHilL ····. ------ ---Tilton's Hill._.--· __ ·· ___ Choate's Hill ··· _-- . ______
258 00 25 218 36 11

L 26 6-41

B umham Brown--------·-- 1393012
T en-Ponnd Island Light ····· 42 36 04.78 42 37 09.52 42 37 58.08

---! --1

45 22 39 81 57 33

2. 22
3.28

70 39 36.39 / 204 25 43 265 00 45 70 37 05.38 70 46 32.01 243 16 44 41 44 45 170 00 59 25;l 53 01

Railcut Hill ..·. __ ... -- _. _ .. , Beacon Hill .·.... -----·---Thatcher's Island ······ ___ - __ Beacon Hill ______ ·----·---Tilion's Hill ········· __ ····. Butler's Hill.·...·..··..··..

242623 85 01 38 63 18 33 221 43 56
350 00 31 72 57 38

2. 03
Ll2

Salt Island, (flag) ·········· E ssex, (red top chnrch). -- - -

2. 54
L 53

3. 37 5_ 85

United St<aes Coast Surr:cy.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
Q
I

Section L-Coast North
To station-

of Cape Ann. · 'Sketch A. ·
Distance.
Metres. 6194.2 3512.7

~~~~~~~--~~-1-~~~~-1-~~~~~,-~~~~-;-~~~~~~~~~~)~~~~~-~~~~-!-~~~!,~~~
JI

I·

Longitude.
0
I ''

I

Azimuth.
0
I II

1

Back azimuth.
O
I 11

Dist~ce. \Distance.
Yards. 6773.8 3841.4

M"alu.

Burnham EsseX-----· -- . ---

42 38 59.62

70 46 43.33 70 40 11.91 70 39 32.72 70 36 48.51 70 33 44.74

314 02 37 168 47 17

Thompson's Hill ··.. -....... Tilton's Hill................ Bntler'sHilJ .·····.· - ··· ---Railcut Hill----···-·------Thatcher's Island .. _... - - - - . Beacon Hill ____ ·- .· - -- - -- . _ Andrews' Point ...··.... --·· Thatcher's Island........... Andrews' Point . . · . · · . . · . · . . Poole's Hill .··.·. ·-----....

134 04 49 3-18 46 57 7 20 02 107 27 45 48 25 12
33 57 12

3.85 2.18

Dogtown, (lfethodist church) · 42 38 02.!17

187 19 52
287. 26 41
2"28 21 213 56 21

2633.4 2"261.5

2879.8
2473_1 10-45.5.8 3360.4 3180.2 4434.9
5652.0 6259.7

LM
1.41

Eastern Point Light.. __ - __ .
Rockport, (church" with red top.) Salvages------------------

42 34 47 .24 42 39 26.93 42 40.

«

9378.3 3072_9
2908.1 4055.4

5.83 1.91

163 07 12 306 18 36 103 23 44 72 35 45

243 06 47 126 20 13

L81 2.52

18.381

283 21 14 252 33 03

5168-4 5724.1

3.21
3.56

COAST OF MASSACHUSETTS KORTH OF CAPE il"'N. PowowHill................
Crane Neck. ···.·········· Old Town_ .···..·········. Newbmn_mrt, (Harris street
eb.meh.)

42 51 55.18
42 4611.82

70 55 57.76 70 5810.70

328 48 02
28 57 37

Thompson's Hill . . . · . . · · . . . . Holt's Rill---·····--···--·PowowHill..... .·····.··.·· Old Town ........·.· - , · · · · . Powow HilL. .·· . . · · . · . · · . . . Tilton's Hill................ Craue Neck................ Prospect Rowley...... · · · . · ·

148 56 31 208 50 45 15 55 17 91 05 30 326 09 15 154 11 16 242 58 31 187 48 27

32985.6
28514.3 11016.1 10251.5

36072.}
3118-2.4 }2046.9 11210.7 14191.5

20_5()

17.72

271 00 24

195 53 47

6.Bt·
6.37

42 46

05.74
m."l'\..

70 50 3!L8l 70 52 02.66
. "I\\ a\..-

\146 334 12 08 5.1 56
63 02 41 7 49 14
~

12977.2

10779_0 9385.8 11603.3

11787.6
10-264.0 12689.0
3911).2
1~~1}

8.06
6.70

42 4B 29_87
~"l

5.83
7.21.
2
2'"~

"lie"'"\>"'"S\l'>-rt.. (..'\:\~" G:r-. · 4,'.?.
"-"'-~)

.

\

""-\'Q

1..\> \'t1.
~

.

:t\\ ''-

.\old. 'l'o"?---~----~--------·

~e""K~ ··-- ····--~·-·--

1~ 16.~

~~'\'A

~.Ill

Name of statioo.

I
I

I

Latitude.
0 · ,,

l
I

Longitude.
o ' "

l

Azimuth.
o
I
!I

To stationOld Town ···········.·····. Crane Neck ............... . Old Town ·····.···········. Crane Neck ·········.····..

Back azimuth.
0
I ''

Dist8llee.
Metres, 4983.5 9573.l
6424.2 8785.4

Dist8llce. Distance.

1~~~~~-1-~~~~~~~~~-1

Newburyport,{Pleasantstreetl church.)

42 48 36.60

70 51 58.11

339 04 18 62 13 09

159 05 11
242 08 56

Yards. 5449.8

M"Jes.
3.10 5.95 3.99 5.46 5.16 2.W 3.13

10468.9
702-5.3 96tn' .5

Belleville Church ··········· j ·.H 49 04.94 , 70 53 03.74

3'29 22 50
52 35 02
30 58 18 160 12 30

149 :l-l-28 232 31 34 210 56 IO 340 11 53 314 33 07 63 19 55
307 02 56

Bartlett· . · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · . · I 42 50 02. 63
,llyfield Church. · · · · · · · · · · · · l;lowley Church ·· · · · · · . · ·· . 42 44 17 .17 42 42 57 .17 42 43 02.06 42 44 15.22

70 55 lr:l. 70 70 55

drnne Neck ..·..·.·.....·..
Powow Hill .······.·..···... Crane Neck ··.··.·.···.···.

8304.51 3690.7
5040.8 7456.0
9960.3 6259.1
3916.3"

9081.6
4036.0 5512.5 8153.7 10892.3 6844.8 4282.8 6201.4 4090.7 9-252.0 6011.9 9946.8 8582.7 3227 .5 10362.4

32.761
I

134 34 54 243 16 36

Old Town ···········.·····.
Crane Neck ··········.···.. Old Town ·····.·.···.··.·..

I

4.63
6.19 3.89
2.43

70 52 21.291

127 06 53
201 37 41
69 21 50 177 58 31

21 38 50 249 20 01 357 58 25 193 24 22 295 07 49 173 43 12 347 51 03 152 01 37 339 54 28 315 37 13
230 42 15

Town Farm, (tree on).......

10 50 ao:99
70 52 33.91

Prospect Rowley ··········.. Old Town .··.··.····.·····. Prospect; Rowley... · . . · · · . . . Crane Neck.... · · · · . . · · · . . . Prospect Rowley............ Bartlett....................
Tilton's Hill ...·....·....·.. Old Town .·.·.·.···...····.

5670.8
3i40.7 8460.4

3.53

Ox Pasture·····.······ ---Dummer Academy.........
Rowley Marsh ·············

13 24 48
115 11 38

2.:12
5.26
3.42

42 45 14.42
42 44 35.91

70 53 38.50

353 42 54

167 52 00
331 59 47 159 54 58 135 40 31 50 42 34 109 08 36

5497.5
9095.7

5.65 4.88 1.83 5.89 0.52
5.71

I
I

10 49 55.'22
70 50 11.13

7848.3

Little Hill, Old Town ·······

42 46 23.03

Plum Island East Light ····

91 51 00

IBartlett .·············..··.. ' Hartl_ett ·.··.....··..······. · Illims Street Church········
I Old Town .··.··.······..·..

1

2951.3
9475.7
842.3

g-:n.1

289 04 15 271 48 43 ,

9193_5 . '4600~8

1'}053.7
0031.3

2.86

United 8tp.tes Coast 8u"1e1j.-Geographical. Positiom.

..

Section L-_Coast North of Cape Ann.

Sketch A ·

___ N_am_e_of_stati __ ·o_n_._ _ _ _ La_ti_·tu_._de_._;_Lo_ngi_·_ru_·a_e_._/ __ A_z_im_u_th_.-:----T_o_st_an_·on__ _ _ _ /_Bac_k_azimuth.
1

Distance. \ DistBDee.
Metres. Yards.

Distan~
Miks. 5.64 2.78
6~66

:::
Thomp~on's

::~_:.._::::I
Hotel, Plum

0

,

,,

0

I

"

Q

I

II

0

,

"

42 48 25.08

70 48 45.82 70 47 56.60 70 48 27.46 70 48 27.50 70 47 54.48 70 47 12.65 70 46 30.38 70 51 17.89 70 48 45.45 70 53 30.80

109 24 30
91 54 43
42 03 55

Bartlett ...·. _..··.········· Harris Street Church .·····.. Prospect Rowley ···.·······. Hanis Street Church .....·.. Powow HUL ········.······. Tilton's Hill ....·........·..

289 20 14 271 52 25
~0026

9074.1 4474.2 10713.6 6616.9 12623.o 13191.5 9798.5 5003.J 8405.3 3993.4 6623.1 '
5627 .3
4095.~

9873.2 489-2.9 11716.1 7236.0

42 46 35.20

122 20 54
125 56 14 352 39 09
113 40 02 19"2 19 0-2

302 18 07 305 51 07

4.11

42 47 55.32
42 47 55.34 42 45 22.01

Island.
Thompson's Flat ·.·.······. Wood's Hot{!}, Plum Island .· Plum Island (2) ····

172 39 59 293 35 33 28"4 16 36 173 36 44 289 43 47 180 08 19 303 09 12 193 48 52 315 14 36 259 51 18 173 59 57 211 21 58 19-2 2.t 58 122 44 45 170 08 17

I
I

13804.1 14425.8 111715.4 5471.2 9191.8 4367.l 7242.8 6153.8 4478-4 &l13.6 5670.0 9040.5 9402.6 1319904

7.st

Bartlett .....··.·....·.···..

Harris Street Church ..····..
Tilton's Hill.. - ...... _...·.. Old Town .··.·············. Tilton's Hill ······ ,. ········ Old Town .·······.···.····. Tilton's Hill ............... . Old Town ..··..········.··· Bartlett ..·.······.....· - · . . Old Town.................. Harris Street Church........ Old Town... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Seabrook...... · · · · . . . . · · · . · Harris Street Church........

353 36 16

109 45 39

3.ll '.· ~ 5.22 . 2.48 ~'f:

:~:

,.,,
~

----····I
-

42

.u 25.95
43 00.18

0 08 20 123 11 33
13 49 21 135 17 25

4.12 3.50
2.54. 5.01

East end of Barn, P}um Island.
SaliaburyChurch...........

I 42

8059.5
5184.8
~-0

42 50 32.20

7" 53 51 353 59 31
31 24 12 12 26 16
350

3.22

5.H
5.34 7.50

Seabrook .····..····.····.· \42 52 25.76
Hampton Falls............
\

8598.l 12070.0 7694.7 11671.6

42 54 42-55

302 41 30 (J7 17
17 05
31)

~bur(Beacn......

······

42 50 47 .25

.\'l\) ~ ~

Old. Town .··· ·-·-·· ··.··· 197 04 10 ~nto<>'s,...................\ ~ ~ \lQ·

J

~ 12773.9 8414.7 \ \

4.78 7.25
5.65
\.\}~

9086.6 9936.8 t\\l)\,'i> . ~l. .<\

llT1iud Statt'$ Coast Suroey.-GeograpAicid .Positions.·. BectW7i z:..:..;..Port9mouiA Entrance.
Name of station.

&etcA .A.·

Salisbury Marsh, (flag) ·····. Salisbury Powderhouse ······ West Salisbury Church .···· Batt's Hill .·.··.·····..... Great Boar's Head .·······. PORTSMOUTH TRANCE.
E...~-

(

Latitude.

I

Longitude.

.Azimuth.
0

0

I

42 51 05.04 42 51 20.27 42 50 37.81 42 52 14.04 42 55 03.61

"

0

I

,,

I

,,

I

To station-

Back azimuth. / Distance. / Distance. Distance.
0

,

70 49 50.56 70 54 30.30 70 54 40.15 70 53 11.52 70 47 24.83

210 04 19 289 30 48 19-2 11 46 27 45 57 25 15 16 143 34 47 174 3'2 48 31 54 42 20 50 00 27 27 27

Seabrook .···..············. Salisbury Beach ..···.······· Hampton Falls .···········.· Crane Neck ················ Bartlett ..···.····.···.·.··. PowowHilL ·······.········ Hampton Falls .···········.. Bartlett .·.····.···..······. Seabrook .·····...········.. Harris Street Church ·· ~.~--·

30 05 03 109 31 34 12 12 27 207 43 27 205 15 01 323 33 54 354 32 37 211 53 26 200 49 05 207 24 18

"

Metres. 2949.2 1643.1

Yards. 3225.2 1796.8 6983.2 11759.6 1312.4 3244.5 5033.8 5223.6 5626.2 14968.1

Miles. 1.83 1.02
3.97 6.68 0.75 1.84 2.86 2.97
3.20 8.50

6385.7 10753.4 1200.1 2966.9 4603.1 4775.7 5144.8 13687.4

. =

i
42 59 13.tJ&. 43 01 56.74 43 03 35.31 42 58 00.40

i

Isles of Shoals, Hog Island ·. Pulpit Rock ···· -----······ Newcastle .················ White Island Light ·········

70 36 29.o\ 70 42 47.~ 70 42 59.32 70 .63
I

12 52 59 166 19 49 185 48 24 300 30 14 354 49 15 312 27 01 199 45 39 168 55 06

Thompson's Hill ..··....··.. AgamenticW! .··· ····.·····.. Agamenticns ········.····.. Isles of Shoals ·············· Pulpit Rock ..·.······.··... Isles of Shoals .············· Isles of Shoals ········.····. Agamenticus ················

192 48 14 346 16 36 5 49 28 120 34 31 174 49 23 132 31 27 19 46 03 348 52 17

42819.2 26990.2 21281.3 9940.0 3053.8 11981.0 2382.4 29007 .7

46825.8 29515.7 23272.6 10870.1 3339.5 13102.1 2605.3 31722.0

26.61 16.77 13.22 6.18 1.90 7.44 1.48 18.06

1

Un:ted States OotlSt Survey.-Gcographical Positio11S.
Name of station. COAST FROM s..~co RIYER TO CAPE ELIZABETH.
MOUNT L"iDEPENDENCE - - - - - -

Seetimi L-Saco Ri,ver to Cape Elizabeth.
To station-

Sketclt A.
Distance.

I

Latitude.

I Lo~e.
0 , ,,

Azimuth.

I

Bal!k

az~uth.1 Dist~ce. \ ~auce.
' ,,

0

I

U

43 45 32.17 43

70 18 53 .

.q

._,

0

,

,,

0

Metres.
3&350.1

Fletcher's Neck ·······.···.
Blue Point Hill ··.·....·. - · Stratten I.sland · · · · · ··.···.
Grandy Hill.---- .··..·....

26 50.9\

I

70 20 11-9\

'

60 54 21.3 26 55 49.0
116 00 38 182 55 06

····.···.····. .Agamenticus ·.·..·········. Ossipee .·····...····..····. Mount Independence ....... .

Ossipee·;-~--

240 36 56.2 206 40 27.6
295 44 10 2 56 00 7 53 06

Yanis. 42485.3
72895.9

66699.8 35805.3

Maks. 24.14 41.44

39155.6
37888.0

22.25
21.53

34646.2 23174.5
ll730.9

43 33 08.28 43 30 2L27 43 33 45.22 43 32 25.24
43 38 46.43

70 21 14.72 70 18 20.17 70 15 37.72 70 13 58.62 70 16 13.15 70 14 50.95 70 12 30.64

187 51 28
353 05 18

Mount Independence .·.····. Fletcher's Neck ··.····.··..
Fletcher's Neck .·····.··.·· Blue Point Hill .··.···.·..·. Fletcher's Neck .·····.·.··. Stratten Island .··.··.···...
Stratten Island ....······.·. Grandy Hill ............... .

173. 06 02 201 08 25 3'22 43 55 205 41 47 210 04 36
236 53 46

25342.9 12828.6 7612.2 7080.5 15519.7
7954.6 7664·_7

14.40
7.29 4.32

21 09 41
142 45 55

6960.9 6474.7 14191.8 7274.0 7008.9 3322.5 13022.8
8966.6

4.IJ2
8.82

25 44 55 30 06 28

4.52
4.35 2.06

Richmond Island ····. ------

56 56 46
137 59 13

317 58 05 344 01 39 146 12 48 196 Ol 57 169 08 25 336 44 49 255 42 29
125 52 48 49 21 31

3633.4

Bnunhall's Hill ...·. : ..·.··

164 03 291 - Mount Independence · -···.·. John's Hill .·...··..···.···. 326 10 14 16 02 29 349 07 49
156 49 13 75 48 31
~

14241.4
9805.6

8.09 5.57

MnuntJoy ............ ---John's Hill.·..·.....·. -- .. SaeoChurch ··············
\

43 35 43.50 43 34 45.00
43 30 01.29
· \

Grandy Hill ·...·...·····... Richmond Island ···········.

3797.5
6229.6

4152.S 6812.5 23764.1 13268.4
109'.71.I>
g()S2. _6

2.36
3.87 13.M 7.54
6.23
{>.00

Mount Independence .·.··... Blue Point mu ............ .
Fletclier'sNeck .·.·······.·
~\u.e

21730.8 12133.1
10032.8
SSM.1.

70 2613.81\3051839
18

oa

'Pmnt Hi1l.---· ---- ···.

Name of station.

Latitude.
o , ,,

Longitude.
c , ,, -

.Azimuth.
... 0
... -1 ....

To station...

I
~

Back azimuth. Distance. {Distance. /
l~~i-·12784:3· 7101.2

D~ce:
6.26 4.04
2.58 5.16

,,.~---·

·~---~~--

...........

~e_,,_,_,, _____ .Metres.-·--Yard.s....... .,_.M'lles.

Blue Point Hill, (tree).----- -~u....., vv.®· ~-tM-19~6-1-352"'31,~18\

~ $\ '\~)
43 31 02.85 43 28 00.23 43 27 22-82 43 27 42.27 43 29 30 .13 43 33 19.04 43 26 47 .28 43 31 53.64

.;A

\\.~.a;' '3!1'-.m49

Fletcher's Neck----·--·----' "'17:n!i).""01;' Stratten Island ..·.··.·. ·-·· i4·~~ Blue Point Hill.----····--·Fletcher's Neck .. _...·. - - . .
210724 159 30 40

Staples' Boarding-house--·-· Bamlsland,(tall tree).-----·
Stage Island Monument.... -·

70 22 21.31 70 21 04.95 70 20 45.8-2 70 21 53.18 70 27 11.41 70 17 21.19 70 20 59.02 70 18 53.23 70 ~9.f4.95 70 13 54_98

201 06 38 339 29 11

4149.5 8300.5 2448.9 9508.8 6495.9 10680.l

4537.8 9077.2 2878.0 10398.5

330 52 31 178 40 42
210 42 41 176 31 06 224 16 10 184 54 14
229 55 07

Neek ... _...·· -··· ' 150 53 08 Fletcher's. Blue Point Hill.... _····. - . - -1 358 40 35
Stratten Island. _. __ · _·.. _·.. I 30 44 21 Blue Point Hill...·· - · - - - - - · - 356 30 46 Stratten Island... - ... - · - . - - . Blue Point Hill._. __ - ·. - . - - - -1

I

1.52

5.91
3.98 6.64
4.26

Beacon on pier, mouth of Saco riTer. Biadefurd, (tall spire) .·· - - · Hlibba.nl's Point, (house).-· Pool, (cupola of old house.)
war~

I
I

i

7005.3 11679.4
7495.7 11042.0

44 18 36
4 54 41

6854.3 10097 .2

6.27
6.60 6.61
7.81 3.51

297 29 2"2
17 46 23 13 34 29

Blue Point Hill..· - .··· - - - - - . \ 49 59 13 Fletcher's Neck ·· _·· - - ·· - ... i 117 34 11 Fletcher's Neck ·· __ - -- -- · -- -1 197 44 26 Strntten Island ... _. - - ·. - .· - . j 193 33 48 Stratten Island .......·. __ ··. ! 28 24 36 Blue Point Hill __ ..·.·..· _.·. J 358 16 53 Blue Point Hill.. ··..·····... / 305 56 15 Stratten_ Island.....··...·.· · 1 165 24 07 Blue Pomt Hill... _......... _, Richmond Island .·..··..·.. ·
35 11 56 I 346 57
. :l8

10462.8
10631.2 12576.4 5643.1

11441.8
11626.0

i

13753.2
6171.1 8208.9 12863.1
429D.4 \ 32"20 .6

208 22 47 178 17 04
125 57 53 345 23 44

I

7506.5 11762.5
39-23.3 2945 .0

4.66 7.31
2.44 1.83

J;Tout'sNeck, (LIDby'shonse).
'Wood Island Light··· ___ ··-·

43 27 23_01 43 32 36_73

166 58 51
218 08 11 12 58 05 95 40 33

10936.4

11959.7

6.79
7.:rl

11862.5 9918.2
364.o

12972.5

Richmond Island, (barn on)..

Rid1mond Island .·. _···· _··· \ 19"2 58 02 Blue Point HDI············· - l 275 35 31}

I 10846.3 398.1

0.23 6.16

United States Coa$t Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Nllllle of station.
Ri.c:hmondisland, (Dr. Cummings' chimney.) Cape Elizabeth West Light.. Latitude.
0 , ,,

Section L-Saco River to Cape Elizalieth.
To stationBlue Point Hiil..··········.. Richmond Island ..·.·..····. Richmond Island............ Grandy Hill..... ---· .... ---Richmond Island............ Grandy Hill.. ····. ----...... Stratten Island.---·........ Blue Point Hill............. Stratten Island.---- ······.. Grandy Hill ............... . Richmond Island .·.· - . -- · - .. Elue Point Hill ...··..·.···. Mount Misery.............. Blue Point Hill............. Grandy Hill .....··..·..·... Bramball's Hill ............ .

Sketch A.

·r.ongii:de.
0 , ,,

Azimuth.
0
I 1'

Back azimuth. Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
o ' "

1-~~~~4-~~~~-1-~~~~-1-~~~~~~~--~~<-~~~~-l~~~-11-'~~-1·~~~

43 32 37.91 43 33 49.81 43 33 56 .30 43 33 21.85 43 33 24.91 43 35 45.75 43 39 54.04 43 35 13.84

70 14 0-2.79 70 11 49.43 70 11 40 .86 70 14 10.21 70 15 40.76 70 13 20.94 70 14 34.31 70 21 51. 01

95 33 50 3463216 48 01 26 88 26 08 47 44 46 862027 45 13 42 87 31 32 32 17 20
186· 13 04

275 28 52 166 32 19
227 59 57 268 23 31 227 43 11 266 17 43

Metres. 9740.5 40-2.1
3900.7 5125.0 4177.5 5326.4 7908.5 9536.6 6702.3 630.5 6245.1 11687.5 7837. I 15407 .8 8810.1 10020.6

Yards. 10651.9 439.7
4265.7 5604.6 4568.4 5824.8 8648.5 10428.9 7329.4 689.5
68-29.5

.M"lks. 6.05 0.25
2.42 3.18 2.59 3.31 4.91

Cape Elizabeth East Li,,abt...
Jordan's Barn, (pole on east end.) Yellow House, (west base of Grandy hill.) Mount Misery----- ···· ---Munjoy Observatory ·.·· ---Scottaway Hill, (Waterhouse's

225 10 49 267 26 39 212 15 33 6 13 06 187 46 43 245 23 22 167 53 36 215 36 15

5.93
4.16 0.39

rn.

7 47 07 65 28 49 347 42 45 35 40 51

12781.1 8570 .4 16849.5

3.88 7.26
4.87 9.57 5.47 6.23

house.) Bennett's Hill.) House, (Brown's
Spurwink Church .····. ···.
Sand "Kno\1, (.o~~sit.elli.cl>.mond isllmd..)

i.;lj;l.,ii;l,,,W,..la-!-oi~4i'....."""''"t::~~~t~~..)..~=::J:~;;;~;,;;~.;:ji==:::;..~==~::j:~tj:=~:~43 34 45.47
4.3 33 12Jl9

70 14 46.80
'lll 1.5 00.56

177 01 30 225 59 15
316 ()() 39 J.~ 4.7 . .\3

Mount Joy.··..··.·. ----.... Mount Misery .·.· ·-----....
lli.ehm.ond "l_;ilmd. ______ -----(inwi\.1 Rill------ .... -----~

357 01 27 46 .00 14
1~

1792.7 2677 .5
'2006 .1. . 1.U9.7

1960.4 . 2928.0
'l193 .s
l.4A3-l.

Lll 1.66
1.~

m 'a

:D\ 4.7_ 1.7

ll.82

Name of station.

{

Latitude.

Longitude.
0
I II

I

.Azimuth.

To station-

&ck azimuth.
0
I
II

Distance.

I
0

~- /Distmwe.
Tanis.
3671.1

liigh Read Point, (signal) . ···

, ,, 43 33 30.30
0

,

II

70 11 58.75 70 15 16.43

53 17 05 952237

Richmond Island .··········· Grandy Hill .·.····......·.. Richmond Island ············ Grandy Hill ···.·······.····

233 15 42 275 20 06
120 38 50

.Jldml.. 3357.0 4935.5

5397.3
2219.8

M"ilu. 2.08 3.07

Ram Island, (signal mouth of Spunrink river.)

43 32 58.77

161 34 20

300

~.

3'113406

2029.9 1511.2

1652.6

l.26 0.94

Uii4ed &ates Coast Surrey.-Geograpliical Positions. Section IL-Primary Statwns. Sketch B, No. 2.
Name of station.

Fm.: IsLA!<D BASE, (Long Island,)

~East end\ West end

I
I

Latituile.
0

Longitude.
Q
I "

40 40 00.83 40 37 47.14 40 50 39.21 40 48 52.60

'

n

73 0"2 59.60 -----· ---- ---73 12 31.74 252 53 36.6 East Base.................. 73 01 37.99 5 33 35.0 32 50 37.1

l l

Azimuth.
0
I II

Th station-

I

.:} I!
.Miks.
~

tO

Back azimuth. , Distance. \ Distance. , Distance.

.-14059.0 ~~~--. l. .}~~~~. -_...... ------ ---··- .... ---- ---- ----1----72 ~---'--'-'--59 49.3 15374.5
East Base .·.· __ ···....····. West Base .·.····...·.·.··· East Base ·..· ------ ..···... \Vest Base .... -----·· ..·.·. Ruland's Hill ..···.. -------Ruland's Hill .·.··...·..··.. \Yest Hills ....··..····.··.. Tashua Hill .···....···.···. West Hills ..··. -- ...····... Ruland's Hill .....·..···.... Bald Hill.. ·.·..·.·.····.·.. West Hills ...·........··... Bald Hill ······.· - .·····.· - Harrow .··.·.·.····....···. West Hills ······..···...·.. Round Hill .·····.. - - ···· - ·· Harrow .· --·· .. ---- ···· ---Buttermilk Hill .········.··. Harrow ------------------Weasel ..·················.

:"'

.....

8.74 12.29 17.60
21.94 16.90 20.69
~L85

Ruland's Hill ...... ---- .... West Hills ······.········.

185 3:'2 41.7 212 43 30.5 117 48 13.1 139 03 45.3 84 27 37.5 158 27 20.9 196 32 35.6 74 53 46.1 174 18 30.7 137 42 31.7 16 27 03.1 84 14 33.1 53 21 39.4 175 07 52.4 146 57 18.1 93 36 44.6 157 24 48.4 50 48 39.0 100 49 30.0

19783.1 28325.3 35304.5 27198.5 33296.5 49641.6 51589.4 19794.4 44476.9 55510.4 48052.4 18138.1 20475.6 33983.3 38232.5 11528.4 :r7465.l 40882.9 46962.6

21634.2 30975.7 38607.9 29743.7 36412.0 54286.5 56416.6 2J646.6 48638.6 60704.5 52548.7 19o"'35.3
223l}J .5

Tashua Hill ------- ·..·.... Bald Hill .................

41 15 35.41 41 12 47.39

I I

73 25 12.251 297 33 43.4 318 55 29.2 264 12 12.9 73 14 41.16 73 28 21.61 338 18 46.5 16 39 30.0 254 44 45.3 354 16 26.4 317 24 59.0 196 20 42.2 264 06 10.0 233 13 55.9 355 06 31.4 326 47 32.4 273 31 20.4 337 18 04.2 2-30 33 51.2 280 28 01.6

{Q

32.06 12.30 27.64 34.«9

0 e ~.

·'<

~

Harrow ·····..··.·······..
Round Hill..···...··..··..

.. ., 52Jl9

73 38 02.17 73 40 05.79

29.86
11.Z'/ 12.72 21.12 23.75 7.16

41 06 10.65

·'
:Butterinilk Hill ....·.......
4l 06 33.91 40 52 34.18
~

37163.1 41809.9 12607.1 40969.7 44708.4 51356.9

73 48 18.96 74 10 52.41
7.\ 1.'3 22..\\6 \

23.28
25.(0 29.18
M.7G
~-M

Weasel.---- ...·.....··...
~u "Hill

·····.····· ··--

'.!2

~.7.\

...~'A-~-\\ 'HD.now_ ......... -·.·-"·:.~;-~

1.~ '3:> 2.\.7

;,;;9.\9.8 6118.\.7 '3 m 02.1. 4.f> . .\.\). ~:'1.:, ,~-.\ .··7~'3c~

Name ofstation.

(

Latitude.
0
I

f

Longitude.
0 , ,,

.Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To station-

Back azimuth.
0 , ,,

Distance.

- ........e. D ts

h>-- I n:~-wwoo.
.u...

'---'--~~~~~~~-;-~~~~

II

Springfield---- -- ------ ---Disboro' ------------------

40 41 19-44 40 14 45.43 40 22 00.56

74 21 05.44 74 27 06.10 74 43 06.14

258 26 31L9 342 39 56.7 189 M,US.1 233 55 39.3 300 32 22.8 268 51 57.9 156 14 04.5 216 54 16.5 232 10 12.8 296 34 50.2

Harrow . ------ -----. ------

BeaconHill.----------·---· Springfield·-------------.--BeaconHill---------------·
Disboro' __ .. _.. -----. ____ ..

78 54 36.9 162 44 57.8
9 50 12.2 54 04 32.3 41 07 46.1 120 42 43.8 89 1113.5
336 08 33.1 36 59 04.9

Jlldres. 618frJ.O 36685.8

Yards. 67585.9 40118.5

.Miles. 38-40
22.80 31.00 14.94 29.43

49891.0 - 54559.3 24048.4 26"298.6 47366.7 26342.5 42091.3 51798.8 28807.4 460"29.8

.lfount Rose------ ----- _ _. __

220 53 27.8

Springfield----------------·

16::h'

Beacon Hill .... -----------Mount Rose ...........·.·.. Disboro' ------------------· Mount Rose ..·.........··.. StoJiyllilL ·.··..·.·....... Mount Rose---------------· Stony Hill.. ··..·····. -----· Newtown ······· -----------MonntHoily .·..·.·····..... Newtown ······ ---- .··· ----. Mount Holly ..........·..·.· 1fillowGrove .····..·····.·· MountHolly................ PineHilL.................

26.15 18.00 10.93 13.14 20.09 25.42 13.66 18.51 19.39 12.36

--stony Hill _______ ---------Newt.olnl--- -- ······. - -- . -llountHoily -------------·

40 07 09.59 40 15 00.50 40 00 06.12

75 34 33.06 74 54 54.37 74 46 59.70

30034.9 17590.5
21153.1 32333.9 40912.6 21990.8 29784.1 31209.1 19892.3
~-0

32845.3
19-236.5
23132.4 35359.4 44740.8 23998.5 32571.0

.t::;
0 ~ .,_.,;

52 17 50.9 116 47 58.2

=
_.rJ!,.

187 44 22.8 233 30 05.5 157 52 33.6
299 41 34.4 232 33 57.4 217 36 08.5 165 51 49.9 266 12 16.0 299 S-2 35.0 276 57 01.7 211 ~ 43.7

7 46 53.5
53 38 06.0

337 47 2'/ .7
119 53 50.2 52 41 08.8

WillowG:rove ------------·

40 08 28.97 39 47 51.03

75 06 0-2.79
74 59 16.50 75 22 54.41 75 29 05.98

34128.7
21~53.6

Pine Bill.·.·.. ____ ·.· __ · __
Yard ····.· ·---~------ ···.·
Bethel ······ -·----··----·

37 44 '01.1 345 47-28.9
86 35 2().6 120 07 44.2 97 16 07.7 31 59 42.1'

39375.9

31318.7 43060.3

17.80 24.47
24~17

39

5s

21.75

.

51215.8
38898.4
42882.8 16670.5

56008.1 42538.1
46895.3 1qi.4

31.82

39 50 4:J.14

Pine Hill..·...··.···.··.··.
,Yard ··.·······.···········

26.65
10.36

United States Coast Sunx:y.-Grographical Positions.
Name of station.

Section IL-Primary Statiom.
To stationBack azimuth.
0
I

Sketch B, No. 3.
Distance· Distance. Distance. .Metres. 20435.9 28585.5 28729.6 36300.7 22103.8 34084.4 34826.9 30168.4 19189.3 28455.2 24143.4 20826.9 24894.5 13044.9
169-~.9

I

Latitude.

.

0

, ,,

I
I

Longitude.
0
I

I

.Azimuth.
0

,,

,

I

I

l.ippencott ·····.··········

39 43 17.44

75 18 30.36

132 19 20.0 167 20 21.4 252 49 10.9 165 06 10.7 195 10 47.2 268 05 37.3 305 29 29.8 272 06 14.9 185 20 39.4 242 09 19.4 283 57 01.2 217 25 20.0 135 2'.l 08.3 163 18 14.0 76 15 48.5 148 57 55.7 189 49 39.9 124 47 10.0 59 4-0 26.6

"

,,

Bethel -... --.......................... - ........ Yard .····.·····.·········. Pine Ifill ··················· Bethel ··············.····. Lippencott ····.······.····· Lippencott ·····..·········. Burden ·····.····.········. Burden ···················· Meetinghouse Hill·...·....·· Meetinghouse Hill..·.··..... Buck ·····.···············. Burden ···············.···. Buck ·················.···. Burden ···············.···. Deakyne····:· ············· Deakyne ······.·····.·····. Pine Mount ····.·.···.····. Pine Mount .················ Deep Water ················

312 12 33.3 347 17 32.2 73 01 29.0 345 02 00.0 15 13 22.2 88 20 51.3 125 42 07.0 92 19 38.6 5 21 27.2 62 20 33.5 104 07 26.3 37 30 56.8 315 14 22.7 343 16 34.2 256 08 32.5 328 52 32.3 9 51 31.5 304 39 37.8 239 31 03.9

Yam. 2'2348.l 31260.3 31417.8
39697.4 24172.l 37273.7 38085.6 32991.3 20984.9 31117.8 26402.5 22775.7 270-23.9 14265.5 18506.4 25921.8 27011.9 22706.8 27030.7

Jlliles. 12.70 17.76 17.85

Burden ··················· Meetingholll!e HHI ········· Buck-····· ·······.······· Principio ···········.······ Deakyne ··················

39 31 45.74 39 42 43.12 39 32 23.56 39 35 33.46 39 22 49.69 39 25 00.57 39 11 51.33 39 18 37.02

75 22 33.40 75 42 20.85 75 43 35.89 75 59 57.25 75 31 23.39 75 19 56.46 75 22 52.73 75 08 03.49

22.55 13.74 21.18 21.64

18.74

li.92
17.68 :i5.oo 12.94 15.47

· e Yount .·.·..·········
Deep Water ··············· Joscelyne ·················

8.11 10.51
14.73 15.M 12.90 15.:>Ai

23703.8 24700.7 20763.9 24717 .9

Name oftr'.ation. LONG ISLA!U> SOUND.
Principal &ricJi.

I

Latitude.

I

Longitude.

I

Azimuth.

To station-

/ Back azimuth. / Distance.

Distance.

Distance.

0

I

s Head·"·-; ......... unt Carmel. ··········.·

40 58 13.42 41 25 49.46 41 22 39.51 41 21 16.62 41 04 36.59 41 23 51.55 41 03 52.01

"

0

I

72 43 20.97 72 53 05.34 72 43 34.61 72 30 49.11 72 21 19.22 72 19 19.01 71 53 57.65 71 56 20.11 71 ~ 49.74
~

"

0

I

,,
Ruland's Hill .·····.·····.·· Tashna Hill. ··········.··.· Tashua Hill .......···..···.. Ruland's Hill ...··· - ··.·· -- · Tashua Hill .....··.....··.. Friar's Head .··············

0

I

It

61 28 37.2 126 24 19.4 57 57 23.6 10 27 14.7 73 46 26.3 359 35 35.6

241 16 38.8 306 03 43.0 2.-n' 43 07. 6 190 21 37.4 253 25 54.0 179 35 44.6 202 15 48.2 ·Z'/7 08 02.3 248 56 01.6 336 39 53.4 184 28 52.4 253 20 23.1 316 06 20.4 Z'/1 54 19.1 175 41 43.3 257 41 12.1 244 53 47.7 316 51 05.4 257 32 40.3 155 38 13.1

Metres. 29'245.5 54376.0
3558'2.2

Yards. 31982.0 59463.9
38911.6 72372.0 49482.6 49118.2 50441.2 19608.9 36154.5 36724.l

Mila. 18.i7 33.79

·

22.11
41.12 28.12 27.91 28.66 11.14 20.54 20.87 22.21 10.40 31.83 23.83
27.36 20.35

66179.6 45248.7 44915.5 46125.3 17931.1 33061.0 33581.8 35736.1 16731.5 51226.6 38344.2 44039.9 32751.1 290'29.6 43293.0 14089.7 38079.9

sugarloaf ·················
illiams ·.··.···········.. Wi

2"2 24 03.1 . Friar's Head · · · .. · . · ······· 97 16 28.2 Sugarloaf · · . · · · · ··········. 69 IO 29.1 156 46 08.9

Shelter Island ····.··...·.·

Friar's Head .···········.··
Williams .·····.··.·········

N"Jekerson · · · · · · · · · ·····..
Montault ············.····.
Lantern Bill ·.··..·..·.·..

4 30 11.& Shelter Island · · · · · · · ······· 73 27 59.2 Williams .·················· 136 23 03.1 92 12 17.6 355 40 09.3 77 56 2-i.5 65 06 09.5 137 05 04.2 77 39 13.l 335 30 45.9

39079.9 18295.5
56019.9 41932.1 48160.7 35815.9 31745.9 47343.9 15408.I 41643.0

I
41 27 35.67 4110 29.75 412913.76

Nickerson .·.·····..··.···.. Shelter Island ·············· .'Montauk ··················· Nickerson .················· Montauk .··.··············· Lantern Hill . . . · · . · . .·.·... Lantern Hill ..·.··..··..·..· Beacon Hill--~· ···· """~ ···.

Beaeon Hill (Block lsllllld) ··

plin ·················

26.00
8.75 23.66

18.04

71 46 26.97

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpliical Posi.tiom.
Name ofstation. Latitude.
0

Section IL-Rhode Islll'fld and Oom1ecticut. Skctcli B, No. 2.
To stationBack azimuth.
0

Longitude.
0

Aiimuth.
0

I

Distance.
Metres. 26995.2 37375.3

Distance. Distance.
Yanls, 29521.1 40872.5

,

1

IcSparran Hill. - - - - --- · --.

41 29 44.72 41 27 02.41

"

,

71 27 03.80 7111 17.31

"

,

88 04 46.8 17 38 21.4 102 55 53.0 47 32 41.0

"

,

Champlin ·················· Beacon Hill ················ McSparran Hill ............. BellCOll Hill ···············.

267 51 56.2 197 33 00.5 282 45 26.1 227 16 55,4

"

.Miks.

16.77
23.
13.99

EastRock ················

22522.1 45249,0

24629.5 49482,9

28. 12

RHODE ISLAND AND CONNECTICUT.
Point Jrulith to StoflingtOfl.

sHill ···············..
B roaclhill-. -- ---- ---- ---·.·

41 27 46.33 41 24 37.69 41 18 47.64 41 24 23.02 41 21 52.55 41 21 37 .63
41 'a
~-m.

71 31 54.79 71 33 21.94 71 50 56.44
I

8 05 16 97 40 19 115 07 25 2"22 46 57 8 42 23 304 46 55 93 46 08 190 36 36 189 23 16 129 38 20 24 08 18 80 35 19
1ffi 1'3 00
~~~'d

Beacon Hill ................ Champlin ·········.··..··.. Champlin ···.··.··········· McSparran Hill .··.···.····. Montauk .·..··············. Beacon Hill ·········.····.· Broad Hill ................. McSparran Hill ..··.·...··.. Austin ..................... Broad Hill ···············.. Beacon Hill .······.·····.·· 'Yatch Rill ..·..·..···..···.
11.roail Il.1\1. ·················
·-A_ui;Uu - ···· .;. ··· ······- ······

188 03 07 277 30 42 294 58 45 42 51 07 188 40 24 124 57 19 273 42 51 IO 37 29

32296,0 20413.7 20111,8 12912,0 27948.7 26865,1 6935,1 10096.7 4704,8 7989.6 22570.2 31654.8
~-'3

35317,9 223-23.8 21993.7 14120,2 30564.4 29378.9 7584.0 11041.5 5145.0 8737.2 24682.1 34616.7
a745.S
'l~c~.~

20.07 12.69
12~50

8.02 17.37 16.69 4.31 6.27 2.92 4.96 14.03 19.67
~.1.

wRtch Hill.....···...·.·..
Austin ···········.···.····
oint Judith ·············.·
p oint Judith Light ······.·.
"WeOO.- ------ ············

71 28 23.96 71 28 57.00 71 28 33.74
"71~M.~

9 23 38 309 35 24
204 03 57
~203:.>.
~91~~

~~-~

~~\

Name ofstiJt;Jvn.
Kii>gst;on Spire ·············
eeting-home Hill ········.

I

Latitude.
0

I

, ,,

-

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0

,,

, ,,

l

I

To station-

&ck azimuth. { Distance.
0

Dist&ace.
Yards. 23212.4 9015.3 34500.1 6019.7 4920.4 3582.7 37455.7 7134.1 45596.0
~-5

I

Distauee.
.Mi.ks~

, ,,

.Metres.

41 28 46.66 41 26 43.09 41 28 16.86 41 28 00.00 412912.23 41 30 14.74 41 26 02.78 41 28 03.00 41 29 27.39 41 2{20.87 41 32 39.59

71 31 12.66 712812.99

92 20 30 21 21 14 17 55 60 110 46 50 50 00 16. 145 50 37 18 52 41

Champlin ·················· Broad Hill .·... ---· .....·..

27"2 IO 24 201 19 48 197 5111>
290 44 23

21226.3 8'.245.7 31560.9 5504.6 4499.4 3276.1 34250.9 6523.7 41721.9 18888.1 4937.4 22156.7

13.19' 5.12 19.60 3.42 2.80 2.04 21.28· 4.05
25.92. 11.74

Beacon Hill ········.·······
Tiff's Hill. - ..........·.... Meeting-house Hill ··.······· McSparran Hill .....·...···.

st.on Neck · · · · · ········.
ower Bill Spire ······.··..
ewport Spire ············.

71 25 44.49
71 27 14.28 71 18 28.71 71 30 35.10 71 30 19.14 71 38 00.00 71 38 11.68 71 43 39.Q2

229 58 38 325 49 44

Beacon Bill ................
Tifi"s Hill .··.······..·.··· -

86 09 06
34 00 06 82 00 36 21 59 50 85 13 05 213 29 18 246 59 08 314 21 27

198 47 27 266 05 59 213 49 05 261 51 42
j7 201 2650234

. -.

~·

lJeaoon Hill ·...··.····.·.·.
Titr's Hill ......·.·.........

~---· ······--··---Walelield, (Bag-std) ·.···· -

Tllr'1 Hill·········· -- ····. Champlin · · · · · ······.·····. McSpa.rran Hill .···.······.. :Meeting-house Hill ....·····. Broad Hill .··..···.··.····. l\feeting-ho1111e Hill ....···... Champlin ·················· Broad Hill ················. Watch Hill ......·.·....·... Wilcox ···················.

5399.4
~-9

3_07 13.77 5.10 1.98 5.63 8.61 7.14 6.95
14.~

.~.

33 31 27 67 00 32 134 24 32 100 18 01 267 51 34 143 03 58 149 30 06 245 01 28 195 17 09

Shannoek ··.············ ·:.

. 9054.5
13860.0 11496.2 11184.1 23323.3 11215.1

8211.2 3181.2

8979.5 3478.9 9901.7 15156.9 12571.9 12230.6 25605.7 12264.5 23738.7 12604.5

280 11 32

wnbar ···················
WilCO.J: ......
J amee
····-···~·····

87 57 02 3"23 00 46 329 24 30 65 06 17 15 19 53 56 36 36

Beacon Hill .···············

···~·· ·············· \

6.96 13.49 7.16

7139 32.08

ChampliJJ ········ .:··········

236 32 01

21707.5 11526.0

Unite&.

tJtes

Coast Survey.-Geographical Position$.
Latitude.
0

&ction IL-Rhode Is/,and an4 Connecticut·.{ Sketch B, No. 2.

Name of station.

Longit-.ide.
0

, ,,

, ,,

I

A.zllnuth.
0

,,

I

To station-

I

Back azimuth. , Distance. \ Distance. Distanee.
0

, ,,

Green Hill ...··...........
oshua Champlin .······· : ·· Noyes' Point ········ -·· - -- QWillllCOilt-Og---· ··········

41 22 22.41 41 22 14.12 41 19 44.02 4119 57.68 41 21 38.30 41 13 26.84 41 12 41.67 41 22 47.59 41 23 16.45 41 20 50.91

71 35 30.68

358 43 41 80 33 12

Beacon Hill ....···.···.·.· -1 'Vilcox ···· ·---···-·······Beacon Hill ···.···.···.···. Green Hill ......·········.· Beacon Hill .·...... ---- ·... Wtlcox ---- -- ·. ---- ·····.·· Noyes' Point ..··· ---------"'Hcox - - ·· _. _. -- ····· _--- · Wilcox····----···---·----Qu11Uacontog __ .· ____ -- · _-- · Montauk. --- ··.·······.···· Watch Hill. -- . - . _... --- _.. _ Beacon Hill ..·. ·--· ····.· -'Vatch Hill ..... ··-- ........ Watch HUI.. ······ _···· _.·· LanternHill .··· -··- ········ Watch Hill .···.···.·.··...· Wtlcox ------ ······ ----·· -Wilcox·----- .............. Pele~ Tilf. ___ ···· _.······ _. 'Eell's Rill, (.2) .····· ------ ·· l.'e\e~'tlli ..................

178 43 55 260 27 50

.Metres. 21900.2 115C6.5 29-585.0 597'0.7 21916.0 3514.6 3793.5 3204.9 2441.9 3139.0 32841.3 25381.0
4810.4 27065.0

Yards. 23949.4 12583.2

.Mile$.

13.61 7 15 14. 03 3.52 13. 62 2.18 2. 36 1 99 1-52 1.95
20.41 15.77

71 39 3-1.47
71 44 58.60

344 08 44
267 23 10

164 11 39
81 25 51

24698.3 6201.3 23966.1 38-12.9 4148.5 3504.8 2670.4 3432.7 35914.3 27755.9 526iLO 29597.5 8101.4 12941.1
9901L2

32113 36 2114515 83 37 44 143 13 53 77 17 45 8 29 51 57 25 49 113 02 24 32 14 09 114 45 01 2 18 12 138 42 27 23 44 17 2983829
258 53 32

141 20 05 31 46 07 263 35 57 323 12 58 257 16 37 188 29 38 237 12 49 29"2 51 21 212 12 56 294 33 24 18'2 18 03 318 38 44 203 42 33 118 41 34 78 55 46 338 05 35
~2 3129 1~ <\I!> <\q

71 42 16.47 71 41 56.53 71 34 12.19 713319.66 71 50 43.61 714819.M 71 47 01.97
11. <\S ~-m'

~~.·

Sand Hill ..··..·..·. -·-·-Block Island Light-house ·.·· Bushy Hill -- .. - - - - - - -- ·.·.

2.99 16.82 4.00 7.35 5.63 4-62
2.

Bell's Hill, (2) ···· - -- ····· _
Peleg Tift' ·················

7408.2 11833.6 9056.6 7431.0 4806.8 4838.4
fil.66.7
7~.'l

8126.4 5256.6 5291.1
3463_()
~-\

C!ranberryliill------·-·-·-·
~nll.l)~t1lil\

168 06 26

3.9
1ll.

············

.4l. ~~-'.\';>,,

@. ~

<.1
'.?.!.\

'M.(;

~

Name of station.

Latitude.
0
I

,,

l

Longitude.
0
I

.Azimuth.
0

,,

, ,,

I

To station.

I

.Baek azimuth. Distfillce, Distance· Distance·
0

f

, ,,
03 52

Big Hill ···················
Wells' Hill ···············. Diamond Hill, (tree) ········ Quacatog ················.

41 23 3!.06 41 25 &L36 41 25 44.26 412313.01 41 25 22.90 41 25 57.30 41 26 29.36 41 29 29.95 41 22 21.14 41 15 19.18

71 45 47.69 71 44 55.13 71 46 07.92 71 56 37.87 71 53 45.35 71 50
51)

20 04 41 86 12 22 14 45 18 44 17 32 353 47 52 33 52 06 182 54 32 275 24 41 138 46 02 45 00 17 356 17 49 323 06 18 73 09 03 202242 63 11 10 23 54 53

Cranberry Hill ·············· Peleg Tiff ··················
Big Hill..····..·.·..····.·. Peleg TJff ·.······.······.·· Big Hill ..····..············ Peleg Tiff ..··.······.······

~

266 10 42

.Mam. 60'29.5 3537.4
4794.2 6803.0 4349.9 5490.3 8113.2 8'267.8 5447.2 5665.7 5864.3 6202.8 7002.2 7297.8 7806.9 8335.5 8255.0 5334.2

Yards.

.Miles.

5500.1 3868.4 5242.8 7469.6 4756.9 6004.0
88n.4

3.13 2.20

194 44 43 2'24 15 17 173 48 05 213 50 39 2 54 44 95 28 36 318 44 20 2-24 58 23 176 17 57 143 08 06 253 05 50 200 21 30 243 07 51 203 53 17 142 56 51 81 13 15 13 32 43 157 29 03 17 23 55 247 10 48

2.98 4.33
2.70 3.41 5.04 5.14 3.39 3.52 3.64 3.85 4.39 4.53 4.85 5.18 5.13 3.32

.

LsntemHill ....··.·. ·.···.·· Bell's Hill, (2) .·············

9041.4 5956.9 6195.8 603.0 6783.2 7723.0 7980.7 8537.4 9115.5 9027.4 5833.3 25552.9 25098.5

Grant's Hill ··············. North St.ouingt.on ·.········.

Lantern Hill ................ Quacat.og ..·············.··
Eell's Bill, (2) ...··········· Peleg Tiff ·.···.·...·····.·. Grant's Hill ................ Eell'e Hill, (2) ..............

92

Jesse Main ················
Chaplll8n'B Hill ··········· · Road Meeting-house ········ Yount Prospect, (Fisher's Island.)

71 48 54.25 71 51 19.83 71 54 30.49 72 00 15.2'2 71 5111.49

Lantern HiiL .··············· Grant's Hill ................ WatchHUL ..·······.······ Eell's Hill, (2) ..............
Lantern llilL .··.·....·.·..· }font.auk ...................

m 54 30 261 10 45
193 30 07 337 24 55 197 23 45 67 16 10

23366.5 22951.0
1171.0 13723.0

14.5"2 14.26
0.73 8.53

Wat.eh Hill Light ·········. .41 18 11.42

Watch Hill..···.···.·.···.. Mount Prospect ·············

l5007.l

1280.6

Umtd. States Coast Suroey.-Geograpkical P~o'/18.
~s1

-

-

,

Section Il.-'-Long 1slaml .&u'flil.
To stationBack azimuth.
0
I

Sketcli.B, No. 2.

Name of station.

Lit.tituda.
0
I

Longitude.
Q
I

.Amnuth.
0
I

I

~ee. \ Distance.
Metres.
l~.l

Distance.

FortHill-----···--·· .. ····

4100 45-42 41 l6 45.75 41 17 03.95 4119 42.36 41 17 ir/.84 4119 38.73 41 19 36.73 41 18 57.08

"

72 00 20.00
71 57 27.32 71 55 43.20 71 54 56.18 71 54 31.49 71 54 00.17 71 54 00_17 71 59 ()'4.51

"

II

,,

285 26 42 359 21 59

Wateh Hill ......... ··---· .. Mount Prospect .............

105 3'2 54 179 2'2 0-;,? 331 27 54 67 34 23 242 56 14 316 40 29
284 27 20

10062.7 8413.3 9838.9 7108.0 9387.0 7776.0 6484.0 5446.1 3884.0 61.7 4534.0 7160.0 1684.0 4617.0

Yanls. 14870.5 11044.3
9200.5 10759.5 7773.1 10-265.3 8503.6 7090.7 5955.7 4247.4

M"iks. ,8.45 6.25
5.23 6~11

Cboeomount ...............
East End ................. W amplll!liet l'oint .......... Wic.opillset ................ Stonillgton,· ( newlight-bouse) Stonington, (old light-house). Mystic Llght-honse ········· LONG ISL!l\'D SOill\J).
Thames Rir61'.

151 29 48 247 30 05 62 59 13 136 43 31 104 30 54 3'2 50 59 246 41 33 171 29 52 0 00 289 30 06 '12 25 44 53 20 ()-;,?

Fort Hill----· ...... ····"· ·· Watch Hill.- .......... : .... Mount Prospect .············ Fort Hill ................... Fort Hill................... Chocomount ............... Watch Hill ................. W ampasset Point ··.·····.·· Stonington Old Light .····.·· Watch Hill ................. Ohocomount ............... Groton Long Point .......... Chocowoimt · ., .......... ,.

4.42 5.83 4.83 4.22 3.39 2.41 0_04

212 49 05 66 43 55 351 29 36 180 00 109 3'2 07
222 23 27

.

67.5
4958.3 7829.9 1841.6 5049.0

2.82 4.(5
L05

a31 l9 26

233 19 24 151 20 29

2.!R

Avery's Point ..............

41 18 55.29

72 03 31.90
~

325 30 39

232 42 0-2
Groton Loug ~omt .........

Mount Prospect .············ Fort Hill ...................
l4ountl'l'()speet ··· , ·· ,., ···· ~"1e~Y.~\l\\., ····· ,, .... ·~··

145 32 49 52 44 09
\&\~~
~$~

8086.0 5608.0
57~.o

8843.6 6162.7
6261.8

5.0.1
S.49

u is ~..\9

00 00.l>S

'.\ 24. 44.
wu~1 ~

~"o

M7\\.·.\

s. a..i

NJU11e of st.atlon.

Latitude.
0 , ,,
0 I ,,

.Azimuth.

To stationMount Prospect ..···· ,-····· Chocomount.. _······ ·--· -··-

/ Back azimuth.

North

Hammock----·-···--

I

0

'

u

4117 14-37 41 16 21-04
4115 01.41

7~

00 60.58

346 57 00 ~ 3340
328 15 ~1 261 27 41

I

0

_ 1_D_istau~=ce~.. r-D-is~ta.n~ce~·~ 1 -D_istan __ ce-"
Mares. 3647.0 4811-0
2243.3 5143.0 Yards. 3982.2 5261.2
2455.~

I

''

166 57 23 100 35 54 148 15 54 81 30 05
77 04 12 ~ 09 30

Miles. 2.Z'/ 2.99
1.40 3.20 1.52 1.69

North Hill -··· ····· - -· · · · .

72 01 05.91

I
Race Point---· ······ -·····
Goshen Point---·..........

Mount Prospect ..··········· Chocomount.. - ······ - -.·····
Mount Prospect ..····· _····· North Hill ... -·........···.·

5624.2
2678.2
~-1

73 01 57.741 257 03 04 206 08 56

2449.0 2737.0
9907.2 10022.9

41 17 55_33 41 14 34.46 4118 57-66

72 06 27.27 72 O'J 30_35 72 05 04.07 72 03 00.87 72 06 02.98 72 06 05.40 72 08 42.54 72 05 29.38

I

299 03 18

238 24 21

Race Rock Spindle-........
New London Light-house ····

138 21 26
249 18 27

Mount Prospect- . - ········· · I 119 07 23 {)8 28 23 Fort Hill--··-·· ...··· Goshen Point -·············· 318 18 50 66 19 56 Mount Prospect-_._ ·········

··-···1

10834.2 10960.7 9071-2 3756.4

6.16 6.23

8295.0 3435.0
9519.0 12975.6
19083_0 10136.9

5.15
2-14

V-megar Hill- -· - - --- ·· - · - ··

I

315 03 43 10 30 17
348 20 33
246 32 58

Mount Prospect_ .··········· 1 135 06 54 Gull Island ················· 1 190 29 10 Yount Prospect ·······.····· 168 22 22 Lantern Hill ..·..·.. _·..···· 1 66 37 23 Mount Prospect._..... . . · · · . Lantern Hill...... . . · · · · . . · · Mount Prospect __ · · · · · · · · · · · V-megar Hill- . . . . · · . · · . · · · · · l!ount Prospect. · · · · · · · · · · · · Quaker.·.·· _..... . · · ·· · · · · · Manetnck o····o ···· ··H · ··· Qnalter._······ _... ··· ··· · ··.··
l55 51 51 70 53 41
149 20 44 40 48 28

10409.7 14100.0
20868.6 11085.4

5.92 8.06

41 25 25.09
41 25 03-28

11.86 6.30
12.27 8.90

Browning·-···............
Quaker...................
Manetnck ·· ···· ····· ·· ····
New London, (Presbyterian church spire.)

335 48 01 250 47 15
329 16 53 220 46 26

19748.6 14323.6
15957-6 6560.8

21596.5 15663.9
17451.0 7174.7
17583.4 5032.5

41 22 44.07
41 21 13.26

9.9-2 4.08

312 44 24
232 29 2"2

13"2 49 59 52 31 06
268 46 51 lW2. 48 U

16078.9 4601.9
4490.4 2833.7.

9.99 2.86
2.79 1.76

41 2116.31

88 48 59 162 48 48

4910.6 -3096.9

~
.......

United ~tates Coast Survey.-Geographical Pos-iti<ms.
Name of station.

Becti.on .IL-Long Island Bound. SlretCh B, No. 2.
To station-

.·.··~
-~·

\
-1

Latitude.
0
I

Longitude.
0
I
II

Azimuth.
0
I

I

Back azimuth.
q ' "

IDistance.

~ee,

Distance
.M"iks 3.03 2. 55

II

II

Fort Trumbull, (tlag-staff.) .·

41 20 35_98 41 21 15-72 41 31 02_19 41 Z'f 12-25 41 28 21.60 41 12 04.07

72 05 18-50 72 04 26.81 72 03 44-67 72 07 20-94 72 05 34_65 72 06 45,57

103 33 51

l&i 34 39
89 17 29 139 57 12
354 24 48 301 40 05

Manetuek ______ ---· -.-· ---Quaker.. - ·· .--····· .... ---· Manetuck- ____ · _·· _-- ·- ___ . Quaker.. -·_ ··.· ., ·. -·_.---· Vmegar Hill ____ -··--------Lantern Hill. ___ ,,_,._, -- _·. V-megar Hill. - - _-· --- - - -- - - . Tory Hill_ - ·- ·· ,- .,. ···- ---· Quaker - _- - _____ · _______ · __ Vmegar Hill. ___ .· _,,.,, ·· _. Mount Prospect.---,---·-·-Manetuck --- - ,., ,,, , ,. , ·· -.

283 36 36 344 34 08

I

Metres.

4880.1 4098.8 5944.1 3560.5 10448.4 12121.0 6&S2_8 8687.9 10436.5 6510.4 1090.2 1715.8

Yan.ls. 5336.7 448'4.3

Groton Monument---····--· Tory BilL------·-· ----·--Pole's Bill.· ---····-····--· Mohican Spire · -· ·· -··· - -- Gull Island·-----··., ·· --·Lowg Island &and.

~9 14 40 319 56 07
174 25 17 121 44 59 118 43 37 35 17 20 183 55 13 146 46 04 56 31 44

6500.4 3893.7 11426-1 13225.2 7526.8 9500_8 11413.1 7119.6 119'2.2 1876-4

3.69 2.21 6.49 7_ 53

298 40 45 21f> 14 57
3"~

4. 28 5.40
6.49 4. 05 0. 68 L 07

t:;

3 55 33 44 2-2

~

236 27 27 170 53 05

3&0 51 48

Sachem's Head.-. - -· - ·- --·. llammonasset, ···· _········ Mattituek Hills. -- ··· - · - ····

4116 56.20

I
I

72 43 10,40

244 56 49 176 52 04 190 07 53 131 55 53 74 58 44 158 00 04
.1.'56 ~\ 1.Q

Williams- ·· ·--·-·,.·· ······ Sugarloaf.·..·.· _··· _. __ ..·.

65 04 59 356 51 48 lO 08 53 311 48 27
~ 5~42

190]8.8 10297.3

20798.4 11260.8 13125.8

IL 6.40
7.46 13. 09 8_ 30 20. 89
8.&:.
~-~ \.l\

41 14 53.581 ~ 32 19.95

IWilliams,.·· --·._.,,.,, ·· _. Sugarloaf.. --·. -- · ---· ·· ,. - j Friar's Head .· _-·-.·- ___ ···.
\Sachem's Head.. ·--·--···-··

' " " 00,03
Uo-rW~s 'Fo'iD.\ ......... ··-·

~"' '"''·"'
7'.! 2.6 33.\Yt

~ 21"'15
13355.0

1200-~.7

337 54 08

230453 14604.6 33618.9 \ 3676'.6
1'39W.6
~1.~.9.

U M aa.80

w

0'2 33

"Ms.tti.tuc\t. Bills ............. 22.9 57 33 ~~"··-·-·"··········· ~1,7~

15207 .8
~1.7 -~

Name of station. Cornfield Point. .····· -----·
rown'sHilL ···· ------ ···· tt's Point..····.·····

I

Latitude.
0

,, '

t

Longitude.
0

,

I

Azimuth.
0

II

, ,,

41 15 39.86 41 09 08.91 4116 56.48 41 06 03.21 4117 07.36 41 17 38.49 41 18 16.60 41 11 03.51 4112 20.65 41 12 04.04 4118 09.85

72 22 53.76 72 17 15.87 72 15 22.96 72 06 01.64 72 11 59.12 72 08 51.341 72 09 33.791 72 10 33.65
;

83 52 12 14 26 57 59 03 30 116 51 56 77 20.46 10 20 39 205 10 39 283 24 12 337 50 34 26 35 19 181 46 21 77 37 24 57 44 05 341 10 07 69 2"2 35 325 34 32 359 36 18 69 12 37 354 42 2i 70 38 26 311 28 48 283 28 51

r. IHammonasset.···· ---- ·····. I

To station-

Back azimuth.
0

Distance.
Metres.

rustance. f Distance. Yards. 14498.6 2"2434.7 16582.5 25801.3 11661.4 16033.5 20728.1 19000.9 24185.9 18044.6 7248.2 4891.5 4373.2 132i6.4 10957.0 12336.5 12733.0 7321.0 12-224.4 6153.6 18609.7 24543.l

,

Horton's Point ·········.·.·.

263 46 00 194 24 33 238 57 23 296 42 00 257 15 48 190 19 25

"

13258.0 20515.1 15163.6 23593.6 10754.8 14661.4 18954.5 17374.7 2"2116.5 16500.6 6628.0 4473.0 3999.0 12140.4 10019.5 11226.1 11642.6 6694.6 11178.4 5627.1 17017.4 22443.1

Miles. 8.24 12.75
11.42 14.66 6.68 9.11 7.31 10.80 13.74 10.26 4.12 2.78 2.49 7.54 6.23 6.97 7.23 4.15 6.95 3.50 6.66 13.95

Horton's Point .········· --- · Hammonasset.··.··········. Cornfield Point.·········.·.. Brown's Hill...····..·.··... Mount Prospect ·.·····.···.. Montauk .····.······· ." ····. Gardiner's Island .··········· Brown's Hill ..·····.....·.·. Manetnck ..······.·.·.···.· Black Point..····.··.·····.· Black Point..·.·.··········· Gull Island .··········.··... Brown's Hill ...·.··..··.· _.. Gardiner's Island._ .·.·····.· Gardiner's Island··.·..··.·.. Plwn Island ······.····.···. Gardiner's Island. ··········· Plwnlsland·.········· -----· Gull Island ················· lfonnt Prospect ·············

Gardiner'slsland .········. ·.
Black Point.····· --·· ······

25 14 26 103 32 08 157 54 29 206 31 50 1 46 2i 257 35 20. 237 42 29 16111 44 249 18 11 145 37 31 179 36 20 249 09 43 174 42 57 250 35 56 131 34 50 103 39 10

tree Island .·······

----!

.

~- '

lfilktonePoint ···········. Plum Isbmd ····· -- ···· ----

Gull Island Light-house.····· Great Gull Island. (2) .······

72 06 05.12 72 06 45.84 72 15 52.82

F our-mile River ··········· :

Un,itea States Coast Survey.-Geographicai PositUms. Section JI.-Long Islana Sound. Sketch B, No. 2.
___ N_!llll_e_o_r_s_ta_ti_on_.___\_ _ La_ti_·tu_d_e._ :--Lo-ngi-·tu_d_e_.-i---A-zi_m_uth_.-;'----T_o_s_w.ti_·_o_n_ _ _ _ / Back azimuth.
1
011'
(\/fl

Distance. Diatance. Distance.
Metres.

1
0111

j

Plum Island Light-house.....
Ccmnecticut Rir:er.
Mali.cab..................... Essex .········.····· ·--··· Pettipang Spke........ .. . . Ely.......................
Essex Spire................

41 10 23.29

72 12 2-2.31

71 39 36 161 2'2 46

Brown's Hill. .. .. . . . .. · . .. ..

Foor-mile River. . . . . .. . . . .. .

251 26 23 3H 10 38

7217.0 15203.0

Yards. 7892.3 16625.5

M~.

4.48 9.45

41 20 32.83 41 20 31.112 41 21 03.60 41 21 49.15 41 21 09.38 41 18 55.58 41 18 47 .40 41 16 55.89
"- 17
~-~

72 19 48.68 72 23 28.57 72 24 32.87 72 22 06.68 72 23 15.45 72 21 36.44 72 18 36.32 72 17 41..51
'1'2 ~ .\B.M

1S6 24 51 95 05 19 2-23 07 52 269 21 15 234 35 01 278 09 08 306 16 00 38 18 28 283 10 51 14 27 59 l99 16 15 138 29 00 93 27 36 173 57 59
169 58 42 124 03 13

Nickerson.... .. . · . . . · . .. · ·· Williams ......... _.. . . . . . . . · Nickerson . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . . . . Mali.cab ..... _... . . .. . . . . . .. . Nickerson . . . . . . . · . · .. . . · .. · Malicah.... .... ·... .... .... Mali.cab.................... Essex...................... Malicab.... ...... .... ...... Essex...................... Nickerson.................. Essex...................... FerryHill.................. Nickerson........ . .. .. . .. . .
~1ckerson....

6 25 11 27 4 58 03 43 10 37 89 23 41
54 38 29 98 12 16

6168.3 15410.9 8478.9 5112.3 8945.4 6674.0
3979.0 3071.3

6745.5 16852.9 9-272.3 5590.7 978-2.4 7298.5 4351.3 3358.7

3.83 9.58 5.27 3.18

5.56 4.15
2.47 1.91

126 17 31 218 17 34 103 13 08 194 27 50 19 17 46 318 27 46 273 25 37 353 57 31 349 57 38 304 00 38

4936.8 12'21.9 9672.4 3932.8 4196.7 9434.2

5398.7
1336.2

3.o7
0.76
6.01 2.44

Ferry Hill........... . .. .. . Bog-hole Hill..............
Lay'ii Hill.................
~u.1li\l. ...... ~ ···· ....

10577 .5 4300.8 4589.4 10317.0

2.61 5.86 8.09 4.10 8.24
\
4.73

...... ........ Ferryllill..................

13020.3 14238.6 6596.0 \ . 72"23.2

13269.2
.'16Yl~1

14512.8
~-0

NtJDUJ of atation.

I

Latitude.

I

Longitude.

I

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To st.ation-

[Back ~uth. Distan~- l Distance
Q
I I/

Distance.
Miles. 4.55 11.21

0

'

II

0

I

"

Metres.

Lyme Spire..···· ·-··-----Saybrook Spire..·.... -----Saybrook Old Light-house... Saybrook New Light-house...

41 18 44.09 41 17 09.95 4116 15.24 41 16 14 98

72 19 35.53 72 22 13.56 72 20 16.40 72 20 16.42

39 04 50 349 36 01
334 55 44 73 27 24

Cornfield Point..···· ----.... Brown's Hill. .·... ---------· Brown's Hill ...... ---------Hammonasset ........ ---- ----

219 02 39 169 37 33 i54 59 00
253 20 44

7319.6 18039.0 16378.9 14727.2 5474.0 3822.0 5477.3 3819.0

Yads. 8004.6 19726.9

17911.5 16105.2 5986.2 4179.6 5989.8 4176.4

10.18 9.15 3.40 2.87 3.40 2.37

115 44 01 73 25 01 115 50 01 73 31 55

Bea.con Hill... -- ·. --- ..··· -Cornfield Point.. -------- -- --

295 41 41 253 23 17

Bea.con Hill ........·.·.. ---- 295 46 20 CornfieldPoiBt. ··. ---- ···· ! 253 30 11

North side of Long Island Sound, from Co11Beeticut Rirerto Housatonie Riur.

HpHilL .....·... ·-·- ....

41 20 35.22 41 17 08.13 41 21 44.75 41 17 08.28 4115 21.29

72 37 21.54 72 28 00.43 72 33 37 .62 72 26 40.23 72 28 12.66

326 19 03 50 14 58 55 31 44 116 08 01 351 53 11 28-2 28 47 31S 18 48 62 18 27 81 34 39 161 38 50

Hammonueet, ········ ------

Sachem'sHead..·..··.··.·..
HammollllllSet ------ ---- ----

146 22 22 230 11 07 235 28 53 296 01 50 171 54 02 102 30 38 138 25 00 242 14 43 261 31 56 341 37 ffl

12659.9 10558.0 7328.5 14529.2 12810.8 4011.5 19785.8 8932.l> 5820.0 11548-8.

13844.5 11545.9 8014.2 15888.7 14009.5 4386.9 21637.2 9768.3 6364.6 12629.4

7 .'i!T 6.56

Mmcloek..···.·.·· ···--· ·-··
North JGlliBgworth Spire---·
Pa.chaag, (West Brook spire.)

HighHilL.................

4.55 8.03

Hammon&Bllet... ···· ···· ····
"\V"tllianis...................

7.96
2.49 12.29

Brown'sHill...... ·.·. .····. Hammonasset ····.. ···· .... Hammonasset · · · · · · · . . · · · · · ~--·············· ...._.

5.55
3.62 7.18

Ducklsllmd .··············

tO .co

0.

United States.Coait Survey.-Geograpldcal Posit_irnis~ ··Section·1L·~Lon.g Islan.d·Sound.
Name.of station. Great .·· , · ~ ~ ~ · ~ ·· . Hammock ..
\

Skctcl1.· B, No.
Distance.
Metres.

2>
..

"t-:>:
~·
~:·

Latitude.
0
I

Longitude.
0
I

Azimuth.·
0
I

"To station.:,...
...

.- ....

..

Back aziµmth.
o.
I

Distance. Distalico

.'

41 16 32.86· 41 17·23,97 41· 17" 33,92

"

,,

II

72. 30'·22.86· 72·30 26.60 72 .35'·00,46

66·03 09· 133 48 00 29 38 11 358"32.44

Hammonasset ·.··· : ········. High Hill..·.··.··.····.....
.

.

24601 52 313 43 24

"

Yllrf/s.·
58:J5.8. 3749.6 '6775.2 6975.5 3969.4 566".3.l 5688.4 5129:0 4086.0 6280.7 51i!I0.4
07:.Jl.'1

.

2!)32.7 13485.0 5.336:5. 3428.8

Miles .\

a26L8 14740.8

1. 85. 8 . 39'

Lo11g Hill · , ············ ., . Hol'SePond .·········· , ····

Ffommonasset . : ·· : ·· : · ' ' ". Grunt Hammock .·.·.·······

..

..

..

209 36 56" 178 3.2"46 142:.56 07 92 45 20 14:l 23 44 111!) 12 &3 182 45 44 148 10 25 200 la on 286 40 50 111 3:'1 24 ::145 4!J 15 106 29 02 . 5 22 29 116 rn 09 24 42 40
,!)(j

32'.' 3.· 2:1 3
3. 85 '. 3. 96. 2. 26 3. 22 3.23

' Camp's Hill .······ ··· ~ ···.··· ~
C(llV

3.22 !'i4 21 272 "42 19
323 22 4:J 289 10 34 ·2 45 51 328-09 15 28 1:i 56 106 4:1 20. 2!H.

41 i6 .28.031 72 33 52.96. 4117 42.02 41.16 40.30 41 15 55,51 41 16 08.22· 41 17 27.86 4115 35.12 41 18 47.51

.

I

H11mmonasset . ·'''' '::: ·,,,. Long J:Iill ················· -1 Hammon!lsset ., ··.····.···.. Great Hammock ..······.·.. Hammonasset ·.. ·············. Great Hmumock .··. : ······ : . H mmnonilsset ·.·.····..··.. Horse Pond, ····.·· : ·······. Hnmmo11a.sset ··.·····.····. ·High Hilt. ········..······. Hammouasset .··..··..····. High Hill................... J-Ti11nmonnssct ··.·.··..····. High Hill ................... .ffommonnssct · , ······.····. Higl1 Hill...................

I

6J95".5
6378~6

3G29.8
&i77.6 5201.7 4690.1 37:16.4 &7.J:J.3 520:1.5 88!J8.7 8127.9 8272.4 J0785.!J· G:ltil.5 1:15!11;.7 ·10293.4
J·l:l-12.n

Hill ... - · -·· ·.·..·. - ·.·.
Sph-e ·············.

I

72 32 09.16 72 31 04.04 72 35 47.88 72 ';;/ 54.83 72 39 15.85 72 40 35.08 72 41 12.64

2:9 I
2.32 3:57· 2.2 3 r>.5"3 5.0 5.1 6.7 a.!J 7.2 6.4
~-

C~tou

T.ucka' Island ·············.

-

:n rnr.· rio

01 17

Hogshoa1l Point ············ Griswoltl. ·················. Mulberry Point ·······.· ···.

290·25 21 185 22 07 296 08 35 204 4J. :JO 27G. 17 50. 205·55 ·oa 300·0!) 2!i 1.t:1i:i ll'i OH

8888.'I 9046.4 .IJ7fl5.l '(ifJ5(i.7 12(i8J..8 1"1256.6
JM84.I~

2:1 2:l 2& 57 11

H111111rJ' Hill ···············

Hnmmonn·set ..·.· .".·.····.. · 120 15 17 l"llffh Hiii ....... , ··········· l'ifl 17 41

(i:ll7,7

fillOA,IJ

:1.11:I

8.!l.1

Name of station.

I "'""""'·

Gnves.··.···.···········.
.Bartlett .·····.······..·...

r """' " """· I ·~ I; .;; .. ,; .; ,;.21 I
41 14 51. 71 41 16 42.431 72 35 47.91 41 18 20.19 41 19 34.11 41 16 36.71 41 15 21.41 41 15 13.44 41 15 25.13 41 16 20.9'2 4119 20.Si 72 44 13.81 72 46 11.76
I

.Azimuth.
0

, ,,

167 02 05 105 04 24

IJr~·
I

(

To station-

fBack~uth.
0

I

Distance.
Metru. 5215.2 6778.7 14073.2 3986.1 7503.7 8482.8 10452.9 2981.3 6443.9 12471.1

Distance. IDistanoo.

, ,,

Hiii..· , ............... Hungry Hill..····.·..·.·....

347 01 32 285 01 18 89 49 11 344 26 06 343 07 13 297 01 32 66 33 15 150 20 44 139 07 21 81 21 20 86 30 36 45 19 34 70 14 09 26 36 11 65 51 29 19 28 22 283 59 14 18 01 38 67 04 12 16 35 35 124 16 17 2122359

Yards. 5703.2 7413.0 15390.0 4359.l 7205.8 9276.5 11431.2 3260.3 7046.9 13637.9

Hilu. 3.24 4.21
8.74 2.48 4.66 5.27 6.50 1.85 4.01 7.75 6.07 4.83 5.37 5.42 4.81 5.30 5.66 1.84

72 42 24.451 269 42 32 164 26 36
i

Hammonasset .·············. Sachem's Head. .··.·····..·· Irigh Hill .................. Hungry Hill ········.··.·.·. High Hill.··.···.·· _.······. Sachem's Head.·..·······.·. Sachem's Head.·.·.··.····.· High Hill....··.··.·.....·.. Sachem's Head..·····.·····. Setauket .········.··.·.···. Sachem's Head. ······.···.·. Setauket ..····.·····.··.·.. Sachem's Head. .···········. Setauket ······.··.··.·····.

Madison Spire.·········· - ·.
. MooseHill ··---- ··---· ····

·

Setauk:et ·· - -·· ····· : ··-·-·
Plant .··············.····.
~Neck .········ -----·

I 319 05 21

I

I

163 08 15 117 05 06 246 28 43 330 20 02 261 16 30

00 ..

l
I

72 50 09.531 266 26 00 2-25 16 57 72 48 59.45 \ 250 IO 19 206 34 20
12 48 13.89

l

9771.4 10685.7 7780.61 8308.6 8633.7 8716.8 7741.9 8528.2 9112.2 2954.2 279'2.8 3839.0 1912.5 f>986.7 9441.6 9532.4 8466.0 9325.2 9964.8 3230.6 3054.1 4198.2

Barker____________ -··· ····

I 245 48 09

Hoadley'a l'oint ············ Stony Creek ··············. Page 3···················.

72 43 49.68

l

199 27 01 104 03 25 198 01 12 247 02 59 196 35 04 304 13 11 32 25 30

Plant ..· --- ·.··....····.... Sachem's Head. ···.·········
Sachem's Head. ············· Moose Hill.··········.··.··. Sachem's Head ..········.··· Plant ······················

!·

72 45 00.92 72-47 51.58

I.74
2~39

I

8652.9 6546.9

4.92 3.72

Uniud States Coast Survey.-Geographical Posi.tWn.s.
. Name Qf station.
Latitude.
0 '
II

&ctUm Il.-L011g Island SO'IJ!ll.d.
To stationBack azimuth.
0
I N

E!ketCh B, No. 2.
Distance.
Metres.

Longitude.
0
I II

Azb:iiuth.
0
I /'

Distance. Distance.
Yams. 7350.7 7660.3

North Gui!ford Spire.. · · · · · · Branford8pire....... ·····.
FAikner's Island Light-houe.

41 22 03. 47
4116 18.24
41 12 40.78

72 43 19.08 72 49 46.34 72 38 54.02
73 00 55.2'2

334 03 07 10 28 24

HungryHill.................

Moose Hill..................

154 04 31
190 27 48 64 05 56 148 05 57 65 58 43 129 46 00 281 49 34 25 27 27 251 3811 20-i 21 41

Miles.
4~18

6721.7 7004.9

4.35 5..35 1.28
6.24 13.95

244 02 17 328 05 26
245 54 23

Moose Hill.................. lndianNeek................

8602.8 2065.2
10050.1 2"2455.3
19652.6 25458.3 25448.9 13010.8 14067.0 8013.3

9407.8

2258.4
10990.5 24556.4 21491.5 27840.4
27830.l 14228.2

Soutb.Milford.~-µl::l;!\,, . 41 13 24.01 Jf'v..l_

hr.· t

I

309 37 51
~

Hammonasset . . · · · · · · · · · · · . · Horfon's Point..............
Tashua Hill................. Mount Carmel...... . · · · . . . . Tashua Hill................. South Milford...............

'

101 58 38 205 22 17 71 49 37 2'2 24 03
259 34 49

11.20 15.82
15.81 8.08

West Bock ········ --~·....

41 19 54.03 4116 53.32 4119 35.03 41 18 55.79 41 20. 29.16 4116 45.80

72 57 22.35 72 53 14.89 72 53 57.14
7'2 51 52.06

FortW~ster..............
EastBock···· ______________
Hemmi.Dgway···· --·- ······

134 06 17
348 50 57 97 01 24
27 01 45 112 36 33

Sachem's Head.............. West Rock.................
FortWooster........... ··.. West Rock ..··. ----........ FortWooster............... East Rock ..···· ---·---·.... FortWooster............... East Rock ....·.···· ·------·

89 41 28 314 03 34
168 ~1 25 276 59 08 207.00 50 292 35 10 206 40 33 248 53 17
305 04 44 244 44 17

15383.2 8763.1
5560.2 5257.6

8.74 4.98
3.16

~

5084.4 4807.7
4241.1 3150.5 7452.2 4639.2 10094.7 14613.0
1.808.·3 .\.
.·\\\TI0.9"\

2.99
2.63 1.96 4.63 2.88

4637.9 3445.3 8149.5 5073.2 11039.3 15980.3
lm7 .5
~-0

Great"Roek-------- ---- ----

72 50 i0.98 72 51 27.38

26 42 08 68 55 20
125 08 38 64 50 32

MileRock.................

West Rock ...·.···· __ _..._.... South Milfurd .···· ---· ·····.
"F<>rt.W()<)6\e"'t ······· -·-· ---.¥.-~---~.------."-----·--

\

.~ \.\) ~

2l?,3 44. 05

Name of8"'fion.
Morgan's Point.····..·····.

/

Latitude
0
,f I.I

l
1
I

Longitude. (
0 / ,,

Azimuth.
0
I II

I

To station-

·~~~~~~~~~~

I

Baek azimuth.
0 .'
II

f Distance.
lfetres. 10813.9 ·1412.8

Distance. Distance.
Ya·rds. /

41 14 30.28

72 53 19.22 72 51 33.35 I
72 53

79 08 53 181 19 01 50 11 45 166 28 23 74 12 21 152 28 02

South Milford ······.·.····.. i 259 03 52 Fort Wooster .·.·..··.·..·.. i 1 19 04 !

-

I

11825.7 4825.7 3363.1 2034.5 11127.4 11414.7 7849.7 879'J.4
3824.9 7934.1

M"tles. 6.72

2.74
1.91 1.15 6.31 6.49 4.46 5. 00 2.17 4.51 5.13 2.06 3.89 5.25 2.38 2.45

Dragon Spire .............. .
New Haven Light-house ····.

4117 57.151 41 14 54.01 4115 35.40 41 16 1i.10 41 15 37 .04 41 12 38.82 4113 59.78 41 17 37.87

FortWooster .·.·.··..··.·.. / 230 10 38 Hemmingway ···.········· · / 346 28 11
South Milford .····· - - ·· - - - - · J 254 07 42 West Rock .··..···· -- ·.·· - - i 332 25 45

3075.4 1860.4 10175.4 10438.1 7178.1 8041.0

54.851

Jones ····· -----·---------·
Jeremy North. ············.

72 58 05.541 250 24 34 187 10 19

FortWooster.··..·········. 1 West Rock .·.·.··.·· ; ·.··.. ,

10 27 45
7 IO 47

I

12 55 42.91
72 55 42.68 73 00 17.98 72 58 12.87

71 39 24 161 24 50

Jones . . · · · · ··········.···. 251 37 50 West Rock .······.····.···. i 341 23 44 West Rock ·········..·.···. 343 41 02 Jones .····················· , 269 06 33

. 3497.7 7255.2
82.59.0 3325.0 6259.2

.laremy South.--·- -- --·- ·-----·
Poad Point···· -----·-----·

163 42 08 89 08 07

I

9031.8 3636.2

209 30 11
221 21 21 49 24 35 73 45 08 281 32 08 0 40 0-2 26 05 17 259 20 27

· .·············_; ·····.. , Jones
/ JeremySouth .········ ····-· j

29 31 39 49 24 23

8444.9
3837.5 3940.1
6857.1 3778.3 5451L3 8463.0 2587.0 8325.4

6844.8 9235.0
4196.5 4308.7 7498.7 4131.8 5960.2 9254.8

OJ1!ter J,\iTer Point·· - ·· - ···
Allen - ·---~- ---- ··· __ ····· Prindle------··----------·

Pond Point .···.··.····.···. / 229 23 13 South Milford .·...··.·.··.. · 1 253 43 37

72 58 03.64

FortWooster .·...··.....··. Jones .········.···········.
South Milford ··············· IFortWooster .·.·····.···...

101 35 18 180 40 01 206 04 09 79 24 23 246 10 42 32.5 44 29

4.26
2.3.5

41 16 02.71
41 16 10.90

72 59 12.38 72 54 00.99

3.39 5.26,
1.61 5.17

Fort Hale, or Mosquit.o Fort.

66 11 48 145 4642

l West

JJl'emySouth .·············· Hoek····_ ·· ;·---------

2829.0 9W4.5

'United States Coast
Name of station.

Survey.-Geograph.i~al
Longitude.
0
I II

Positign11.

Section II.-Long Island.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 2.

I i
l
i

I

Latitude.
0

Brewste:r'.s Factory Cupola, (New Haven.) College Spire, (New Haven). Episcopal Chureh, (New Haven.)

I
I

41 18 07.10 4I I8 27.74 41 I8 11.32

'

If

I '

.Azimuth.
0
I II

I

Back azimuth:
0 ' II 228 27 19 307 37 00

I

Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
Metres. 7058.9 5401.8

Yams.
7719.4 5907.2 7118.0 4I84.2 5351.9 5131.0 2500.3 3464.5 1248.9 9557.8 3367.I 8831.7 7643.8 19830.7 3246.8 7172.8

72 54 18.41 72 55 24.I5 72 54 53.55 72 56 42.73 72 58 34.48 73 OI 15.20 72 59 53.26 72 59 28.30

48 29 48 1Z'1 39 OJ

Jones .····················· West Rock ...·..··········· Jones .··.·.···········. -··· West Rock. -- ·····..····.·· Jeremy South..···.···.····. '"6st Rock ..····. -----· ···. Jones .·····.····. ·---···--· Allen ··....···. --- --· .····. Jones .·····.·· --· ··· -- .·· -Gunn. - · -- ..· - ··· ---· ..· - - . Prindle ..·······.······.···· West Rock .····.. ---···---· West Rock ...········...··. South Milford .···· ----·----West Roek ······· ---· ·.···. Hicock,(2) ·.·· ----· .·····.·

Miks. 4.39 3.36 4. 04 2. 38 3. 04 2.91
L 42 1.97

134 05 03
I3 30 36 132 29 12 57 27 52 143 32 42 216 07 2"2 75 ~ 37 29I 48 26 2"&2 05 35
~

35 14 54

215 I3 07 314 03 45 I93 30 03 312 27 33 237 26 58 323 3I 49 36 07 42 255 22 38 Ill 49 49 42 08 09 I49 53 37 184 33 11 80 33 20 354 55 2I

6509.0 3826.2 4894.0 4692.0 2286.4 3I68.3 1142.0 8740.0 3079.0 8076.0 6989.8 18133.9 2969.0 6559.4

WestHavenSpire ···· ----·· 1 41 16 I5.27

~
0 ~

Benlwn" Clrlmn<y ······.· · 1
No:rth Milford Spire.···· ----

41 Ii? 05.46 41 I6 39.82

o.n
5.43 1.9I 5.02 4.34 Il.27 1.84 4.08

t:1

Hicoek, ~---- ······ -·····I 4I 23 10.04 . I ,· I
Hillhouse ·······.·········. I 41 I9 38.22

<ft

l
I

5I 58 4 33 15

260 31 57 I74 55 37

LONG ISLA:ND.
Eastern part.

--~··········.[

41 04 ''-"' \71 51 3'.60

78 11 28 1815317
S() ~ 1.\\ 1-~ '22 ~

Montauk ..·· -- ····· - ···· - ·. Watch Hill .........·.......
M.on~----- -·-· --·····--·

258 09 54 1 53 44
2.6() -l\\ 1.7
\}~~

3411.7 26943.0
4\la~..2

3731.0 29464.0
44.31.-l

2.I2 16.74
1..\l.1

--.-.-:····\"' "'."''" n." "'.'·"'

...... ~"Rm.--~--------------

.·,-~~- ,,~.s

~-"

Name of station.

i

Latitnde.
0

I

Longitude.
0

I

I

Azimuth.
0

To stationGardiner's Island ·.······.··. Montauk ·.·.·····..··.·....

Back azimuth.
0

Distauce.

f Distance.
Yards. 14423.9 8254.5

I

Distance.

~Fort~ond ················.

41 01 43.57 41 00 21.28 40 58 46.55

'

,,

, ..,

71 58 39.39 72 01 17.14 72 05 13.67 72 07 54.31

127 25 48 238 18 42 147 49 22 236 32 05 175 15 07 242 07 15 191 49 36 257 45 0-2

'

fl

, ,,

.
Metres. 13189.8 7548.3

307 20 57 58 21 49 327 46 15 56 33 48 355 14 35 620950 11 50 50 77 49 23 9 54 25 94 57 43 314 27 54 40 02 18 337 47 43
2i:l9 06 45

Miks. 8.19 4.69 7.74 2.86 8.40 3.88 7.95 5.90 6.20 5.21 9.81 4.33 8.11 6.98 3.49 8.26 5.15 4.26 3.98 3.53

Napeague ·..···....·.·.··..
Napeagne Be11Ch .·········.

I

Gardiner's Island .·········.· Fort Pond .················· Gardiner's Island ...·..······ Gardiner's Island ...·.······. Napeague ·····.·.···-···.··· Gardiner's Island ..·····.···. Napeague ..·.····.········· Brown's Hill. ......·........ Gardiner's Island..··...···.· Brown's Hill ..·............. Shelter Island..··.·.··.....· Gardiner's Island ··.··..····. Cedar Point ·.·..·.·····.··. Brown's Hill .......·........ Shelter Island.··············

12464.3 4603.4 13516.4 6253.3 12800.4 9497.5 9975.1 8394.9 15781.5 6966.0 13053.3 11235.9 5610.1 13295.5

13630.6 5034.1 14781.1 6838.4 13998.1 10386.2 10908.5 9180.4 17258.2 7617.8 14274.7 12"287 .2 6135.0 14539.6 9060.3 7504.5 7001.4 6213.6

I Napeague ..·.······..·..···

tt......·.......·.. i 40 59 16.13
i

Accabonoel: ·····.········.

l
i

I

41 00 44.65 41 03 10.27 41 02 37.07 41 08 31.62 41 04 43.04

72 07 15.071 189 53 37 274 53 49 72 09 13.51 72 13 44.63 72 08 20.67 72 16 25.39 72 19 59.75 72 19 38.55

0

Hog Cree k Point .·.·······. !
Point ··············. Gardiner's Point ····.···. - .

I

0 ~

134 33 11 219 59 3"2 157 50 01 109 11 44 324 40 29 34 41 13 171 50 00 ss 2-2 oi 308 36 19 22-2 15 19 212 06 24 155 43 21

·

-

144 42 00 214 37 39 3.'il 49 27 268 18 20 128 38 40 42 17 07 32 07 58 335 43 08

Head. .············.·.

8285.l
6862.4 6402.3 5681.9 6244.4 1202.7

Cleave'11 Point .············ ! 41 06 52.60

RamRead .····.·······.··..
Brown's Hill .·····......·.·. Brown's Hill .··············· Cleave's Point·····-·········

.. \ Ji Point; ··········· \ 410617.06

6828.7 1315.2

3.88 0.75

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Pontiom. Bectioa IL-Long Island. Sketch B, No. 2.
Name of lltll.tion. LongBeach _________ ; _____

I

Latitude.
0
I U

Longitude.
·0
I H

Azimuth.

·~--~~~!~~~~~;~~~~~~~~~~

I

To station-

I
i

Back nzimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.
0 ,
Al

41 07 04-45

7217 05.14 72 13 48.46 72 22 54.87 72 20 53.3i 72 25 31.33 72 19 16.77 72 16 00.72

176 JS 39 84 53 28

Brown'sHill................ Clea¥e's Point .·.·..···· -·-Cornfield Point-·---------·· Brown'slf'ill ...·.. ---·-···-Cornfield Point... __ ··.··.··.
Brown's Hill.. - . -· _........ . Cornfield Point ··... ----·--· Brown's Hill.-··-···-·-····

356 15 ~ 264 51 33

Metres. 3817.3 4090.2

Yat'ds. 4207.3 4472.9

Km.
2.39 2.54
10.6() 3.03

Oyster Pond ····· ----------

41 09 30.88

131 55 05 820225

311 48 35 262 00 09
554521 0 04 50

17055.9 4882.9

186.51.8 5339.8 10463.4 19082.1 5850.8 15367.3 16728.8 2889.5
13270.'1 72.6.1.a

Conk.ling·-·--------------Boeky Point------· ..·· -·-·
Southold Spire------------·

410614.22 41 08 13.53
41 03 44.09 41 01 22.10 .U 00 00.10

23.5 41 38 180 04 50

9568.l 17449.4
5350.2 14052.4 15297.4
2&12.3

5.95

10..:.84
3-~

251 21 34
168 29 50
~ 02 12 146 54 15

71 23 57 3-18 27 59 49 07 38
326 53 0-2

8.73

Brown's Hill._ ··· _ · _. __ . ___ _ Horton's Point .. ·-----····-Horton's Point.............. Shelter Island.. -. · . . . · · . · . . · Shelter Island-----·........ Hog Neck-----··-----·----· Hog Neck .····· ------...... Smith's Fann ....··..·....·· Smith's Fann ...·.·. ---·--·· Hog Neck .··.·· ·-·--------Hog Neck .· ---------------· Smith's Fann ·. _____ .·. _-- _~tue.1'.

Hog Neck .···. ·--··-······ Smith's Fann ······ -------Cedar Island..···.· ---·---Cedar Island Light-honse.... SagHll.rbotSpire...........

154 31 40

122 56 26

302 51 45 33t 30 20

12135.2 6&15.5

138 56 01 ns 55 33 71 10 55 12 37 46 12 16 37 70 35 58
135 19 42 263 31 28
.-"\.~.~-~-

:us 52 37 298 53 24
251 08 18 19"2 37 17

11316.8 5232.7
5886.9
454().3

12375.7 5722..3,
~-7

41 .o-i 23.74 / 72 15 18.24 41 02 25.61

I i 72 15 18.!r2
I

4965.l
5022.8 6142.2

19'2 16 10 250 33 22
315 18 26 83 32 21
15 :;rl 10
~"\.'>.~

4593.0 5891.0

1 40 59 53.23 \ 72 17 20.73

~-n

············ _.....

.\.~ ~A.\.\~-'£ <.!.'1.,~
'<>-ll

395&.7 1881.8
1161\;l.l,
"\~A

-

2.ss 3-66
2.4()

Wu.5
2051.9
1269S.7
"\~-~

l-l'l
·z.~-i

Hilla_____________

~"\."{·"\_"'.

~ ..·~---------------

1..'(4,

Name of .t.tioa.

l

Latftude.
0

, ,,

f

Lo~.
0

I
-

Azhnnth.
0

,

11

,
;J1

f

To station.

-·

:B~k-~nt11. / tlistatice.
0
I
11

~- Dist'8Dee',

---....
Ktlu,

II

..··..·....··....
Bolmea' Hill.····· - ······. -

40 64 49.00 40 66 48.05

7i 33 ~-39 7i 25 03.62 12 21 oo.86

173 35 54 71 16 10

Mattituek lliils ............. Flanders ...................

353 36 ~ 25114 12
~

Met YU9812.4

4468.3
14143.3 12il.l6.0 17174.9

YaTtl·. 10730.6 4875.6

6.1'1 2.77

115

48

72 42 JO

:Mattitdek HIDs . , ,. ······· -. Soutli.P<Jrt ~l.Jl··· ~.I···· l.&·I··
Mattituek Hilla .·..·....···. Holmes' Hill ...............

31 60 252 36 43

15400.7 13370.0
I878'J.O 7068.7

817!1 7.60

o,aelt ······· ··· ·········
Hog Neck ······.····

40 69 22.43
41 01 45.02

94 33 33 42 34 07

274 25 28 222 ~ 04 156 16 43 97 07 43
172 4& 87 16 01 06

6463.9
4804.3 6711.l
~-3

-

10.61
4.0'il

72 23 19.30

336 15 49 277 05 12
302 46 47 200 59 15 21 23 27 'N7 06 00 82 12 24 345 61 39

Koyack............... ,. ···. Hog Neck ············ ,. ···. Noyaek ··.····.···.·······. Hog Neck ···········..······
8out1iport · · < Holmes' Hill ··.·····.···.·.
o · · o

5253.8 6245.i
~49.1

2.99

a.oo

'·Neck .............

41 00 49.lS
40 5E! 66.35 40 69 25.32 40 67 47.M 40 69 25.24 40 63 00.~ 41 01 36.'72

12 22 11.00
72 30 34.09

4198.4

4591.3

1..68 2.61
6.~

. ·-···· .................
HOgNeck ...........

I I

I

o o

·

._ ·

o

o

2fJ7 21 24 117 OS 37

SID9.9 5683.6 6500.5 5002.2 3800.9

!1300.9
9496.1 7le0.t 5470.3 4163.1
9019.~

6.40 4.08 3.11 2.37 6.13 5.47 1.61 JJ.82 f.72 10.46

72 25 55.71

Reeves ....................
Holmes' 1Iil1 ········.·····.

211.l OlJ 22 165 62 13
118 43 30 69 11 67 195 03 14 118 24 07
292454

bbm'· hlancl············
attituck, (llag-atal) ······· 8 hinnecock ··· ~ ············
···~················

n

'J126.28

295 41 SG 249 08 25
15 o.t 1a 298 23 17 209 23 03 146 10 IS

Holmes' Hill .·········.···. No7ack ··_ .................. Southport.:·· -- ···· - ...... ReeTea .................... Ilolme11' Bill .·············· l!attituek Bills ············.
}{~Bili, .·_ ·····.······

1'241.6
Si'95.0 1874.7

72 31 44.65
72 ~ l'll.67 72 31 44.81

9618.0 2050.l
B811.8
l~-9

326 06 05
!l3() 19 16

8057.8 16808.7

6.oi

~=~

Sbian.ecOCk ·· · ~ ~ · ·

II ..'·'·· ·

·"" ·

16111 23

resM.8

4~-3

4792.4 18399.1

'Cfnited Slates Ooast Survey~-GeographicoJ. Posi#ou. &ction- JL-Long Island.
Name of station, Latitude.
Q
I II

Sketch B, No. 2.

Longitude.
0
I 11

Azimuth.
Q
I II

To station.Holmes' Hill . · · · · . . . . · . · . · . Shinnecock: · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · . Southport . . . · · · . . . . · · . . . · . . Flanders . . · · · . . · . . · · . · . . . · .

Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.
Q

f

I

Brown's Point.............
UpperAquebogue.......... Indian Island.............. .James Port Spire...........
Osborn Hill · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .
Biverhe~

Metres.

40 56 50.89 40 56 45.31 40 55 34.08 40 56 17.70 40 52 46.43 40 54 59.24 40 58 40.68 40 57 49.84 40 58 40.94 40 52 18.17
40 ~ <\\. ·.\\\

72 33 10.35
72 36 58.32 72 36 34.26 72 34 22. 77 72 42 17.90 72 39 25.95 72 37 26.41 72 33 38.14

270 23 50 313 40 47
305 09 22 350 32 47 286 51 47 354 30 53 332 26 57 34 09 12 171 41 07 220 05 14 137 28 44 44 30 24 307 58 05 31 59 46 170 11 59 52 27 56 12 29 07 77 42 45 261 07 09 17814 27
'2.\.6 ~ '<>'1

90 29 02 133 44 15

11386.2 10-286.2 6180.0 5061.6 4691.5 28G7.9

¥4rds.12451.6 11248.7

.Kiles.

7.07
6.39

125 11 35 170 33 10

6758.3 5535.2 5130.5 3070.6 3,.140.6 5471.8 11147 .0 19393.2

a.54

3.1&
~-~

Southport . . · . · . . · · · · · . · · · · . 106 53 45 Flanders................... . 174 31 01 Southport · . · · . . . . · · · . . · · · · . Flanders . · · . . · . . . . · · · . . · · . . Friar's Head........ · · · . . · . . Mattituck Hills . . . . · · . . · · . . . Friar's Head................ Osborn Hill . · . · . . . . . . . . . · . . 152 27 28 214 07 54 3.51 40 25 40 10 34 317 ~ lO' 224 28 32

1.75

3054.8 5003.6
10193.2 17733.8

1.90 3.11 6.33 11.02

flJ

& ·

t:;;

Court-house......

Be89.7
6279.7 17038.8 12879.9
4~.2 1~4.4

&.05
3.57 10.59 8.00
2.§il

~

Luce's Landing............ Franklinville .· · ·· · ··· · ·. · . Old Landing............... Gooa Ground..............
1.U\~\ "'IN~-"

Shinnecock.................
Osborn Hill · . . · . . . · · · . . · . . .
Mattimck Hills. . .. .. · · · · · · · . Osborn Hill ...... , ·.. , . ... . . Osbom llill ................ Friar's Head........ . · · · · . . .

72 40 34.52
72 33 50.24
'l'i. ?.\. ~ ~

l

128 oil~ 211 56 29

18633.1 14085.1 4662.l 16780.2 12247.7 43(15.4 9266.9 15788.1
~-0 ~~-9

350 ll al) 232 ~ 15

9.53
6.9&
2.~

l~ ~ 53 257 40 56

11\99.7
~-7

Shin.necock -.· .. " .. . · · · . . . .

Yattituck H"llls ···· , , · · · · · · .
SmnneooeK.... ·· . ·· · · · . · · · · G~G"t<>~:--·'.'~ ···~---~

81 ll 03 358 14 12
?.6
~

8474.0 14437 .2
'1~1.S

5.-~

8.91'
4.'1<\

··· · · ·· · · · · · · · · ·

\.411.

~-.~·

~\-~

03
<')\)

·. t>\.~,'2.

~-~

Name of tstation.

I-

Latitude.
0
I I.I

I Longitude
0 , .. ·

!

Azimuth
G ,

-<

(.
,

Julet_East....... ·· ·· · . . .. .
Cormoranti'oint..... ··.·..
Ram Pasture..............
~

40 50 45.87 40 51 51.99 40 51 08.28 40 51 48.19 40 56 08.51 40 53 46. 39 40 57 54.00 40 53 01.16 40 55 08.05 40 57 11.82 40 57 27 .08

72 fr/ 16.37 72 29 20.77 72 31 i0178 72 23 56.08

69 43 08 168 27 43 304 58 59 224 20 56
4Q29~

I

l--~~--==-=----I
Ini_etWest ........ : ........ Shinnecock....... · · · · · · · · . · Met :E!Mt .··· " ,. ,. ....... . Shinnecock ··········.····..

To station-

Back Uimuth.1 Distance. / Distaiioo.
0

249 40 il6 348 27 19

'

"

Meltu. 6724.3 4236.8 I

I

Ydids. 6"259.9 4633.2

Xatu,
3.56

125 oo 21 44 21 55

3556.2 2953.5
:¥702.3

I I

2.63
2.21 1.84

:l869.o
3233.9
7429.2 2955.2

352 25 04 ltainpton...... ·····. 111 56 51 67 44 11 10 16 36
59 20 07 72 18 33.10 64 17 17 Ill 30 06

I Quogue ··.···...·.·..······ 225 27 13 I Inlet West ·············..·. j 172 25 12
Shinnecock ·.·············· · Inlet East ..·········· ; ··...

6793.51
5069 .9'

I

I
I

4.29 1.68
3.71 3.15 3.90 4.81

291 54 16
247 41 59

5969.21
I

6527.7 5544 .1 6S66.9 8462.7
9tt9.5 7566.2

Great Hill....... . . . . . . . . . .

South

IIatnpton ..··········. Shinnecock .···············.
South Hampton ..·········.·

190 16 00
239 17 01 244 13 44 291 27 06
228 50 33 175 34 43
77 32 27

6219.3

7738.61

Bridge llalnpto11. . · · · · · . · · .
Drake's Hill............... South Hal!tpt.on Spire. . · . . · .
Sag Beach.................

Great Hill ..····.··········.

8394.t

6.22
4.40

6918.8 7660.4

72 18 58.35 72 23 02.28
72 15 03. 73 72 11 52.49 72 11 06.78

48 53 17 355 3t 22 257 29 33 212 15 57

·

Great Hill..··.......·..·... Bridge Hampton ..·······.·. Bridge Hampton .········.·.
Drake's Hill.·...·.···.·..·.

7759.61
6454.2
10684.7

8-i86.7
8377 .2

4.&l

4.76

7058.l
11684.5
6(124 .4 - _8206.9

4.01
6.64

32 18 30

62 48 49 133 01 48
97 28 58 49 32 13

Bridge Hampton...... · · · · . .
Drake's Hill...... . . . . . . . . . . Drake's Hill ·.···. - · · · . . . · .
Sag Beach . · . . . . . . · . · . · · . . .

242 46 36
312 59 14 277 24 18 229 3(f 08 1l36 54 55 :l74 15 16 _

6508 .9
7504.7 10042.7 5881.0 12483.5 11080.6

3.42

4.00

Barnes' Island · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

r

10982.4 6431.3 13631.6 12117.4

6.24
3.66

.East Ilampton Spire ······ ~.

56 59 44

_94

20~

_Dralte'sBill.................

Bridge HamjJt.on...... · · · · · ·

7.76 6.88

g
-"

Name of .tati.011.
-

Latltqde.
0

LoDJiTiidl!,
e

,

LOfll ltlimd, IOlltl& silk.

"

,

I
0

Azlmuill.

To stat\ou-

Back amnuth. DiSUmce. ~· D~ee.
0

"

, ,,
B4se East ..················
!rill .....·.........

,

H

Metres.
31739.5 22360.5 11065.3
1~126,7

Yards.
34708.3 24452-8
12100.1
l~}-4

.M'dea,
19.72 13-S!l

:rq.·······. ....... ······
~bollOj:l}t, .............

40 SJ 03.02 40 47 M.18

72 45 43.82

50 02 16

881~19· Rul1111d's

229 51 00 268 01 55

72 38 25.40 72 34 47.50
72 35 59.19

150 31 16 122 07 17
1~~69

OliboID HUl ................ Terry ......................
Osborn Hill .·············.. Ketchabonock ..............
Ketcba.bonoclt .···········.· Quo~e ....................

330 28 51 30"~ 02 a'7
~

6.87

7-53
8.15

uogu -······ ........ ····· - J 40 48 33-SS
~r ~-······· ·~···· ...........

fO 12 12

306 24 06 0947

13115.2 5427.6

14342.4

5935-5
4553.7 19-Zf>.5
13183~5

3.37

40 48 50.92

552229
~~OS

23.5 20 35 107 25 50
5 32 06 337 24 12

4164.J
1760.7

2.59
1.09
7-49

ehea .···.· ................
,.~r~····rr·········

40 48 11.41
40 4.1 4.6.67

72 43 07-49
72 4l 2:U3

JB5 SJ 30

l57 25 54
!n4 99 10 40 06 48 297 13 55 252 49 03 243 08 4.7 200 0-2 30

'fenr .......·..............
Ketcbabonoc\ ,, , , , ,, . , , , ··· Moriches .··················

Osborn Hill..····. , .·······.

10055.5
9541.0 4336.1
~-3

10433.8 4741.8
389"~.4

5.93

94 41 35 220 05 33 117 14 50
7~

2.69
~-2l

()live!' ............. ........ · · -40 4G 58.!U

1i" 61.19
7S 48 U-47

:Morlchea ...................
sreo~ ···,y··:r~~,, 'f~t:
·!tT

5l 15

2750.J 4957.8'
6035.5 11085.8

2927 .4

5421.7
6600-3
m~-1

3.08

l.7l

f4·:!r···!!rTr·

TP~·····

404529-~

()live·, . ............ : ..··.... Terry .···········.··.·····.

63 n 29 22 04 26

a.15
6.89

e!l'l ~1HloYW1 ········ -- - 40
"lfi'1Mi)}."\\'\)\.········· --- .. ~ \

$l 4lL~
·U.<».\.9S

73 Oil

~-47
~.'il:).

7317

~

la\i (),\ ,\0
~m.u;

Ruland' a Hill .··············
'K~ mQ. 'H.oTUS

J31'8!lW~ ... ,T"'"····"·

i63 ll
~:.

:¥}

10059.0

Q 05 59

~9.3

14280-9

S.ll
12.58

22\A4-0
m~.Q

~

.T2. ..a

'~ ~""'

~"·~ ...... '!:_.., ..... . '!1:4' ... ~.

············

"3\1 '\(}

ro ~

~ ..

"\'l~.I,)

'73"/a.4

SOOIU>

\(}.

.\.

~.S~ C!~ S~--:-t;tf!Ugrap~.I:h~. ,,
~

'

'

,

B'Bd.iim 17.-Lmg .4-lamt.
To station-

$ketc/z lJ, M. !J.
Distance.
-4

Name ofBtation.

-I

I

Latitude.
0

J,ongitnde.
~

_l

Azimuth. i49 23 14 63 53 45 20 39 12 315 59 44 52 42 36. 347 47 'Sf 80 27 29
3'2 36 08

, ,,

Belleville &acb .····.···.. mue Point ···············. atehogue ················ well's Point .............

40 42 43.67 40 43 42.09 40

"

, ,,
00 fn.35

"

, ,,

l

--

--

Back azimuth. - - ..
~

Distance. Distance·
Yards. 18643.2 5874.7

0

J

,,

·= Mdru.

Rola.nd's Hill .············.. 'Yatch Hill ..·····.·······..

32919 12 243 51 29 200 37 57 136 01 36 m41W 167 48 14 260 24 00 212 34 32 239 44 15 200 14 39
3()8

17048.0 5372.0 7675.0 6791.8 3367.6 6351.3 7597.0 6444.9 3659_0 5231.6 61Z.:J.8 2893.7 6863.8 772"2.6 &l83.6 2'271.4 4839.0 0204.5 5447.4 . 4960.9 6607.0

Kiles. 10_59 3.34

73 01 44.21

ltead and llorns .··········. W ateh Hill .···············.
Blue Point .. , ... a. ..... · . . . . . . . . . . Watch Hin .................

8393.2 6333.7 3682.7 6945.6

4.71
3.60

«

48.25

1i 59 60.03

2.09
3.95 4.72 4.01 2.27 3.25 3.19 1.80 4.27 4.80 3.91 1.41 3.01

40 44 23.041 15l 56 24.9-2 40 45 22.s1

-............................
Smith's Point .·.·····.····.

I

7;2 54 10.17

59 45 43

40 44 24.51 \
40 44 07.471

Bmith._ Beach .···········.
Wm.Smith................
Belleport Spire .·········.· Charles Osbom ············ B rown's Point .............

In
n
I I

n

52 33.52 so 56.40 02 3.1.43

I

20 15 29

I
I

Blue Point ................. Watch Hill ............···.. Rowell's Point .·····.····. · BelleruJ.e Beach .·········..

I

I

8397.9 7047.9 4001.4 5721.l 5609.8 3164.5

52 41 24
128 25 11

61 54 03 93 35 41
40 29 50 93 15 27 349 47 13 288 29 21
356 48 40

l I
1
J

. . I Belleville Beach ·.·········. 232 39 31 24 08 Ketchmn ······.·.···.·····.
Belleville Beach ···········. Howell's Point .···········.· Ketchum ................... Belleville Beach ···········. Smith's Point ..···········.· Belleville Beach ···········. Smith's Point .·············· Head and Homs ............ Blue Poiat .......... ~ ........
j Belleville Beach ··········. ·

40 45 18.63 40 45 18.08

I
1

247 51 06 273 3'J 07 220 27 57 273 14 24 169 47 37 108 31 38 176 48 48 118 00 45 178 '}fl 44 18 40 46

7506.l
8445.2 6871.6 2483.9 5291.8 0691.5 5957.1 5425.1 7225.2 3214.2

72 66 03.91

3.23
3.39 3.08

46 45

~.01 I 72 65 40.27
73 OJ 47.03

297 58 43 40 4323.37 358 27 39

t5S 31> 26

2939.2

4.11 1.83

Uniled States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positwns.
Name of station.

Section Il.--L011g lsland.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 2.

LatitUde.

I !

Longitude.

\

I

Azimuth.

I

\ o ' " -o--,-,-,- \ o ' " Green'sPoint ...···....··.. \ 40 43 01.13 73 06 03.45 i 257 53 55

I
I

I 330 15 28

I I \ ' I Back azimuth. j Distance. Distance. \Dist.anc~. \ I Metres. I Yards. Jriles. ; Brown's Point ...·.....·.... : 77 55 24 I S-!73.9 i 3580.2 2.94 ) Head and Horns .·.......... I 150 17 0-2 j 6816.1 l 7453.9 4.24
1
0 ' ''
J

Nicoll'sPoint ············.· , 404152.23
Morris ·.·················. / 40 43 45.04

730836.581 2392321 I 298 30 39 73 06 52.06 l 35 11 31 / 319 53 2i

i HeadandHorus ..........·. I
I Nicoll's Point .··.·....·.·..·
Greeu's Point...............
~reen ' s
1

\Green'sPoint. ...···....·... j

592501 118 33 53 215 10 Z'I 139 53 59 96 46 13 69 54 17 8 21 11 29 12 59

I i
I
[ '

4175.51 79.U.0 i 4257 .3 \ 1770.6 I 3""", ·>=.8 i i 2679.61 5905.3 I 9127 .9 ! 8120.7 , ·5573.8

4655.7 8684.0 4655. 7 1936.3 4037. 4 2930.3 6457 .9 998-2.0 8880.6 6095.4 649'2.7 8885.0 3963.fl

2.64 4.93 2.64 1.10 2 . 29 1.67 3l>7' 5.67 5.05 3.47 3.69 5.05 2.25
r.r..i.···

1

i 40 43 15.18 : Se aman ············.······ :

I
1

Jones ·.····.····.····.··.· · 40 38 42. 79 ;
· i Baberry Island ..····.····.· \ 40 42 18.43 ;
!
1

I Morris..................... 73 09 13.10 I 188 20 47 I Nicoll's Point............... 209 10 55 I Green's Point............... 73 12 31.52 I 324 58 01 Jones......................
1

~,3 08 39.28

1' 2i 16 44 31 249 53 08

I IG

p omt . . ............ ··· j '

1

t;:j

o r-i.
~

I 278 18 53

Nicoli's Point ...·.......... · 1

145 00 10 9S 21 26 66 46 03 97 51 43
90 42 20 217 Z'I 41 130 34 Z'I 2"28 19 58 319 23 00 33 48 03
3 ()8 t'>l. 9"I !1.1. .\',\

I

l

Conklin's Point.......····.· 1 40 41 02.43 \ 73 16 23.891 246 43 31 317 49 32

I
1

I
1

Baberry Island ..···.···.··. · 1 Base West................. Baberry Island.............. Conklin's Point............. Baberry Island ..·· · ···.···..· Cumpaum ..·..·....·......
1

5937 .2 8124.8
3624.5 3008.4 2464.1 2345.0

I I

Cumpalllll ·················

40 42 19.M . 73 15 05.93

2i0 40 39

37 28 32
310 33 35 413 20 47 139 31 04 '213 40 44

3289.9
2694.7 2564.4

1.87 1.53 1.46
16.63 17.66
3.~

.Thllrber's Neck .·.··.····.. \ 40 43 10.38

I

I 73 13 51.28 I
'1'.\ 1.\i \\\\.1.'.\ \

Fire h\and li£nt-\i()use .··.. \ 40 37 53.17 :\3 12 50.67

~est Rills ...·.·..·.·......
'\\Qa..

~'bl~M"t. ······. ··· .
\

.\\)

~~.TI

1.~ 9:i"I

Rulanil.'s Rill. ............. .

\)S .\'.\ ~ \)",,\

Ca""-~e.1'.'omt. ·.·.·········. -...r-.e.t. .·········.······

26767 .4 29'i72.0 28412 .9 \ 31071.5
t>'.M\L3
'1>'1~.'.\
~'1~).G ~-'1

'.\JU.

Name of station.

l

Latitude.
0
I II

f Longitude.
0 , "

I

Azimuth.
0 ' "

To stationConklin's Point ·············
Oak Island Inlet ············

{ Back azimuth. [ Di.stance. / Di.stance. fDi.stance. 81 33 44 149 45 51

Sampawam'sCreelt.........
Fleet'sPoint...............
Oak Island Beach.......... Oak Island············....

40 40 47.63

73 18 34.71 73 20 39.33 73 20 25.80 73 17 36.50 73 20 18.46 73 18 57 .66
73 20 54.29

261 32 19 329 44 34 244 57 13 300 48 22 257 10 21 176 04 43
162 31 37 124 43 51

o

· "

Metres. J 3105.2 5528.8
3229.9 j 6652.7 '

Yards. 3395.8 6046.1
3532.1 7275.2"

M"&ka.

1.93 3.44

40 40 03.31
40 37 33.00

Sampawam's Creek .········· ! 64 58 34 Oak Island Inlet ············ ! 120 51 00

2.01

4.13
3.44

Oak Island Inlet ············ 1
Fleet's Point .·············· Sampawam's Creek ········.· Fleet's Point. ·············. Sampawam's Creek ·········· Fleet's Point ·········
1·

77 12 51 356 04 35 342 30 59 304 41 52 36 13 14 345 57 54

5534_2 4646.9 ,

I

6052.0 5081.7 4978.5 5113.1 4510.8 2210.7
4067 .3

2.89 2.83
3.25

40 38 26.84

Cedar Island ······ - ······ · 1 40 38 59.73

216 12 06

165 58 08
338 15 20 283 54 26
269 18 41 345 10 55

······1I
1

I 4124.8 I
2021.51
1454.511

4552.5 I 5224.8

2.56
1.26

Babylon ···· - ······ - ······ · 1·
llmuiey ···················

40 41 31.44

Sampawam's Creek: ········· 158 15 35 Conklin's Point ············· 1 103 56 06 Sampawam's Creek .········· ! 89 20 12 Fleet's Point ··············· ) 165 11 05 Fleet's Point ..············· \ 70 21 12 Oak Island Beach ..····.···· : 129 41 30

3719.3

1590.6

0.90 2.31

.

~

40 40 46.38 40 39 20.64 40 36 43.52
40 ~58.40 40 36 10.72

3277 .8 1373.81
3911.4 / 5200.2 4741.5 i
I

3584 .5 1502.4
4277 A 5686.8

2.04
0.85 2.43 3.23 2.95 3.03 3.08 2.02

Half Neck................
Gilgo Inlet................ Uncaway.. ···. ··.·······.. High Hill.··· - --- ······ ·...

73 23 16.16 73 23 36.82 73 25 31.60
73 28 16.48

2..50 19 30 309 39 39 2.51 12 40 185 43 11 327 02 01 257 49 04 261 13 33 216 49 38
I

I Half NeeL .·.·..··..· : ····i
Gilgo Inlet ·.··.··.·······..

' Oak Island Beach ..·.·.···. .:I

71 14 44 5 43 25 147 03 15 77 50 32 81 16 35 36 51 25

mo.1 I 5325.a I
4957 .5 I 3254.5 \ 6650.9 \ 6461.9 ' 5421.4 3559.0 7273.2 7066.5

5185.2

Half Neck ············

·····1

i

Gilgo Inlet ·.··············· !

4.13
4.02

Uncaway ················.· \

.United Statu Coast Survey.-Geographical PO$ition&
Latitude. Longitude. Azimuth.

Section 11.-Long Island.
To station-

Sketcli B, No. 2.

0
Jones' Beach East.........

I

40 36

-,,--.--0-,-,,--1---0-,-,,-·i----------i 46.87 73 25 02.52 76 16 28 High Hill .·····.··········· !
170 26 28 73 27 26.12 73 31 06.71 73
~

I Back azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distance. ! Distance. I
!

('

'

I

II

Metre#.

\

Yards. \_ _ .M_ilcs_" -.·

256 14 22 Uncaway ·.···.··········· · 1 350 26 09 High Hill. ................. 191 55 35 Uncaway ...····.··········· i 99 04 38

4693.6 4113.5 5724.3 / 2724.2 7099.4 5188.1 6555.8 69'J7.6 260i.1 4100.6 2851.4 7005.3
1

5112.8 4498.4

2.9"2 2.56

Briek-houee Point..........

40 39 12.32

11 56 07 279 03 23
325 41 31 272 54 11

i

6259.8 2979.1
7763.7 5673.6 7169.2 7575.8

3.56 1.69
4.41 3.22 4.07 4.30 1.62 2.9"2 4.35 3.03 2.16 3.07' 2.82 4.47 3.45

Little Neck...............
New

40 39 20.90
40 35 51.76
40 37 58.02 40 35

High Hill .·····.·.··.······ 1 145 43 21 Brick-house Point ....··.·... I 9-2 56 35

Inlet.................

54.24

264 51 20 201 23 01
208 13 24 122 54 57

High Hill ·····. ··-··....... Little N eek . · · · · . · . · · · · · · · · B:ick-b?use Point ...·..···· Little N eek ...··..·····..··

84 54 21 21 24 11 28 14 03 302 52 54

·rf
?

Lineii' Island ··············

73 28 18.49 73 30 09.92 73 30 10.93

·I
1

I

I

2844.5 5147.0 I
I

~

Jones' Beach West ..······.
Grellt Island··············.
~r

37.921

249 12 51 169 01 27
~ 3713 157 52 17

High Hill ·.··········.····· [ 69 14 05 Little N eek ···.·..····.... · j 349 00 50 Brick-house Point ..····. ···'! 52 39 00 Little Neck..·.·.··..··.···· ! 337 51 41 New Inlet .·········...····· / 160 30 40 Little Neck ······...··.·... i 66 51 09 New Inlet .·.··.·......···.. I 110 06 55 Raynor ·...······.·.··.·..· 66 43 50

40 37 36.46

I 4872.o I 3477.6
4947.0 4542.6 7188.1 5550.2'

I

3118.2 / 7660.8

I.7"1

=· ·''

5327.9 3803.0 5409.9 4967.7
7860.7 6069.5

: ·····. .··... ···-··

40 38 22.96 , 73 34 04.49

Titwi ······· ···-·· ·······.

..

40 37 11.81

I

340 29 54 246 49 13 290 03 48 246 41 28 .

I
I

73 37 41.44

i

Long Beach East ·······...
~'.'le Ko~

40 35 18.91.\73 34 28.48
4.(1
~ ~.4.9 ,~

245 24 56 185 40 19

New Inlet .············.···.· I~ 65. 25 59 Raynor . · · . · . . · . . · . . · . · . · . · 5 40 34
'fit.us · . · · · · · · . . · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Jb.lU()'I: ·-·- ·--· ···- · · · - ----

..···············

'M. 'El .00

277 02 (13 .1.1>. t.1. 00

\

2436.41 5704.6 \
4604.7
~-9.

2664.4
6238.4 \
(>035.6
~-8

1.52

3.55
2.87
1. .'lf>

Name of-Btation.
Long.Beach .· :............ Geutleman'a Hill .·········. Near Rockaway ···········. Hog Island ······ ·········· Pavilion ···················

l

Latitude.
0 ' ,,

( Longimde.
0 , "

I

Azimuth.
0
I H

{

T11 station-

Back azimuth. { Di.atance.
0
I II

l

Distance. Di.atanoe.
Yards.

~~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~;~~~-1-~~~-1-~~

40 35 08.02 40 34 59.79 40 38

73 36 33.95 73 39 05.36 73 39 29.03 73 39 09.54 73 44 55.54 73 42 28.82 73 42 31.78

255 20 36 210 17 01 2055041
259 33 33

I New Inlet .·······..··..···. 'Raynor ·.··.·.···..······..
Titus .··.·······.···.·····. New Inlet ..·······.··...... Titus ·········.············
Gentleman's Hill ........... .

75 22 59 30 18 38 25 51 36 79 37 34
120 43 57 174 18 10

Metres. 5339.0 6963.6

Milu.

5838.6 7615.2
4947.8 9701.9 3216.4 6126.2

3.39

4.33
2.81 5.48 1.83 3.48
1.64 1.97

4524.4 8871.8 2941.2 5602.0 2635.4 3165.9 8348.6 8742.6

00.531

300 42 47 354 17 54 231 47 09 171 41 04
279 31 05 241 20 20
305 44 36

40 36 18.96 40 35 44. 72
1

Titus .···.·.···.····· ······ Near Rockaway..... . · · · · . · ·
Gentleman's Hill. .....··..·. Near Rockaway ············· Gentleman's Hill ············ Near Rockaway ..··········· Gentleman's Hill .··········· Near Rockaway ..···..··.·..

51 48 06 351 40 51 99 34 53 61 23 53

2882.0 3462.1

rn
~

9129.8 9560.7
6445.6 5173.9
5427 .7 M31.6

5.J9 5.43

Hieb' Neck...............
Bicb' Beach··············
I

40 36 51.49 40 35 33.46 40 37 36.73

125 46 49
63 15 49

243 13 52
28-2 03 23 223 25 20

5894.1 4731.2
4963.3 6247 .1 28862.7 42542.3 29373.5

3.66 2.94
3.08

·

102 05 37
43 27 19

3.88 17.93
2fL43

Howard, (Stat.eu Ialand) ····
Mount Prospect ···········

74 05 03.89

163 34 41 243 19 10

Weasel .··················· 343 30 54 Harrow ··.················ · 1 63 36 48 Weasel ..·.·.·············· Howard.: .·····.··.········

!

31563.4 46543.2

40 40 15.731 73 57 41.40 73 55 13.25
II.

140 54 53 64 47 02 95 05 08 150 24 33
114 03 33 19"2 36 All

1

244 42 14

320 46 16

11493.6
13934.9 7046.1
]4096.0

I

12569.l
152.'38.8 7705.4
15415.0 5057.0

32122.0

JB.25

7-14 8.66 4.38
8.76

Flatland& · · ··············· Couer Island .East ·········

40 36 57 .10 40 34 39.78

!Howard .·.···············.· 274 58 43 Mount Prospect ...··.·····.. 1
1

73 55 56.16

'

I

l Flatlaudl · ·· · · · ············

I Howard .············.·· ····

l

330 2"2 58

293 57 34

123624

\

4624.3.

2.87

UniteJ, States Coast Survey.-Geograpliical Positinns.
Name of station.
-~~~~~~~~-

Section JL-:..Lot1g Islat1d.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 2.
Distance. \ Distance. Distance.

I

Latitude.
0 '
P

I

Longitude.
0
I :1

Azimuth.
0

Back azimuth.
0 , ,

-~~1~~~~~1-~~~~~~~~~

.
2 21 56 300 16 25 311 26 37 266 47 53 328 17 26 270 23 23
244 57 17 138 39 36

I

'I

Wyckolf...... ···· ···· ····

40 34 27.95 40 3i 49.13

73 58 00.25 73 49 36.69 73 52 58.33 73 52 59.46 73 47 17.73 73 49 35.86 73 52

18-2 21 46 120 21 01 131 31 52 86 53 19

Mount Prospect · · · · · · · · · · . . Howard.... . · . . · · · · . · . . . . . . Mount Prospect · · · · · · · · · · · . Wyckoff....... ···· ···· ···· Mount Prospect · · · · · · · · · · · . Wyckoff ·. ~.. · . · · · · . · · · · · · · Flatlands . . . . . . . · . . . . · . . · . . Rockaway Beach...... . · . · · .

Mares.
10735.6 11536.6 15206.5 11860.2

Yards. 11958.9 12616.1
166'29.4 12969.9

Jrilu.

6.67 7.17
9.45 7.37 7.87 4.41 2.16

Rockaway Beach...........

Barren Island..............
Canausey. ·. . · ·. · ·· · .···..
Jamaica South............. Booraem · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .

40 34 26.28
40 37 44.69 40 39 24.87 40 39 54 . 27 40 39 50 .44

148 20 30 90 26 37
64 58 46 318-37 24 21 01 08 68 58 42

12665.8 7100.6
3470.0 7214.0 9110.0 8603.1
623.'l.2 9412.2

13850.9 7765.0 3794.7 7889.0 9962.4 9408.1 6816.4 10'292.9 1476.7 11324.7

4.pl

Rockaway Beach............ Canausey · · · · . · . · · · · · · · · · · .
Canausey · · . · . · · · · . · · · · · · . . Rockaway Beach............
Pavilion... . . . . . · · · · · · · · · · · · Rockaway Beach............

200 59 37 248 54 59
230 05 36 180 07 04
124 11 24 153 50 55

5.66
5.35 3.87

50 07 59 0 07 05
304 06 13
333

8.09 0.84
6.43

. New Lots, (spire) · · · · · · · · · ·
Long Island, norlh side· .Glover.... · · · · · . · · · . · · . · · .
Fresh Pond..... ··.· ··· ···
~--····· ···· --·· ····

ii.oo

4s

48

1350.3 10355.6

40 57 36.23 40 57 44.25
<\\) 'St \\).9\\

72 49 17 .60 72 46 37 .11

53 28 47 337 24 20 358 52 45 326 32 43

Ruland's Hill............... Terry.. . · . · . . . . . . · · . . . · · . . . Friar's Head . · · · · · . . . · · · · · · Osborn · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .
Ru\11nir" Rill · · · . · · . . . . · · · · . '1:...-r,q ----~ ----- -··· --·- ---·

233 20 42 157 36 40

21581.l 13120.1 4673.2 11006.9
\;,()89 .8
1.74."IB-~

23600.4 14347.8 500.5 12036.8
\650\.8 19U3.6

13.41 8.15

78 54 54 146 35 34
~16

2.90 6.84
9.3%
1.\).~

o\f> 4.3 1'.3n ~ ~

Name ofstation.

l

Latitude.
0

I

Longitude.
0

I

Azimuth.
0

I

To stationHallock ·········.·· -··--· ·· Terry ·······.·············.
Ruland's Hm. ---- ···.·····. Terry ······················ Roland's Hill .···.···....... BllSe East .················· Ruland's Hill .··....·.·..... Mount Pleasant .············ Mount Pleasant ············· Little ·····.·······.········ Roland's Hill .···.·········. Mount Pleasant .············ Mount Pleasant ··.·········· Stony Brook .·········.····· }fount Pleasant .···········. Blydenburgh · · · · . · ········. Blydenbnrgh .·····.·.·.···. Ketchum ...···...···..····. Stony Brook .·· ; ·········.·. Smithtown .········..··..·. Stony Brook ................ Crane Nook ················

fBack
0

I

azimuth.

Distance. Dista:uce. Distance.'
Metres.
Y<Lrtls.

,

w.Oodhull. --······ --·· ···llJlt Sinai ····· - ·········

40 57 18.26 40 56 38.90 40 48 52.09 40 52 57.49 40 53 06.95 40 53 22.44 40 54 17.75 40 53 04.16 40 48 54.49 40 57 52.88 40 55 24.02

"

,

72 53 12.22 73 01 52.42 73 10 13.81 73 12 53.02 73 11 01.28 73 10 16.59 73 14 28.92 73 17 29.72 73 17 55.30 73 08 57.39 73 17 52.03

"

, ,,

,

85 24 17 317 46 01 358 15 19 294 28 36 254 39 43
328 05 44

265 22 04 137 50 56 178 15 29 114 39 03 74 45 21 148 10 19 105 09 38 153 47 12 171 57 22 263 37 07 112 33 58 179 33 14 149 16 54 106 08 16 127 19 44 892926 51 16 3.5 4 27 27 192 30 56 229 25 09 109 25 26 69 53 13

"

2806.7 1562'2.3 11100.5 249'25.3 12528.3 19293.7 16371.8 8437.4 7939.0 2632.2 13145.1 8338.6 11686.1 6147.1 12832.6 9093.6 12436.7 7723.2 8544.5 10205.8 11299.1 13320.l

3069.3 17084.1 12159.2 27257.6 13700.6 21099.0 17903.7 9'226.9 869!.9 2878.5 14375.l 9118.9 12779.6 6i2-2.3 14083.4 9944.5 13600-4 8445.9 9M4.0 lll60.2 12355.4 14566.5

M"ales. 1-74 9.71
6.90 15.49 7.78 11.99 10.17 5.24 4.93 1.64 8.17 5.18 7.26 3.82 7.97 5.65 7.73 4.80

OIUlt Pleasant ···········.

Little -·-·· ........

··-- ........ ---·

285 02 16 333 45 27 351 56 48 83 38 18 292 28 18 359 33 13 329 14 08 286 05 31 307 14 59 269 25 15 231 12 13 184 27 16 12 31 48 49 28 46 289 20 24 249 47 19

Blydenburgh · · · · · · - ·······
Brook ···············

Smidltown · · · · · ·········· Ketchum ··· >.'·"· ....··....

Carl ····················.· Crane Neck ··············.

B roken Land ·············.

.

5.3J. 6.34 7.02 8.28

United States Coast Suroer.J.-Gcograpltical Positions.
Name of station. LatitUde.
0

Section IL-Long Island.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 2.

.
Milu.
5.5~

Lougitude.
0
I

Azimuth.
0
I

Back azimuth. , lJistance. \ Diatance. Distance.
0
I

,

Nassekeag ················

40 54 31-68
4-0 56 06.81
~

"

,,

,,
Ruland's HI11 ..············. .Mount Pleasant .··..········ Mount Plea..«ant .·······.···. Ruland's Hill ...............
Ru1and's Hill ..········.···. Nassekeag ___ ·.····.·..····

73 05 21-28
73 03 28.19 73 04 58.58 73 03 38.68 72 59 33-40 73 06 47.69 73 05 43.76 73 06 25.63 73 06 20.85 73 06 47.83
'i'l..~~-~

323 53 09 33 12 43 35 20 50 345 40 12 253 57 11 176 26 01 155 03 14 251 53 32 147 08 23 85 31 17 67 29 40 344 51 26
14-0 07 42 96 40 38

143 55 35 213 09 31 215 16 25 165 41 24 73 59 22 356 25 46
334 55 59 88 06 51
326 58 26

"

Met7e1!. 8873.5 12515.4

l'am. 9703,8 13636.5 17007.7 11403.5

7.78 IO 21 6 4B

Cumsewang ······.········
Mooney Ponds ············. Mount Mise:ry ·············· Miller's Plaee · · · · · · ·······
Old .Field Point -·········· w Miller ·············

16430.3
10427.8 48f'{)_O 85..16.8
36560.8 28487.6
33944.8

49 55.45

5346.8
9335.6
39981.8

3.04 8.10
22.72 17.70 24.20 3.58

40 57 41.23 40 57 55.81 40 58 33.66 40 57 35.74 40 56 45.48 40 56 43.04 40 58 M.45
4l\
~ 1..'i.~

Tashua Hill .··········.···· }nar's Head_ ..·.··.···.··· Tashua Hill ··············· Mount Misery ······.······ Crane Neck ················ Nassekeag ···.············. Old Field ·..·······.·.····· Crane Neck ·······.·······. Crane Neck .··············· Andrew Miller ············· -

31153.2
425a3.9
629"~.6

265 28 36
247 28 15 164 52 34_

5754.2
3'i84.8

7731.3
2W3.9 4558.3
4112.7 1833.5

3592.2 5454,.7

2.04 4.80_
1.45 2.83

:t20 07 00 276 38 31
300 20 46 32 17 19 300 27 30 28 05 40

2546.8
4984.~B

tanket Episcopal clinrch,
(spire.)

120 22 25 212 16 51 120 29 13 208 05 16 320 24 18 67 03 14
'M.
~?I.\

4497.5 2005.1

2.56 1.14 2.64 1.14
1.46

_

etPresbyterianclimch, (spire.)

Crane Neck-···-······· .... Andrew Miller ············..
Andrew Miller ············· Crane Neck ················
'

4247.3 1842.3 2351.0 3289.5
1~.\i

2644.7 2014.7 257LO 3697.3
4698.a
-}431AA

Old Field Point. ligli.t-liome ·
Stou-,: lm>o"k. ~c- ········

140 25 00 247 01 49
'2U~~

2.o4
2.61 S.1:

'¥\ '<>'l

~

'i:'i\<:>u-, Ym'.lo'r. ················ ~""' ~---·-···· ··"···

....

'lrlll'f.1.. ~

~-<>

Name ofIStation.

I

Latitude.
0
I

I

Longitude.
0
I

Azimuth.
0
I

To station-

Back azimuth. Distance.
0
I II

Distance. Distance. Yards.

.N°JBSeqUllgtle ···············

40 55 04.58 40 51 14.52 40 53 17.48 40 46 57.07 40 51 07.16 40 52 55.84 40 56 18.77 40 51 00.91 40 52 57.59 40 53 37.05 40 55 43.46

"

.,

It

MetTeB.

73 JO 37.85 73 12 19.00 73 16 39.37 73 20 39.32 73 25 04.71 73 20 05.63 73 23 13.07 73 30 17.89 73 33 06.20 73 29 31.04 73 25 29.96

351 02 10 262 23 21 207 52 22
326 07 52

Stony Brook .··············· Stony Brook Bank ·········· Blydeuburgh ··············· Mount Pleasant ········.··.· Blydeuburgb ··············· Mount Pleasant ··.···.·.··.· West Hills ·····.·····.···.. Base "\Vest ············.···· West Hills .·.·.···.·······. Dix Hill .....·.··..·..·.·.·

171 02 19 82 24 40 27 53 10 146 09 14 92 !2 43 132 13 37 268 44 18 151 04 12 182 25 27 122 51 31 186 06 22

3189.8 2954.8 3923.1 5290.1 7920.8 12187.7 6396.8 23619.2 4153.9 7399.4 7405.9 7763.0 7643.0 9960.0 31245.7 12327.6 ll678.7 5336.8 5181.3 4939.3 3381-8 9183.0

3188.3 3231.3 4290.2 5785.1 8662.0 14128.1

Miles. 1.98 1.84 2.44 3.29 4.92 7.57 3.97 14.68 2.58 4.60 4.60 4.82 4.75 6.19 19.41 7.66 7.26 3.32 3.22 3.07 2.10 5.71

East Blydenburgh ··········

.Bmtet ···· ·----- ·····--·-·

272 19 05 312 09 25 88 47 16
330' 58 57

Dix Hill ·····... ---- .··...
Huntington ················

6995.4
25829.2 4542.6 80!11.8 8098.9 8489.4 8358.2 1089"2.0 34169.4 13481.1 12771.5 5836.2 5666.1 5401.7 3698.2 10042.3

2 25 32 30"2 48 36 6 06 43 64 26 52 324 57 58 15 13 00 153 57 37 61 58 45 36 26 37 312 23 09 76 25 55 12 50 14 251 12 22 304 14 06

Long Bill ····· ------·· ·.·.

Dix Hill ...·.·············. Huntington .········..······

244 23 37
145 00 01 195 11 47 333 51 11 241 53 41 216 23 23 132 24 59 256 23 35 192 49 38 71 13 51 124 17 52

Eat.on ················ -···
Sheep ····················

LongHill ·······.·.·····...
Huntington ·.·········..···· Ronnd Hill ··.·······.·.··.. Harrow ···.········.······· Harrow .··.·.···.··..······ Sheep .·..······.····..···.

lfill Neck .················

Cooper's Bluff ·············

Mill Neck ··········..·····. Sheep ...···.·.··.·....··.·
Eaton ..··········.········

E ast Fort ·················

Long Hill ..·.·......·.. ··-.

f.Tnited States Com1t Sttrt'eiJ.-Geogra1l/1.1cal Positiml1.
Name of station.

Section II.-Lo11g Island.
To station-

Sketch

JJ, No.

2.

I

Latitude.
0

I

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0
I

Little Neck Point ·········· Crab Meadow ·············

40 54 46.17 40 55 27.72

' "

73 22 11.09 73 20 36.11 73 25 25.56 73 23 29.42 73 24 43.10 73 26 13.59 73 28 21.16 73 24 52.24 73 20 43.30 73 21 55.18

"

,,

I

Rack azimuth. Distu.uce. \ Distance. Distance.
0

I

I

, ,,

Mr.Ires.

153 05 21 no 48 54 IJ3 13 31 60 0-.2 06 219 14 51 258 21 34 69 17 01 183 32 17 202 50 38 304 24 34 219 41 57
285 53 38

Eat-0n ··..·······.········. East Fort .·······.·····..·· Eaton .···.················ Little Neck Point ····.·····. Eat-0n .···················. Little Neck Point ··········. Sheep ········.···········. Enton .···.··.············· Eaton ····················. Gallows Hill..·············· Eaton ···.················. Gallows Hill .········.······ Eaton .···················· Gallows Hill ......................... Huntington Harbor ·········· Gallows Hill ....... ..........................

333 04 40 290 46 44 293 11 48 240 01 04 39 16 18 78 23 42 249 12 38 3 32 28 22 51 37 124 25 32 39 43 46 105 55 25 63 37 38 110 53 04 5 32 43 62 19 07
225 55 Z'1

320-.2. 7 4976.5 3994.5 2364.9
4896.8 4644.9

l'ards. 3502.4 5442.2

.Miles. 1.99

3.09
2.48 IA7 3. 04 2.89

·
East Neck ·········.·····.
Gallows Hill..····.······ -Hnntingtoo Harbor ········.

4368.3 2586.2 5355.0 5079.5 11184.9 6771.2
5931.l 2286.8

40 54 15.81 40 52 58.41 40 53 36.72 40 53 33.90 40 54 22.76

10227 .9 6191.8 5423.6 2091.l 6609.91 3990.9, 7307.2

6. 35. 3. 85
3.37 1.30 4.11 2.48 5.00 4.54 1.37 1.36

oo ·

Van Wyek ················

7228.4 4364.3 8799.9 7900.9 2416.5 2394.3 9311.5 5565.7 6654.2 2954.9
1817 .\)
~-7

Croaainan ·················

243 34 16 290 49 53 185 32 38 242 18 13 45 58 18 136 30 05 162 34 37 218 30 00
~

8046.9,
8514.8 I 5089.5 i
I

Huntingron Spire ·········. j 40 52 25.42 Northport ················.

l

-

2209.71 2189.5

40 54 19.10

Huntington ················· Eaton ····················· Eat-0n ····················· North Point ···············.

3l62827 342 33 46 38 30 56

"----------------\ 40 .. 10.5'
~a ~omt. Ug\l\r\\\)use. ··

4.\\

~,

1.1..\?#.\

1?. cr3. ~-\\0

\.1 00

O&t:.'e.~

"E.8.1:.on ······· ······ ········ 171) 17 17 . ~¥~---.····.··· ···.··· .. ~ µ1 ?.e.

-·\
2702.l
1661..5
~-~

5. 29 3.16
3.78 1.68

1.0~
2,.~

Name of station
~~~~~~~~~

/

Latitude.

/

Longitude.

Azimntll.
0 , ,,

To st.a.tion~~~~~~--~~~

{Back azimuth. { Distance. f Distance. JDistsllclf.
I

I-' ... _

-.l..:s..uen ·····················

·.

4~ ~ ~-std 7; ~ ;_48
40 54 56.23

Metrgs.

Ludlum ······ ----·· ·····.

i l 73 31 09.93
73 32 43.12 73 29 23.48

i

3'is 59 53 279 02 50

Sheep·---····· ···.·.····.. ' 149 01 ~6 Cooper's Blulf .·..··· _ ···· _., 99 0-l 53 Sheep .··.·.······.·.·.··..
CrOSb""llllill · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

&1~.4
4466.2

I

i

Yards.
7040.8

M"rlcs.

4.00

4884.l

2.78 4.51
2.54 3.12 2.88 2.26 4.14

350 28 02 284 37 57 317 23 52 256 02 13

!

170 28 36 104 39 48

7360.0 4082.1
6024.8

8048.7 4464.1
5495.0 5066.1

Oyster Bay················ 1 40 53 00.85
N9rtbwest BluJf············
40 55 34 83

Sheep . . · · . · · · · . · · · · · · · · · . . Cooper's Blnlf........ · · . . . .
Cooper's Bluff ··············

137 25 27 76 04 19
182 47 10 2"..4 30 35
1

4632.6

2 47 15 44 3-2 46
270 22 51 17 56 49

Oyster Bay ...·.............

3637.31
6662.0

Lloyd's N_eek ········ _····.
Centre bland ··············

40 56 20.32 : 73 28 01.64 40 53 14.45 40 51 36.55 40 52 14.15 40 52 24.53 40 52 19.48 73 31 10.72 73 28 16.81 73 27 28.84 73 30 23.98 73 31 21.90

90 26 00 Earon ····.········.. Sheep .···.··..·····..···. · 1 197 55 20

······I

6749.6 10355.5 '
4300.7 2435.1 3041.4 4102.6
3836.8

I

I

3971.6 7285.4

343 16 45 253 21 41

Sheep ....···...··...·····. 163 17 20 · Cooper's Bluff ··.··········..1 73 22 46

470.3.1 2662.9

.

4.19 6.43
2.67 1.51

Jo~·-·····--· .... ·····Cold Sprillg ········· ······

68 49 05
154 56 48

Sheep ·.···.··.··········.. ! 248 47 40 Cooper's Blulf ············· · 334 55 59

I

I

3326.0 4486.5
4195.8 1765.6 2066.1
376"7.0

1.89 2.55 2.38 1.00
1.17 2.14 2.19 1.42 6.17

131 48 06

44 05 30
Dekay.................... .()yster Bay Academy.......
Kirby·- .·.··.·.··.. ·----·
144 36 31

Cooper'· Blnif' ······...·· ··.. Jones ················ -·-··

3114646 2-24 04 59

1614.5 1889.3 3444.7
3.529.7 2289.9

108 59 41
2-27 18 58 123 52 26
240 06 41

I Oyster Bay .......... - -· ·...
Cooper's Bluff ..············ Oyster Bay .······.·· _······

Centre Island .....···..····.

324 36 00 2&8 58 10
47 20 11

303 a1·33 60 10 42

3360.0 2504.2 10866.0 5396.2

40 48 26.78. \ 73 31 12.55

195 04 16

Huntingron ················· Sheep ·.·_ ··.·················

9936.3

15 04 52

4934.5

3.07

United States Coast Survey.:_Geogta1>hical Positi011s.' Section IL-Long Island Sound.
Name of station.

Sketch B, No. 2.

Latitude.

Lo~tude.
Q
I

J, _ _

A_v_·m_n_th_.-'r----T-o-sta_ti_·o_n--_
0 · ,.

Back azimuth.
0 , ,,

I

Distance. Distance. Distance.
Metres. 4473.8

Townsend .·········..··· ..\
Wheatley.................

4~ ~ d~.43
40 48 12.25 40 49 06.99

fl

l'ams.
4892.4 10749.4 4996.2 10013. 7 9947.9 4178.9

73 36 17 .24 73 M 48.91
73 40 12.83

271 30 35 14 29_28 82 30 21

Mill Neck.................. Harrow ..··········· :.....

91 32 38 194 28 20

9829.6
4568. 7 9156.9
9-096.7 38'21.3

)files. 2.78 6.ll 2.84 5.69

166 5.7 00
Ondenlonk ···..··...···...
LONG ISLAND SOUND. Westera part.

Harrow...... . ·... .... .... Townsend . · · · . . · · · · . · · · · · · .
Townsend.................. Harrow...... . .··..· ......

262 28 15 346 56 09
37 22 00 126 44 45

21719 27 306 ~ 20

5.65 2.37

-lJ'l

·
40 51 59.62 73 42 48.35 73 37 39.76 258 12 15
325
~-41

.

Sands' Point...............

Townsend.... . . . . . · · . . · . · . . Onderdonk .. · . · · . ··· · · . . . ··
Townsend.................. Sands' Point.... . · . . . . · . . · . . Townsend . . . . . · · . . . . . · . . · . . Cooper's BluJf...... · . . . . . . . Townsend ..·...····..· : .··. Sands' Point ...··.····· - ···· ;:is. - .~; ~ ln-C:'~.,... ~----·- ···--····· ·-·Ca1,1t&u's Island .......... - .. Townsend ............ "... . Sll.nds' Point.... . . · . . . . · · .. .

78 16 31 145 38 20 136 27 23 241 22, 35
226 53 33 112 01 5!l 180 43 06 914 12 37

9353.7 6452.0
2803.2 8"2"28.0
5049.6 6276.2 11751.6 16521.5 4680.0 1554.0

10228.9 7055.7
3065.5 8997.9
651/!U
~-ti

5.81 4.01 1.74 5.11

~ ..
~

Matinicook Point ..··.·.·..· Il 40 54 07 .29
Oak Neck Point...........

316 26 28 61 25 57

40 54 53.29

73 33 39.79

46 55 16

3.14

::::::: :::::/ :::::
house.

291 59 10
0 43 10 34 16 57

a.oo.

12851.2 18007.4

7.30 10.26

1

118 19 52 236 33 23 .:f'.:
334 45 41 23 22 29

298 17 57
56 34 38 154 48 09 203 20 41

5117.9

1699-4
U\48.8
1~.5
9008.~

0.911
6.33 7.5:\
I'>.~

2.91

Manuninglsla.ndPoint ..... \40 58 00.«

G\e~~\l'le.~----·

·····. ····

4..\l

~\.

:.Q\

73 39 22.87
'li.

~ "2;\').~

10194-9 12124.1

~~~"'

~':::::~-~·:::::::::::::. \~~ ~~

:~-~

TI1\-~

~.'\\

r
Name of station.

Latitude.
0
I
It ;

Lo~e.
0
I II

{.

Azimuth.
Q
I II

To station~~~~~~~~~~

!"&el azimuth.

Dista1Ice. /
.MetttS.

111stance. 1»sta1tcf!,
Yrn"ti#.

Glefl Ceve Wluu:f ·· · · .. · ·· .
Buckram..................
Coles · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · .. · · · .

40 51 47.49

1

73 39 00.32

94 01 54 121 13 52
~ 59 56 B4 56 50

Sands' Pomt ............... Premium l>oint ............ .

-I
!

ft>

I

11

Mild,

273 59 24 301 09 51

5352.6 10149.0

5853.4 1109$.6

3.a:J 6.31
6.61 3.41

40 51 58.34 ' 73 34 32.47

i

Harro1r ..·····.···.·.···... j 21151 aJ
Gle11 C11"te .................. 1 264 54 18 Harrow .................... 1 196 57 23 Gle11 Cove ······ , ........... ~ 1634

9024.1 5478.g
7696.B Z168.4

9869.l
6991.6
~.6

40 51 48 A2

'i'3 36 27. 68

16 58 25 "6 17 60

3027.4 2437.61 10196.2
1~2.lJ

l'oplar Hill ·····.·····.··..

! 40 &2 55 .oo
!
!

1a 37 52.09
21 16 48 307 39 12

Uadedilll ................. '. 40 52 36.14 , 73 35 &UIS
Carpenter · · · · . . · ···..···. i 40 50 52. 91

! Buckram ···.·.··········...

I Tou-nse11d ·····.···········. ! 84 57 01 Harrow ·············. -····· I 181 Z1 06 I Harro1t' .................... 1 201 15 30
J

2229.0 9323.S 9375.1 1907.9 5577.5 5795.7

l.39
6.79

1Z1 40 11
30

2086.4
6099.4

6.82 J.18
3.47 3.60

73 36 24.48 i ~ <Ji 1&

I I , Harrew ···················· ; 174 37

249 36 23
145 06 16 112 59 ~ 57 09 58 6 ~ 2-i

j Bttchaln ...................

i
I

69 38 57

6338.0
11743.i 2315.0
4671.8

Carpenter'11:Neek..........
'1

40 l'iO 55.03

73 38 51.10

Downing ················..

i 40 50 22.11
\

I
f

: Delancy , · · · · · · · ··.·······. I 325 03 ~ ; Mott's Point ................ , 292 58 38

10738.1 2116.9

6.67 1.31 2.65 2.88

1a 111 m.66
73
;!}

OnderdlJllk ·············· - - -1 237 08 · Harrow ····..·····.···....· 186 32
1

(J7 (J7

4Z72.l
4633.1
25S3.3
3..,-00_()

5066.6 2830.5 2047.4 3556.7 1939.6 )l179.1

Hegennan ................ ! 4-0 49 45.00
Chee8em111.1 ··············· .\ 40 49 35.94

18.75

243 44 56 332 34 :ti
220 28 12 347 46 58 91 27 07 355 26 50

73 38 31.53

I . , Downing ·.····.····..······
i Barrow ................... .

Doll'Ding ··················· Harrow ·.·..···.·.········.

63 45 Z1 152 31 47
40 28 46 167 47 17

4260.r. 1

I

J.61 2.42

1872.2
3252.4 1773.6 1993.2

I.JG
~-02

\
PellCOCk Po.iJit ....... ...... 1 40 54 00.84 73 36 24.00

I

Matinloock Point············ To1hlilelld ·····.············

Zll 26 16 175 26 6t

1.10

·l-0 ~·
~

1.24

U11ited States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions. &cu'.On IL-Long lsland SO'llnd.
Name of station.
Henry Mott ·····..·····... !, Latitude.
0 ,
11

Sketcll B, No. 2.

·· de. L ODg!tu
Q
I

I !

ti

·----0

.Azimuth.
1 ll

To station-

Back azimuth.\ Distance. Distance. \Distance.
1

40 51 26.98

Delancey ··.···.··.·.····. \ 40 55 40.51
Mamaroneck ············· _
Scotch Caps, (2) .·······.··

I
I

73 41 06.81

I
I

-----~------- :---~l----i---o ' 11 Metres. Yards. Mile:1.

I

113 03 52 2'24 28 48

Sands' Point. .·········· ·--Matinicock Point ·······.·.·. Sands' Point. .····.··· _····. Townsend .········...·. _··. Townsend ·.·····.···.·· --- . Sands' Point. .·.····.....·.· Sands'-Point ......... ---.·--Towuseud ..·...··· --- ·····.

293 0-2 46

2571.5

44 31 03 175 01 22 116 45 38 123 50 04 171 14 13 191 27 33 126 58 57 175 24 52 145 36 46 198 38 S2
243 37 04

6933.l

2812.1 7581.8 7479.0 11933.1 13860.2

1-60 4.31

13 43 13.11

I 355 01 06 I 296 41 06
306 55 24

6839.1
10912.1

4.25
6.78

I Premium Point---· ···· ···· I 40 fi4 37 .931
Rye Point.................
Davenport's Neck ··········· 40 56 36.40

I

40 56 49.96 . 73 43 47.37

40 56 06.91

I 303 45 09 351 13 34 I 73 41 4:L24 I 11 28 16
355 24 46 3'25 3516
18 39 53 63 38 42 310 40 18

12674.S 9061.8 7783.3 9517.5

9909.7 8511.6
10408.l

7.88 5.63

4.St
5.91

73 45 11.16
73 40 45.27 73 46 9.'l.8'2

I Delancey .............·... - .
HaITOw -- ---- ·············.
Townsend ·.····.·· -- - .· - -- ·

I Sands' Point. ·· __ ···....·.·. i Sands' Poi:ut. ..··.·.·.·.···.

Hurtleberry Island ·...·· -· - .

2531.2
5917.5

2'68.1 6471.2
QSl)0.5 ,

1.57 3.68
5.60 2.41 9.67 8.86
8.7l

9007_7 3t>l6.5 15566.1 14261.1 14013..l 12305.2
5.'154.8

4239.2
17022.61 15595.5
15324.6

.

~ .

40 53

22.081

Hurtleberry Island.........

40 53 16.131 73 45 ®.52
40 52 37 .491 73 38 56.42

I
1

272 30 16
315 19 13 272 03 52

130 45 47 9'~ 36 53

Harrow. -- .············ - - - .
Townsend ···.··..······ - - - .

135 2S 49 9'2 09 36
1)57 50 28 313 07 44 332 13 30

13456.6
607-l.6

7.6!

:Red Spring................

lfott's Point ·············. \ 40 51 21.S-2
1.\m

I

77 53 00 133 10 33
152 15 28

i

i

j Delancey...................

Sands' Point................

~--········-··-~\\ ~\)~~\).Iii\ n
\

73 40 14.32
<\a 41:..&.

217 59 :'>2 Red Spring .··.·. -········-·\ 38 00 54 ~ 4;, <\9 \&nu"' 1'o"m.t··········· _··· _ 00 <\7 4G ~ \<\" "~. Oo.\\,.~ri\()l>:'-. .......... ., ····· ·. 1,\\) \'l ~

I Delancey, ···..··· , ··...... ! I

=~:\I =~~
2962 A
4838.4
~_.\

3.45 5.13

3239 .6
5291.l
~l2Z.,,0

5.60 1.84
3.0\
a,\~

Name of station.
~-------~

;

Latitude.
o , ,,

( Mr>git!Jde.

{ __ Arlm __
j

u_th_._l,~.---T.~o_s_ta_oo_'_Il_ _ _ _ _B_ae_·k_azun_·_u_th_. / DiStance. / Di.stance. ,I Distanca.
1

.iauds' Point. Light-house .··
.

-1

i

Barker's Point.." ···. , ···.. I1

, I .(0 60 60.93 I 73 43 50.76 l 159
.(0 61 54.63 73 .(3 1 40 46 5iU6 j 73 42 31.06

I

i

o

,

~

,,

.661

o

,

"

o

,

"

i
I

M8lru·

65 O'.l 5S 138 31 15
!l8 83 23 30
)16

ltllrt 1siand...... · · · · ·· ··. .
Hurtleberry Island..........

235 01 00 318 30 13

J352.6 j 3355.9 , 3669.9
:

~-~

I
i

y,.n1,,.
I

Mila. 2.47 2.08

Hurtlebercy Island ········.. 1 339 25 41 Hart Island ·····.······ 263 21 58

··-·j
1·

4783.9 2738.0

6:l31.5 2994.2

1

2.97 1.70

Kissam .......... a

.......

1

! _High Island ·············.. ' 40 51 31.38
Beaconhill ·· · · . · . · -.····.·
S.S. Smith................
J.W.Mott ................
Cornwell ················.

I 73 46 47. 04 I
I
i
J

! 253 41

Oil 2ld 06 20

Onderdonk ~ ··.- - ·..··· - ··.. · Hurtle berry Island .······ - - .
Ouderdonk ···... · · · · · · · · · - ·

Harrow .··.·····...···.·... ! 73 43 60
38 07 50

6565. 9 5246.4
4053.5 10-253.1

7180. 3
5737 .3

4.08
3.26

217 07 49 295 42 41 354 10 39

l

at 00 57 115 47 00

443'J.8 11212.5

2.52 6.37
0.98 5.9'.l

~

40 49 57.93

73 40 19.65 73 44 01.06 73 42 55.61 73 43 05.09 ' 73 42 48.73

107 W 25
243 31 47 J4.1 33 52 242 47 lil 159 48 31 283 28 :ll 20 29 15 251 47 31

Onderdonk ................. : 174 10 40 High Island ····..····.···.· 1 287 34 59
Bea.con

1580.5 ' 1728.4 9520.l i 10410.9 6793.6 6705.2 4107.9 6335.7 7332.6
4492 .. 3

.
0

t::;

(")

40 48

34.~

Hill.. . . . . . · . . . . . . . .

63 34

~

High Island ·····..····.·. - · '
Beacon Hill . · · . · · · · · · · · · · · . !larker's Point..............

3'24 32 01

3.60 4.17
2.55 2.32
2.48 2.33

·

~

40 48 67.07

62 48 66 339 47 58

3741.8
3935.l 3746.6 3845.7

4091.9
43.58.0 4097.2
4205.G

40 50 :18.0S
40 48
~-06

Deacon Hin ...·....··...... i 103 30 00 S. S. Smith ···...·.···..· - ·. i 2002827 : Ouderdonk ..···· - . · ······.·

Hicks .···············..·.

I
\

174 05 14
248 13 25 112 27 43 248 13 17 138-59 4!:!

Cornwell .. _··.·· - ··...· - .·.
Beacon

714913 354 05 12

3721.8
2449.5 5833.0 2451.6 2436.6

4070.l
2678.7

2.39 2.31

Mitchell's Bluff'_ ··· _······. \ 40 49 28.50

I 73 41 56.74 !

1 Hill __ ·.·····..·... 68 14 29 IHart Island .··· - ···....· _·.. 292 25 13
Beacon Hill ········ -·-· ··..

6378.8
2681.0 2664.6

1.52 3.63
1.52

:Mitchell, (2) ··············· \ 40 49 28-46 \ 73

\

u

G6.84

Cornwell .··················

68 H 21 318 59 04

1.51

United States Coast Survetj.-G_eographical Positions.
..

Section lf.-Long Island Sountl. Sketch B, No. 2.
To station-

NII.Ille of station.
I

\

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0
I -II

, ,,

, ,,

I
'

_ ,/ Back azimuth.
0

Di$tance. Dll!tance. Dlstancf'.

, ,,

Great Neck .······.······· Hammond .···· ; ··········· Wilkins' Point ·.··········.

40 48 50.26 40 4S :11.52 40 47 42.50 40 50 19.57 40 51 18.96 40 45
~.93

73, 45 19.78 73 48 06.01 73 46 28-62 73 46 43.20 73 47 46-92

253 26 23 157 38 49 199 01 24 264 13 14 190 05 Sl 126 38 23 310 29 09 2f,6 ~ 00 290 54 00 259 47 5S

Beacon Hill. ··········.···. High Islimil ............... High Island ················ Gret1tNeck ................. HIP't !s!imd ................ Hammond .................. S.S. Smith ················· Harkar' s Point .············· Ouderdouk ................. Sauils' Poiut ................ Kissam ·················.·· Rodm1111's Neck ............. Jlarlrnr'a Point- .......... · · · Hart Island ··········.·····

73 29 42 337 37 42 19 0'2 10 84 15 07 lO 06 68 300 31 19 130 30 53 76 34 06

Metres. 7335.1 5313.3
5672.5 3915.1 55S"2.4 2844.2 5000.5 4156.3
11~.3

Yards.

Miles.

80-21.4

6876.l

4.56 3.34

6203.3 4281.4

S.53
!il.43 S.47 1.71

6104.8
:mo.3

City Island ·············· - ·
Rodman's Neck .···········
lf:Q.ejil

5468.4 4545-2
12456.0 7767.7 4780.5 12711.8 2242.5

S.11 !il.58
7.08 4.41
iU~ 7.~

no 58 57

79 51 13

7103.1 4371.5 11624.1 2060.6 1800.5 ll089.0 3073.4 l6'70.8 :wn.3

.-l' ·!"Pt' !'l'P PWPI' · !' P .-·'"

73 "" 56.9'2 73

231 29 05
159 58 JO 22"2 15 ~ 131 52 31 153

51 30 40 339 56 19
4~ 16 ~ 311 52 ()()

!tWlllW11 Point ............

40 50 OJ.71 40 45 156.19 40 47 58.52

« 49.63

196&.0
12126.6 3361.0

1.13

l-27

'ttle Ba.y Sida ............
"ta St.one Point ......... Old Perry Point ..·········

73 44 J8,56 73 48 55.48 73 49 41-17
7'.\
~ ~.~

53

3{)

Rodm11U'a Necll:- ············

235 06 42
2'23 56 39 2i8 09 20 258 OT 09

Kisslllll ............. ' . '' -...........
Hammond ........ ~···:~.·~····
W-llkins' Point .···· ,. · ., ,. ·.

333 51 14 fi5 07 50 43 56 55 98 JO 39 78 08 09

6.89 1.9l
2.16

4!8'17' .1
3802.7
~9.4

1-o.t
1.51 0.87

40 48

~1.36

300 10 30
~4.\~

Hammond.················. White Stone Point .·····.··.
lllg\l 1.a\11;ni\················ ca.~~l\~-~-~·' '\~'!:,··· ...... : ..

120 11 20
<\9
4.~

'i'ttt\ti

··'9T'l't Tl;·lll:'t't·'"'

'I····'"'

~()·~ '¥).~

31

"41)\ \\\

~

~\l~~

\

!1422.7

1401.5
3364,.9
~\.;,

1532.6
3079.7
~.()I

2.

a.

f
Un~ed Sm/a" (Joos~ .Brlritey.--OeogropAtdil Poskiotls:
Name of station.

fiecdon fI.:........(J0nnectictd~

·

JS'Jaclt 11, No. !J·

Latitude.

Longitude.

.Azimuth.

To. stationSands' Point................ Hurtleberry Island.......... Sands' P(lint.... · . . . · . . . . · . . Hart Island.... . . . . . · . · · · · . Sands' Point................ Hart Island.... . . · . . · . . · · · . White Stone Point........... Old Ferry-Point............ Onderdonk ..··.·. ...··. ··.. Wheatley..................

Back azimuth. Distance. { Distance. { Distance.
Q /
/I

011'

0 1 11

01#

Old Hen..................
Execution Rllcks ····· - - · · · · Execution Buoy............ College Point.............. Success...................
CoirNECTICUT.

40 52 20.46 40 52 42.24 40 52 41.93 40 47 35.8.9 40 45 36.43

73 42 28.59 73 43 5-5. 97 73 43 48.58 73 50 52.12 73.42 06.23

35 44 4!1 115 29 14
309 41 52 34 42 "8 312 46 17 36 31 59 255 39 43 ~ 19 40 2ll2 14 59 244 50 38

215 44 36 2!>5 Z1 55 129 42 36 214 41 35 132 46 56 216 30 41 75 41 15 47 20 22 22 16 13 64 55 18

Metres, 791.8
~2.0

Yards. 86-5.9 4365.5
2-250.5

Jllilu.
0.49 2.48

2057.9 4566.0 1921.4 4660.0 2821.4 2069. 8 7017.4 11323.1

499-:l.1
2101.2 5096.0
3085.4 2263. 5

1.28 2.84
1.19 2.90 1.75 1.29 4.36 7.03

~
0 ~

~

7674.0 12382.6

LoafhilL....... .·. ··· ···.
Goodsa1I. -··· ····-· ···· ····
Centre

41 19 32.29 41 15 56.06 41 18 58.20 4116 21.75 41 15 11.05

73 29 35.02 73 24 35.42 73 22 37 .79 73 29 49.00 73 19 21.26

289 16 41 352 12 18
42 09 50 133 46 08 35 00 33 96 13 Z1 276 10 02 342 53 17 146 5.1.16
2t)3 23.\it)

Tashua Hill................ Bald Hill................... Bald Hill.... · · . . . · · · · . · · . . . Loafhill ..·..· ···-· --······ Bald Hill.................. Loafhill · · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · . . ·

109 26 31 172 13 06 2-22 Cf/ 21 313 42 49 214 56 46 276 08 49

22041.4 12605.9 7849.0 9646.8 13959.5 9759.1 7340.9 6918.0

24103.8 13785.4 8583.4 10549.5 15265.7 10672.3 80"27 .8 7565.3

13.70 7.83 4.88 5.99 8.67 6.06

Reading............

High Ridge ················
Wheeler'e Hill ······.······

I

96 13 Z1 Goodl!lili '···-··· ······.····· Bald Hill .·.· ·-·- ·-··-· ··.. , 162 54 14 326 51 08 83 27 01

4.56
4.30 5.20

Centre Reading ·.··········· Tashua Bill············.··.

8367.0 ...9149.9

6563.1

.7177.2

4.08

Unit.ed States Coast Survey.-GeograpkU:al Positions.
Name of station. Goodridge .················ Barnhill ·················. Pine-swamp Hill ............ Riggs' Hill .··············. Great Hill East ..········.. Hooper's Latitude.
0

Section IL-Connecticut.
To station-

Sketch B, No:··

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0

, ,,

, ,,

, ,,

I

Back azimuth.
0

, ,,

I

Distance. Distance. , Distance.
Metres.

41 19 33.48 41 20 38.02 41 21 06.70 41 24 41.76 41 21 51.26 41 24 54.06 41 22 51.68 41 26 24.16
'

73 18 29.05 73 10 46.59 73 16 09.05 73 07 28.53 73 06 41.17 72 59 43.&1 73 03 10.21

77 36 324 49 31

:u

Centre Reading ······.····.. Tashua Hill .····.·····.···. Goodridge .····.···········. Tashua Hill ........·....... Barnhill. ' ····.············. Tashua Hill .·.········..··. Pine-swamp Hill...···..····. Tashua Hill .·····..···.·...
I

257 33 48 144 52 01 260 25 ~ 210 17 15
96 45 45

sg.i:2.8 9208.0 10902.5 10812.0 7547.7 10421.5 13793.7 19626.7 6135.3 5373.1 11219.1 1080-2.2
689-i.4 6105.1

Yards. 6477.0 10069.6
119'22.6 118'23.7

Niles.
3.68 5.72
~-Tl

80 30 34
30 19 50 276 42 12 348 40 45 61 18 00 30 52 13 68 24 55 168 11 13 59 51 59 88 01 46 119 31 46 231 47 OS 42 52 47 334 55 05 184 03 36 82 50 5G 84 49 46 48 53 33
~0-250 ~ .\~ l~

6.72

168 41 43 241 12 17 210 47 ~ 248 2"2 13

8253.9 11396.6 15084.4
21463-~

4.69 6.47
8.57
~-20

Barnhill ....··.·.·.·.······. Riggs' Hill .·.········.·.···. Great Hill ~ast-. - "" ···· - ·. Riggg' Hill..···-·· , ..·····... Riggs' Hill...··········.···. Hooper's Hill ..·. , ·......... Riggs' Hill..·····.··....··.· Peck's Hill .······.·····.·..

348 IQ 39
239 47 21 267 56 38 299 28 55 51 49 25 22"2 51 23
15456~

6709.4 5;,'75.9 12268.9 1181'!.0 7539.5 66i6.4 4713.2 7913.2

3.81

3.34
6.97
-~,7i

Hill ...... ,. ...·..

Peck's Hill ..··..·····.··..
Chestnut-tree Hill ····..··.. IDcock, (2) ·.·····.·······. West Rock Ridge ·········.

4.28 3.79 2.68 4.50 1.99 - 2.86 9 ~-3, 3.- 35 -~
3.'2&

- 73

05 22.24

4309.9 723G.1 3-208.2 4607.7

41 23 10.32 41
4.1
~

72 59 53.42

Hill ..·.···.....··. I Hooper's Peck's Hill ..····.·····..·..

4 03 48 252 48 51 264 47 53 228 51·37

3508.4

5038.8
421~-l

Q&.35
Yl -~l

n w 58.45
noo~.w

i Hicock, (2) ·.····.·.···..··.

Hooper's Hill .·.·.··-······..

3%1.7

Co\\\ns' 1lill ······ , , ··.··..

'!(}

\West Roe\t Ridge ............ 115 05 0-l \_&) -\Ii) 'M, Uoo~et'l\ 1:ll\\.··. " .........

\

5395.0
5283_2 \

5899.8
5Tl7 .5
;Y-)l"3.~

'll¥'>-'\

\-1 \

Name of station.
0 , "

/ Longitude.
0 ,
It

/

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To stationWestRockRidge ...··.·.... Collins' Hill ______ ---··----· Hnddenston's Hill.. ..... ---Mount Carmel. ..... --------

(Ba.ck azimuth. / Distance. / Distance. f Distance.
. O ' " -

Huddenston's Hill.. - - - - - - -.
Sandfurd, (near Mt. Carmel).

41 26 54.73 41 28 05.31 41 27 45.12 41 29 50.45 41 27 13.42

7'2 58 04.51

335 34 23 70 47 58
37 07 24
308 20 08 329 21 55

155 35 07 250 46 30 217 06 37 128 22 39 149 22 55 2810341
232 23 43 171 44 23 278 02 40 246 31 39

Metres. / Yards. 3703.41 4049.9 3445.6 3768.0

M"des.
2.33 2.14 1.70 4.20 2.58 2.02

72 56 53.50 72 54 36.34 72 53 51.87 72 48 48.11 72 55 22.05 72 57 IO 33 72 59 18.61 72 58 31.84 72 57 55.97
73 03 08.29

273ll.6 1 j 2986.1 6753.l 7::185.0 4146.1 3243.1 5317.0 7511.9 lla76.7 6508.2
5064.2 3462.7

Mount Ephraim-----·-----Cheshire Spire.............
Wallingford Spire..........

101 05 12

ISandford .······· ___________
Sandford ····.·· -··--------· }fount Carmel.. ··.. -------· Sandford .······ -·--·-·----Mount Carmel.-------·----Mount Ephraim------------Mowit Carmel... --- ---- ---Mount Ephraim. __ ···· _. · · · . Mowit Carmel.. ·· ·--------·

Mount Carmel.. ·..· ·-------

i

4534.0 3546.6
5814.5 8214.8

52 25 43 351 43 52

3.30 4.67
7_07 4.04

98 08 01 66 34 29
192 05 19
246 25 38 240 16 41 285 01 25

12441.2 7117.2
5538.0 3786.7 4499.4 6439.9

Dickerman................

41 25 04.59
41 26 39.02

12 05 50 66 27 09
6() 18 23 105 04 07

3.15 2.15
2.56 3.66

-~

No Name.................

4114.4 5888.9
4062.4 6034.5

Lebanon..................
Slate Hill. ...·......·. ··-Moqnt Prospect............ Summerville...............

41 26 24.19
41 2-2 25.78

306 45 34 7 42 10

West Rock Ridge - ·----- ---Hicock, (2) ...... ·----- .... West Rock Ridge .... --- -- - . Hicock, (2) .....· ------ ---· Hicock, (2) ...··. ---· --·--· Chestnut-tree Hill. . - · _·.·· __ Hioock, (2)------ ---·-·-··Chestnut-tree Hill....... · · · .

126 47 07 187 41 47 23 47 36 305 55 59
195 54 20 250 52 38

4442.5 6599.1 5882.5 2560.2 10873.6 11933.7
73-2L7 12411.0

2.52
3.75 3.34 1.45
6.JB

203 46 34 125 56 53 15 55 38 70 57 29 2'22 31 25 164 06. 04

5379.2 2341.1
9943.2 10958.3
6698.0 11349.1.

41 28 20.31
4120 30.34

.6.81
4.16 7.05

42 33 34 3:l4 04 40

United State_s Coast S1irvcy.-G-cogfrt:pkica.l ;.Posit·ii,i,11k·· ~ ~cttion: JL....:....<;Jo_n.11:c~t·i~ut. · ·Sketclt ·B, No. 2. ·
..

...

Nn.me of station... Skligcrnt';. ~ · ······ ·: ······.

·----------, , " "
0 0

tn.tit1111ii.

J:.011git.uclo ..

,Azimuth:
O·

To station.·

Back azimuth.
0

l?i;t.nnce. \ . Distance: Distm1ce.
Metres.
l'tmfs.

I"·''
..

,

.

!'

Newtown··· :·: ~ ·············
Moose Hill ·East ·······.··· Rock-house Hm~·~ ~ ~ ~; ~ ·. ~ · ~. Blackburn Hill ·········· ."., White-'.Hill Churoh ········· Mociso Hill ···············. South Whitehill .··········. Dooth ·· -.. -··· ······.····. Hawley''···'·'"·'",'·· ···· lllu11rou Tull Spia·o ·····.····

.

41 24 48.32

73 02 48,56 73 Ol 44.41 73 06 35.21 73 08 01.93

's9 21.56 . 45 2'114 75 2'2 59 ·.43 11 55 294 49 59 201 15 :i4 :194 JO 00 319 27 ]:J 223 03 3'l 83 05 0:1 100 57 12 46 26 40 95 42 J!J 31 4:1 52 89 39 42 5ti 11 15 223 3!i 18 70 00 :l:l 97 54 1 08 48 86 40 22
!il-1

Riggs' Hill ..·· ~ ·········.·. Grc11t Hill East ·············

269 24 5i 225 24 43

Miles".
4.ll<I 4.71 .5.13 .6.26 3.26 2.90
UIG

65112.1 7585.0 8'258.3 1Q074.2

711.0.5 . 8294.7 9031.0 11016.8· 5737.5 51U3.8 3t52.8 3161.2 . 8720~1 7324.7 )1827 .0 12!J01.f> 10302.2 S·ISiU G:lii5.4 l:l02ii.:I 711:10.li 6:167.8 6000.1 7410.7 9737.9
IJ!i·I0.11

41 25 49.47
..

Riggs' Hill° .··········.·····. 255 19H G1·1:11t Hill East .···········. 223 08"40 l'o:ck's llill ..· ~ ~.' .·.·...·... Cluistnut-tree Hill. ········.· Riggs' J-iill .······· ·· ·······. Grnat Hill East ············· Riggs' Hill .·····.·········· ·· Pinc-sw11mp Hill .·····.····. Pine-s,"i·amp Hill ··. ~ ···.··.· Tashua Hill ...··.·......... Goodridge ·.··········.····. 'l'1Lshua Hill ...·....... , ..·.
Moose Hill·.············.··· T1Lshun. Hill ....·..·..·..·.·
·'

41 24 03.18 41 23 02.54 41 21 32.95 41 20 00.35 41 19 09.32 41 19 10.51 41 16 40.03' 41 19 15.06 41 rn r.G.41

114 52 iQ 21 IG 27 14 J:I 42.) 130 :n 25 · 4:.1 OG OG 2Ci:! 01 54 280 51 33 22(i 22 36 27;, 37 r.:1 21.1 .u 56 2!i!) :Iii 5!i 2:16 06 :14

" 5246.6. 46li7 .1 . ..
.. .:1
3157.4 28£10.?: . 7974.0

1.80 4.!la 4.IG 6.72 7.36 5.85

73 11 22.98 73 08. 32.13 73 H 45.91 73 07 36.0] 73 10 46.07 73 14 35.33 73 12 06.74

. OO!JS.O
10815.G n8r,2.5 0420.7
775!i.3

4.82
3.!il 7.411
:l.!18
a.(!2

r.8.11.<i 1J!llO.li (i<\10.7 5822.!I a486.7 6776.6

.46

South Wliitohill ...···...··.. T1LShlUL Hill ....·····..····· Gu111l ri1lgo ·················· 'fugJma Hill ..··. , ·.. ; ......
G·:.oilriilge.: _, ·· ···· " · ~ .··.·· 'J'n·hun U ill ················

4:l

:11 24

24!) 57 58
211 r.2 12

181 08 44 266 36 09
2lM 02 00

3:41 4.21

.

o:i

"~

sern.o

8904.7

r·· .sa

ll.4:l

-

Name of station.

I

Latitude.
0

, ,,

l

Longitude.
0

,

I

Azimuth
0
II

I

I

To station-

Back azimuth. Distance.
0

II

,
Wbeeler's Hill ..·· -·-····--Tashua Hill __ ······ _······· Wheeler's Hill ············· _ Tashua Hill--·· ······ --·--·

, ,,

I

,
Metres.

I

Dist.ance. Distance.
Yards.

Milu,

uH. ···--· ·---·· ··-8slwaChureh ·-· -·-· ----

41 17 44.51 41 17 10.88 41 }.{ 59.19 41 17 10.75 41 18 08.66 41 16 28.03 41 18 47.Z'/. 41 19 27.03 41 18 26.89

73 15 24.36 73 15 18.71 73 17 50-42 73 18 39.36 73 20 52.17 73 29 32.83 73 20 44.22 73 26 51.37

49 22 11 345 49 44 56 48 19 343 27 58 117 15 49 74 35 48 14 47 50
297 55 24

229 19 35 165 50 13

7266.4 4107.2 6747.2 3071-6 18430.7 15249.5 3818.7 6275.0 12429.8 14410.3 6991 4 7005.0 12421.5 15380.2 3808.8 7051.1
2828.3

7946.3 4491-5 7378.5 3359.0 20155.3 16676.4 4176.0 6862.1 13592.9 15758.7 7645.6 7660.5 13583.8 16819.3 4165.2 7710.9 3093.0 459"2.3 10-290.5 3006.4 5973_3 !fJ64.4

4.51 2.55 4.19 1-91 11.45 9.47
!l.37 3.90

236 45 39 163 28 23
297 08 02

earon Spire ··············
Dead-tree Hill .······.····.

Loafhill .· ·-. - ···· - -· ···· -- · BaldHill ······· ·.··- ·--· ---·
Wheeler's Hill ·············· Tashua Hill ········ __ ·.·· _. Loafhill. ·-·-·· --·- ---- --·Bald Hill .·····.··········· _ Gooilsall ······. ·----·-----Bald Hill. .··········..····· LoafhilL ··················. Bald Hill .······.······· _._. Loafhill. ·-···· ··--·· ·----High Ridge ···············. Loafhill········ ; ··········. High Ridge ..········.······
Goodsall .····· ··-· ·····- ····

254 28 52 194 47 22 117 58 01 281 55 39 225 30 28 98 08 10 166 18 55 276 22 21 2"23 45 35 272 26 29 215 51 46 44 29 46 156 45 52 108 43 04 143 56 16 138 25 40 32 11 09

. .

:Ridge..···..··..··
Id, (Presbyterian ch.)

102 01 27 46 35 25 278 04 55 346 18 08 96 28 08 43 50 35 9"2 28 17 35 53 46
224 28 50

7.72 8.95 4.34 4.35 7_72 9.56 2.37 4.38 1.76 2.61
5..85

Reailiag Spire········· - · - - Picket'a-:Ridge ············ _
.Baler's Hill ···············
p Btrick····················

·

cc ..

.. "33.80
ord ··················

I

73 31 00.24

336 45 08 288 38 49 323 55 26 318 23 57 212 10 23

4199.4 9410.0 2749.2 5462.2 2985.l

73 30 58.56 73 30 57.30

High Ridge - ················

1.71 3.39 l.85

41 14 59.8-i

Bald Hill .·· -·············· High Bidge ·················

Uiiiud States Co<Ut Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of st.ation.
Hayes' Ridge..............
:Wills ·· __ ····· __ ······· _..

Section IL-Long Island Sound.
To stationBald Hill.. ·.......... --- --· Hanford ...···... ---- ...·.. Bald Hill................... Hayes· Ridge............... Bald Hill................... Hayes' Ridge...............

Sketch B, No. 2.

Latitude.
0
I
#

Longitude.
0
I H

1 · Azimuth.
0
I II

1 Back azimuth. \ Distance. Distanee. Distance.
0
I N

41 13 43.75 41 12 12.86 41 10 39.74 · 4110 39.63,

.73 30 55.73 73 30 23.91 73 30 54.46 73 30 54.96

295 49 33 179 06 23 249 28 59 165 11 36

115 51 15 359 06 2-2 69 30 20 345 11 15 42 08 27 359 42 01

Metres. 3988.2 2145.6
3041.5

Ya.rds.

4361.4 2674.4

Mil1JS. 2.48 1.52

3325.l
3171.5 5805.9 6207.0 5817 .1 6210.6

2900.l 5309.l 5675.9
5319.4 5679.2

1.89 1.80 3.30 3.53 3.31 3.53

pravenbush .··.. .··· ..··.. CravenTroo...............
LONG ISLAND SOID.'D. FromHousatonicril7ertcestw'd. Bennet....................
~onl

2"i2 06 46 179 42 0-2
22"2 10 59

179 49 09

Bald Hill.................... 42 12 40 Hayes' Ridge............... 359 49 09

fll

41 16

37"~72

73 05 45.56 73 06 45.91 73 13 03.89 73 08 50.56
73 04 37 .76

311 26 50 242 35 56 2-28 03 32 186 01 14 230 37 40 299 16 36
267 04 25

South :Milford............... West Rock................. South Milford............... Bennet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

131 30 02 62 41 30 48 07 23 6 01 53 50 42 30 119 20 47 87 09 36 3a 24 51 199 51 30 255 48 53
176 41 11)
100

90-21.0 13180.0 10979.0 13382.0 13194.1 1010-2.6 11081.0

9865.1 14413.3 12006.3 14534.2 14428. 7 11047.9 12121.1

5.60 8.19
6.82 8.31
8.20 6.28 6.89 4.86 5.46 3.77
~LOl

~

Point ········ -···

41 09 26.27 41 12 06.58 4:1 13 05. 95 41 13 M.10
4.\. 1A ~-~

Sherwood-·-··............ f)tratford Hill. _· _ .·..·. _- . . Gunn - ···· -·-- ···········.
()\q Ya.nm.~--- ········ ----

Bennet.................... Stratford Point.............
South Milford............... Bennet.................... Stratford Point . · · · · · . . · . · . . Stratford Hill...............
~ttatl:m:i\ Bill ........· ~----·

213 22 52 19 52 52 75 51 30
'3'>5

u \)\'}

~.~4.s

G\lllll. ........... ··--·· ······

\l'i

~

\

;.;\;.;\
3'235.I) U'319 -<>
?ES] ·7

()911) .8

3.93

Name of station.

. /

Latitude.
0
I N

---------1
Chestnut ...· --·--·-------Stratford Ligh~hou.se .····· Stratford Bea.con .····· - ·· -Stratford Spire, (cock) ····· Stratford Spire, (hen). · · · · · . Charles' Island Poplar ···· - .

I

41 14 11.07

1 1 1 Azimqth. To station{Back azimuth. Distance.) .Distance. Dist.ance. l------'--1-----------i , 1_~·- - · - - l - - - Q 0 I # . o ' " Mares. / i;p°Ms. Miks. 285 49 09 73 13 54.41 4.57 Stratford HilL. ··· --·- ·-----.1 105 52 29 7$5.7 '.8044_0 259 55 00 4.35 Oldl:'anild ·----------·----·\ 79 58 15 6995.0 764_,?.5

Longitude.
I ,fl

/

41 09 04.77 \ 73 05 52.95 ) 220 54 46 118 13 41 41 09 44.65 I 73 05 54.61 41 11 17 .0-2 \ 73 07 29.94 41 11 30 .42 41 11 25.45 73 07 31.27 73 02 58.79

South.Milford.-----·-------·\ 40 58 06 Stratford Point--------- ··.. 298 13 08
1

10585.9 1401.61 9717.0 1323.0 3'2A9.0 10441.0 10208.0 3477.0 6!49.0 5124.0 7233.0

u5i~:'.4

1532.7

6.58 0.87
6.04 O.S-2

I

225 50 35

l
I

64 37 36
150 47 52 120 58 29
119 04 36 147 55 36

South.Milford ..·· -----------[ Stratford Point .· - - ·· - ····· Stratford HilL. ··· ---· --- --Chestnut. ···· ___ - -- - ··· - · · · Chestnut. .·········.. -----Stratford Hill.. ··· -·---·-··Stratford Point .··· - ·· - ·· - ·· Gunn .... ---·--·--·-· ·· _

244

45 53 55 37 02

10626.2 1446.8
4209.1 11418.0 11163.2
38W.3

330 46 58 300 54 16 299 00 24 3'27 54 44 235 08 13

2.39 6.49
6.34 2.16
4.01 3.18

0

.

~ t:;
(')·

Milfhrd Spire ············· - 'I 4113 3L23

I

I·

73 03 12.85

l

55 10 42 153 16 20 230 41 19 107 14 26

··-1
-!

333 15 15

7052.4 5603.5 7009.8
2"~.9

Prindle ········· --------·--\ 50 43 58 Gunn ·.·. ------·--·-----··· 2B7 13 30 Stratford Point.. ·.·· - .·· - ·· Sherwood .· __ ··· __ ·· _ ·· _. _. 79 24 27 354 29 05 356 00 19 32 3.5 54 78 37 25 354 45 43

2072.U
8329.0 6511.0
6694.0 10097.0 8373.2 6629.5

·

4.49
1.29

BlnekR.oek,(1) ···········. , 41 08 36.48 I 73 12 37 .06 I 259 20 36 174 29 23 Blaek Rock Lighirhouae _··. Black Rook, (2) ···········. Bridgeport North Spire-··-41 08 30.11

I ! 73 12 43.87 1 176 00 32
212 33 20

9108.3 7120.2 7320.4 11041.8 9151L7 7249.8 7034.4 J 4625.8

5.18 4.05

Sherwood ...· --·- - ·..···· -Stratford Hill. ······ - ·· - ···. Stratford Point.. ---·--·---·· Sherwood ..··. __ .····.·····.

4.16 6.27
5 21 4.12
4.00 2.63

41 08

32.561

73 12 37 .94 73 11 06.36

258

3!~

33

174 46 00

4110 35.20

289 17 29
30 00 19

Stratford Poiut .··· - · - ···· - - . 109 20 20 Blaeli:Rock,(1)..... ..·· .··· 1 209 5!118

6432.5 4230.0

United Statc1 Co(Llt 87trlJC1j.-Gcograplt.ical P08itiom. Section IL-Long IJand Sound.
l
Name of station.

Elketth B, No. 2.

\

La.titude.
0
I II

I

Longitude.

I

Azimuth.
Q. , ,,

I
I I
I
I

To station-

Back azimuth. Distance. \ Distance.
0
I II

i
\

9

, ,,

Bridgeport Middle Spire .··. \ 41 10 32.33 Bridgeport South Spire ..··.. 1 41 10 00.07 Johnson ·······.··.·····.·· Milford Point ·············.

73 11 04.66 73 11 03.78 73 09 43.91

136 17 3) 213 22 57
288 07 08 31 49 33

l I Sherwood.. . . · · . . · . · . · · · . · .

1~~~~~~~~~~11~~~~~.:~~~-·-~~~-1-~~-

I

Distance. M"tl·.

Metres.
4021.5 5673.3
ti:fU.9 4125.2 4829.0 4296.0
~-7

Stratfurd Hill. . . · . · . . . · · · · · . Stratfurd Point.. · . · . · . · · · · · . Black Rock, (1). .·· ..· ·····.

316 16 01 33 24 06
108 08 57 211 48 33

Yards. 4379.8 6204.2
6916.7 4511.2 5280.9 4698.0
8975.7 9632.7 5493.0 7344.4
5220.7 7961.2

2.00
3.53

a:93
2.56

41 JO 02.41
41 09 47.10 41 10 55.06

56 43 10 285 0-2 18

I Black Rock, (1)....... ·····.

I StratiOrd Point..... · · . · · · · . ·

236 41 09 105 04 07

·

3~00

2.67

w

04 19.25

I

215 22 19 134 09 22 244 19 16 309 51 22

: Stratford Hill....... . . . . . . . . Black Rock,(l)....... ·····.

S. MilimL:···· .. ·.·... ....

35 24 31
314 06 23 64 21 24 129 52 25

5.10
5.47
3.12 4.17 2.97 4.52

8808.5
50-23.0

73 16 18.23 73 15 22;22

=: ~~
2 41 48
290 49
~

I
I

I l Sherwood ..··...··· ~. · · . · · .

6716.0 4794.0 7280.0
4250.0 3904.0 2902.0 29-23.7 8255.0
fili23.0

t ~~-~~~~~~!~::::::::::::

:

~:

Fairfield...................
Fairfield Spire.............

41

()9

21.47

73 15 13.62 73 14 41.&l 73 16 57.23
73 15 13.78
73
~

I Pine CI'et'kPoirrt, {l}.. ···.·.

, Black Rock, (1)..... ··· · ·.· ·

182 41 42 HO i>O 00 198 56 27 88 11 01 132 57 46 79 49 23 55

4647.7 4269.3
3173.5 3197.3
0027.4
603!L8

2.6t
2.43 J.80 1.82

41 08 itl.49
41 11 34.88
41 07 11.46
41. (){; 4."l .~

19 00 55 268 15 03 312 54 55 259 46 49 235 29 14.
163

}'&vemeJJt. ·. · ·. . .·· ··· ·. . .
Pine Cteek Point, (2).. .. . · .
Cinu~---····· ······ ..·...

I
!

IBlack Pine Creek Point, (1).... ·.·. Rock, (1)....... .····.
1

Black Rock, (2). .··· ·.·. ··· . Sherwood..... . · . . · · . . · · . . . .

i.13 3.43
2.7-1 5.21

ro

\ Blac"f Roe\., (2) ······ - - - ..· - \

ro

59

43

'\avement ............ ······
~e Creek I'oiut, (.2)........ . ·~"'""'ll>Oi....................

343 29 35.

4416.0 8474.0 \
7&>0.0

4829.2 9'266.9
8365.8

40.42

2.64 2.5 51.
~\.\)·~J\';?.

84 29 26
',\ll~OO

\

\.~.(}·

1.1239.'l

Name of statioa.

l ~~~~- {. Longitud~
41 IO 57.

Gorham..... · · · . . . · · . . · · . .
:Merwin...................
j

791

7;

~ ~-63'

[·~-.Azim~·-uth~·~-1--~~-T.-o~st-a_no_n--~~~~~B~ac-k_llZIIll~·~uth~·,__Dist_·_an~e-~_1 _Dist~·-an~ee_._,_Dist_._·_a11C~e
0
I 'I

0

I

"

Pavement ····.····.·······. Compo .···.·.·...··.·...·..

82 49 43 153 29 39 141 26 20 222 20 49 183 29 34
246 42 24

Metru. 9122.8 8627.0
5987.0 7885.0
6468.0 4491.0

Yards. 9976.4 943t._2
6547.2 8622.8 7073.2 4911.2

M"Jes. 5.67 5.36

41 14 06.65
41 ]5 04.19 41 10 14.84 41 07 56.69 41 08 46.82 41 10 51.42 41 09 01.00

73 19 37 .:JJ 73 16 40.27

321 24 34 42 23 19
3 29 45 66 44 21

Pavement ··· "·............. Gorham.................... Pavement ·················. Merwin ·...··.··.··.·.····.
Sherwood.·················· Black Rock, (1 ) ·······.····.

3.72 4.00
4.02 2.79 2.88 2.99 3.16 4.07
2.48

I
!

~~ ~ubbel ···············.
Thorp ···············.···.

Jackson ........... ~ .......................... . .

73 15 16.891 2-21 56 42 309 08 35 13 1s 48.98 73 16 22.29 73 17 10.39 73 19 16.42 73 20 00.31 73 18 14.72 73 22 06.!rJ

415810
129 IO 00

I I

4635.0 4805.0 5090.0 6554.0 3984.0 3755.0 3886.0 1223.0
5463.0 2084.0

5068.7 5254.6 5566.3 -7167.3
4356.8 4106.4

288 39 12 212 24 19 181 20 54 65 38 41

Pine Creek Point, ( l ) ....···.
Gould ·····················. Gould ·····.·············· · -

108 41 29 32 25 58 1 20 57
245 37 05

Mill Hill ·· .,; ··..··.....··..
:Bnulley. ··· ··· ·· ··· · ·· · · · . Adams ···· ··· · ·· · · · · · · · · . . Leri Hubbel...............

Thorp ····.··········.···. Fairfield . · · · · · · · · · . · · · · · · . . Gould .· · · . . · · · · . · · · . . · · . · . . Gould . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · · . Thorp · · · · · . . · · · · · · · · . . · · · .

2.33
2.42 0.76

. =

315 32 06 263 16 10
229 28 07 342 06 53

135 33 24 83 16 44 49 30 04 162 07 11 128 35 is 57 18 00

4249.6 1337.4 5974.2 2279.0 2375.2 1328.7
2316.2 4414.71 4322.9

3.40
1.30

41 08 39.71
41 00 53.07

I

308 34 31 : 237 17 31 157 50 32 265 15 37

Thorp · ·· · · · . · · · · · · · · · . · · · · Adams ·.···..·····.··.. ---· Thorp . _· · · · . · · · · . . · · · · · · · . Pine Creek Point, (I)........

2127.0 1215.0 2118.0 4037.0
3953.0 9956.0

U15 0.75
1.32 2.51
2.46 6.19

Fanns Point...............
Handfurd ······. ·····. ···.

337 so os 85 17 30 332 21 00 20 28 47

41 09 04.24

l

152 21 51 200 27 09

i Gorba_m..... . . · · · · . · . · . . . · .
i

Mennn ······ ···· ······ ···.

10887.6

United States Coast Surve1;.-Geographical Positio12s.
Name of station.

Section IJ._:_Long Island Sound.
To station-

Shieh B, No. 2.

Latitude.
0
I
ii

Longitude.
0
I II

1

----I
' l
I
I
0 /
II

Azimuth.

Brown ······ ·-----·----- ..

41 09 59 29 41 04 58.89 41 06 55.76 41 06 0-2.19 41 04 53.79

73 25 27 .62

I

289 55 36 237 35 08

I ·I I Handford ...... ------------1 109 57 47
0

I

\ Distance. / I Back azimuth. I Distance.. Distanee.
''

i

i Gorhlllll--···-----······-·--1
Pine Creek Point, (2) .·..···. Cnmpo -- ····-- -···-· ··--·Cumpo --·· ········.· --···· Gorham .. -···.·.... - - _. - -··

57 36 2d 63 12 32

Metres. j l'ards. \~iles. 4976.0 5441-6 \ 3.G9 3367.0 368'2.0 2.09

Cockenoe 's Island. - __ ·.··. -

73 21 00.661 243 08 44 188 01_ 01 73 25 11-83
1

8 01 14
9-2 19 02

9063.0 3384.0

I

St. John .···.·.······.. ·--Nash .·····..······.·····.
Calf!.pasture Island ···· - ···.

16 04 i 198 20 16
272

18 21 25

6336.o 7865.0
1667.0 6706.0 45.33.0 5111-0 12173.0 79'23.0 6807 .0 13471-0 7556.0 133'2.0 6207.0 946.4

I

9911.0 3700.6

5.63 2.10 3.94 4.89 1-04 4.17 2.82 3.18 6.35
4_92

mis.9 8600.9 1823_0 7333.5 4957.2 5589.2 13312.0 8664.4 7443_9 14731-5 8263.0 1456.6
6787.8 1035.0

73 25 21.57 73 22 43.50

l

187 49 44 257 56 06 219 17 40 137 23 39 29'2 57 31 248 00 55 207 32 28 143 16 17 216 20 58
267 53 08

St. John-····-····-········ Cnmpo ···· ---· ·········.··

7 49 51 77 59 11
39 19 01 317 2"2 02
113 02 47 68 04 22

Cumpo .······· ···---······ St. John-······ .···....··..
Cumpo ···· _········ - ···.·· Gorham .... _.·. -· ·... _.·.. Cumpo ···· -···-···--···-·BrushyRidge .·.·...·.·.·.·. Cnmpo .·..···· _···· _··· __ ·. Copp's Island .·. _- .... _·.... 1
Cumpo -- ----·- .·..·. ---·--

'Bi:nsJiy Ridge -·.· - ···.·. - ·.
Copp'slshmd.............. Ramlshmd................ Chimon'slsland...... ··.··.

41 09 21.761 73 28 40.90 41 03 31-87 41 03 73 22 55.36 73 23 52.41 73 23 09.20

27 33 57 32312 29

4.23

8.37

30.291
I I

36 23 04 87 53 45
34 01 15 160 02 14

4.70 0.83 3.86 0.59 8.&1 5.26
4.4{) '

41 04 00.71

213 59 37
340 0-2 05

Ta.·emlsland .···...··.···. ,\41 03 36.571\7325 00.72 \

~1'.wooa ······. ------ --··

\

.

.

.\1.

oa

~-oo

73

~ 4A.13 \. 100 36 ~

~ ~i ~ :\g~~::::::::::::::::::::i\
~-~~

\ Copp's Island.-······-

-····-1

1

9 ]5 49 45 54 21

13i89.0 \' 15079.2 8461.0 9244.7
7087 J,)
~M--U

. C<>v>!'v. µ.~ ... - ··--·· ··----

1kusby 'It.\uge.- _· - · - ._ ·.····· -

4746 .9
\Yi~-';}

.,_w

Name of lftation.

(

Latitude.

Longitude.
0
t II

i
1

Azimuth.
0
f

To mitfon-

b--k · th ( .vac aznnu · {

I D':c.. In:~ .....~ m<llDCe. I .v,,.<ance. :'LJ'"'tance.

:;: _ . Pohrt, (2) ······ --1:,-

-4-~-00-,-~-,.-36-

II

73 33 57 .31 : 295 01 42 343 0-2 31 73 28 20.75 73 31 04.27 73 24 50.54 73 27 08.16 73 25 01.56 73 33 46.16 73 36 30. 73 73 41 16.06 73 45 53.61 73 40 02.71 326 17 18 64 35 55 309 07 29 64 35 11

I Eaton ....····. ------------

,---~------1·

o

' "

. Met es, . Yards.
16629.9 17619.5

r--;.ik:
I
I
10.33 10.9'> 8.06 5.41 8.83 2.78 9.38 5.78
Ii

115 08 44 : Sheep .·············.·····. , 163 04 54 Eaton ......... -------····· Green1fichPoiDt,(2) ....····

18086.0 / 18868.2 l

Long Neck ···. ~ ··········. j! 410208.56 · Shippan Point ············.

i

i

146 llO 40 244 3215

i

41 01 09.67

Sheffield Island Light-houre ·· ! 41 0-2 52.81

Fish Island .·..·····.····. ·

I
I

32 07 218 51 25
51 47 53 335 36 00 348 03 22 68 29 19 270 41 08 213 52 49 244 15 45 324 05 37 264 47 28 2-26 40 13 324 08 50 203 36 45 338 04 39 14_28 40

1~

; Eaton .... _ ... _ .......···.. ! 129 12 38 i Greenuich Point, (2) ..······ i 244 33 17 ! I \Gorham .................... \ 7 33 03 Cumpo ..·· ··---······-----: 38 54 00 LongNeck ................. 1 2314710 Eaton .·.·· ________________ i 155 38 34
TutoG

I 14207 .0 I
4476.3
1 I 15000.1

1296?.5 ! 14179.8 870<>.9 9520.5

15a36.3 4895.2 , 10002.1 10170.61

i

I

·

9300.4

41 0-2 51.82

Shetneld Island, (2) .·····. ·I 41 02 47.67
Palmer ······..··········.
41 03 38.30 41 06 3iL81 41 03 07.52 40 56 08.94

reenmc

n-·:·h·P--;·

omt,\·

·;2)·····----; -···-···,

~ g;

I
/

2157.3 i 2359.4 i 13310.5 , :::~:I

1.34
6.42 7.62 8.36 9.44 7.93 7.56 4.08 6.55 5.68 11.72 l!l.59 8.78 9.64

33 27 ,

11~·_ 9 3
~

II

14-11"'.4
~

Copp'slsland ............... : Brushy Ridge .............. · j

90 4817 33 56 10

1151%.0 12765. 7

I

16616.8 13930.2

Stan:wich ·········.········
Purdy ················.···

BrnshyRidge ...··..·..····. J 642054 ;Palmer .........·.....·.... 1440725 'Palmer .··. , Stinwich ······.···········.

I
I

1

12168.0113306.6 6565.3 1 7179.6 11533.9 9995.11 2063-2.3 22156.4 15758.5 16964.9

················j

1

84 52 24 464321 1441359 23 40 33
21)

Munro ············.·····.

: Harrow .................... j
Round Hill................. 1 ' To1V!lsend ..................
i

I 10547.0 I 9139.9
'
18866.9 20260.6 14135.8 15513.3

Port Chester,_ (station) ··· -·· 1 41 00 06.53

&m,ds' ,Pp~

I 158 06 58 ·········.······ ! 194 62

lJ.tJ#ed: Stat~ Ooa$t Survey.-tlcograpkU:ai Posttzons. Seettoti 1L-L0ttg lslawl, So~.
Name of station.

Sketck B, No. 2.
Distance.
Metres. 5863.0 2073.0

Latitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0 , ,,

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To station-

Back azimuth.
0
I II

Distance. Distance.

Sandford..................
Port Chester, (flag-staff)....
Close ······ ·······.·· ···· Hobby ··················.

410110.85 40 59 54.19 41 04 45.24

73 39 36.9'2 73 39 18.78 73 37 43.74 73 36 39.38 73 33 49.85 73 30 32.99 73 25 59.23 73 16 34.68 73 24 09.85 73 37 04.40

304 47 36
16 53 51

Litt1e Captain's Island....... Port Chester...............
Sandford . · · · · · . · . · · · . · · · . . Port Chester.... · ···· ·· ··. .

124 50 45 196 53 34
349 50 01

Yards. 6411.6 2'267 .0
2626.8 ll97.5 6471.5 10048.5

Kiles.
3.64 1.29

169 50 23 110 21 38
290 23 45

290 21 09
110 26 21

24fr2.0 1095.0

l,49 0.68
3,68

20 41 41

!

Palmer .· · . · . . . · · . . . · .· ... . Port Chester . . · · · . . · . . . . . . . Pttlmer . · · · . . . . . · . . . · . · · . . . Little Captain's Island.......
Palmer · · · · · . · · · · ·. ···· ··· . Stanwich .·.... ··.... ..··.. Palmer · · · · . . · · · · . . · .. · · · · .

200 40 09
87 33 29 175 05 30

5917 .8 9188.7 4048.0 7750.7 5988.3 3o"20.0 4570.6 10650.0 3918.l 134&3.2
1~235.3

5.71
2,52 4.8'2
3,~

41 03 32.68 41 06 52.42 41 03 14. ll 41 03 16.80 41 08 04.65 41 07 05.34 41 02 03.47

267 31 35 355 04 17
359 10 29 79 55 48

4426.8

8475.9

~

Webb....................
Norroton · · · · . · · · · · · · · . · · · -Norroto:u Point............
Southport Spire............ Norwalk Spire.............

179 10 31
259 54 02

2.37 4998.3 11646.6 147'26.2 13380.2 18700.0 7001.5 1613.8
4~-7

99 24 00 47 51 41 57 31 11 343 13 33 46 35 18 98 03 46

Little Captain's Islaud. .· · ·· .
Long Neck................. Eaton · · · · · · . . · . · . . · · · · . . · .

279 21 53 2'2i 48 00
237 29 :la 163 15 2'2
2'~6 31 08 277 55 38

2,84
6.62 2._43 8.37

Copp's Island....... . .. · · · · · Brushy Ridge. . · . · . . · · . . · . . .
Gorham ..··.. , ·· ., . ,. ,. · · · . St. John . . · . · . . . · . . · . . . . . . .

7.6&
10:62 4.50
0.9'~ 3-~~

17100.0 '1243.7 1475.7 5510.3 5125.3

188 10 39
78 26 32

S 11 08 258 25 51
2"~

Horse Nook Spire..........

49 07 49
345 52 56
1.'3'l
~ 4.\)

Port Chester . · . · · . . · . . . . . . .
Little Captain's Island.......
~tanWicn. · · · . . · · · · · · · · · · · · . '\'1.~~~\l;>l),. ···· , ····· , ······ , .

05 53 165 54 15
:\W. 19
'C>l li>!.)
~
~

6025.9
5603.9
99.\2.9
\.191..%

3.18
5.6~

·~ o\9~

\.0-4

Name

of station.

Latitude.

f

Longit-.ide.

.Azimuth.

{

To station-

f Back azimuth. f Di.stance. f Distance. f Distance.
0 , ,,

~~~~~~~~~-1-~~~~~

Stamford Spire, (southwest)

4~ o~ 1~_19 I 7~ ~ o~.96
41 07 32.10 41 08 18.35 73 31 2"2.67 73 34 32.93

0

-'

n

·Vares.
8813.0 2081.0 5234.9 8041.6 109"27'.7

l'ard11.

.Miles.
5.48 1.29

134 35 21 266 39 53 315 0-2 36 3.'>1 43 13 329 09 16 287 48 23

Stanwich .··..·········.···.

Korroton ·····.······.····.

314 32 19 86 40 51

9637.6

2275.7
5724.7 8794.1

Davenport................
Scofield ··············.···

Lockwood.................. Norroton...... ······. ......
Norroton ····.. ···.·· .·.·..

135 03 16 171 42 41 149 11 54 107 51 32
I
I

3.26 5.00
6.79 2.90

Davenport.................

4660.8,

11950.2 509tL9

VICINITY OF ~'EW YOPJL
Quimby ······ ···---------·

41 08 4.2.74

73 43 52.77 73 43 0-2.78 73 46 59.60 73 45 46.41 73 41 45.li 73 40 27.59

311 31 27 57 24 11 51 58 01 327 32 52 275 06 07 2"2 59 24 22 59 30 3'29 00 31 49 41 55 24 14 20 160 17 03 71 47 18 20 59 30 62 54 54

Round ~ill--:···· .......... Buttermilk Hill. . . . . · . . . . · . .

l

!

131 33 52 237 21 16
231 54 49

7073.7 7371.3

I
I

7735.6 8061.0

4.40 4.58 5.82 4.78

'Boekhill. -- · -- ·· - · - - - · - - - - ·

41 09 41.12
41 08 55.39

I

Buttermilk Hill.. .......... . Round Hill..·......··......

147 35 05 95 08 10 20-2 58 32
20-2 58 42 149 01 46

.,,:w, ""·""" 1.9 i .10-245.1
7691.8
4373.7 4740.3 4368.8 5146.3

8411.5

Sar1ea ·----- ······ ---- -·-·
Hunt's Hill····.··..·..··..

IButtermilk .····..·········. i1
/ Quimby ·····..·····.·····.

4783.0 5183.9 4777.6 5687.8

2.72

2.95
2.71

41 11 05.78
411217.17 41 09 33.8"2 4113 34.20

Sarles ·····..·············.
Quimby ·.····.···········.
Sarles--~----...............

3.20
3.98 4.50

Knapp ············.·····.

229 38 26
204 12 57'

9615.5
7249.9 5350.1 50a6 .4 7940.9 5220.1

Quimby ·····- .······ ······
Knapp ···· ···· ·········· ·· Quimby ---- ····· ·····. ····

10515.2 79".28.3
5850.7 5507 -7 8683.9

:Bu.ssing...................
Aspen Hill ·····.···· ···---

340 16 11 251 45 03 200 58 09 242 52 42

3.32 3.13

73 38 25.57

~~-:::::::::::::::::::

5708.5

4.93
3.24

United Btate8 Co<ut Survey.-Geographi.Cal Positions.

Section 11.-Viciniiy ef New Y-ork.

Sketch B, No. 2.

I Bed.ford Spire ············. \
Great Hill .···...··.......
Poundrldge .·.··.····..··.. Poundrldge Church .··...··. Ambler .··..······........

_ _I
Name of station.

,_
0

Latitude.

_Lo_Dgl_·tu_d_e_._\ __ Azi_·m_ut_h._ _ _ _ _ T_o_s_ta_n_·o_n_ _ _ _ l_B_a_c_k_an_·_m_n_th_. J Distance. \ Distance. \Distance.
1

1
0 , "
Q
I II

1

41

' " 12 25.52

'13 38 30.26

86 44 33 18'2 57 12 66 41 10 148 09 34
37 53 55 99 29 24
108 29 14

Knapp · · · · · · .· · · ·· . · · · · · · . Aspen Hill................. Bussing .··········.········ Aspen Hill .····..·····..··. Great Hill .····.··.....···.. Aspen Hill .·····.····...·..

o , ··· 266 42 23 2 57 14

I Mietres. I / i l"ards.
4545.6 1 2121.3 f 6400.q 5743.8 4905.2 lil25.1

4970.~

--;ii""'' es.

I 4110 56.02
4113 01.53 41 12 29.86
41 12 21.06

73 36 15.45 73 34 G6.15
73 34 10.37

246 38 24
3'28 08 09

I f

2309.8 6999.4 6281.3 5364.2 0098.2

2.8"3 1.32

3.98 :l.57
3.05 3.80

217 52 31 279 26 33

58 21 06 73 37 14.19 73 40 34.49 73 50 47.75 73 50 22.13 73 43 14.48 143 37 15 SS 54 56

A·pen Hill . · · · . . · · . . . . · · · · . Bussiug...... . . · · . . · . · . . · . .

28.5 26 26
23.3 16 57

ffi71.4
10335.4

I
I

i

I

6358.2
113J2.5

3..90
6..42

I Knapp

Prospect····· ............ - : 41 11 03.19

·

I
1'

144 10 :22
46 52 17

Vail'sPole ..····.·.····.·. / 411155.30

~~e.iiv.J:

·~Hill ......·...... ·

I 41 05 18.17
I
I I
\
41 02 14.86

28-2 14 29 316 12 05
230 53 03 215 10 07 311 25 16 18 14 41 212 53 39 163 20 38

I I Runt's Hill ................. [ 10-~ 17 46 I Sarl11s. ..................... i 135 14 35
226 50 06

, Aspen Hill ................. .................... i j E:nnpp .................... 1 Quimby .......·····.···. - . !

I 32.1 36 29 21>3 51 58
I 3'24 09 34
50 54 24 35 12 21

2so2.5 6311.51

I
I

f

s::64.7 6902.1

1.74 3.9"2 1.75 3..93 4.46 4.78 2.30 5.09 3.71 7 .&:!

6335:1

~~11

2

f
I

3074-2 @-27 .9
7858.1

7185.7 7&%.7

' Buttermilk Hill .···...···... 1

!
I

Fields West .··...·....·...

J

Theal ··················.. l 40 58 13.46 i 73 41 39.17
:r()m.-p"'lfui. ············

i
,

I Port r I Munro ....................
Chester .... " ··.···...
k'\e\il\!. ''fost. · · · . . · · · · · . · · · .

I

I

Siu-les. .................... · l

3703.4 l 8198.4 11883.0

.

!

] 31 27 2-2 l!ki 12 57

1
, P?rt Che_ster ·. , ···. 32. M Fields \'; est.. · · . . ··..··.·.... · · · · . . . . . '\ 3-13 19 42. 3-1
\

·····\.~Ill:!.~.%\ "I?.'."" '&.1.\;

I

"The\>X......................

'28 .\'2 1'2
~I\.').~

~

r

i &lro.;:i 5976.o I 653.5.2 12994.9

!

I

i

st04.8
4049.9

I

4150,0 .,

7765.9

7~.7\ 151)\ll'>.U

4538.31 819-2.5 \\
85~.8
~-'a.

2.58
4.8~

Name of station.
Spyhill ······ "........ ·· . .

L~atitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0 ,,

Azimuth.

To station-

~~~~~~....,...~~~:

I

Back azimuth.
85 48 27 42 40 21 67 36 11 154 53 55 60 16 55 140 51 39 21 45 38 83 16 3{J
45 31 20 100 13 51

Distance.
Metres, 8744.0 6254.0

Distance. !Distance. lards. 9562.2 6839.2
89"24.8 9871.4

40 59 45.64 4i 00 33.9"2

73 46 15.Si 73 48 37.51 73 49 31.44 73 51 34.24 73 52 47.85 73 54. 24.36 247 32 40 334 52 08 240 12 49 320 49 17 201 44 27 263 12 57 2-25 29 12 :280 09 20 247 18 24 306 12 35

Port Chester · · · · · · · . . . · · · · . Fields West................ Fields West .. ,,............
:Munro · · · · · · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · ·

Miles. 5.43 3.88

Greensburgh, (2)....... ....

Greensburgh, (3) .···.··.·.. 1 40 59 31.71 Valentine, (2) ............. i 40 55 38.34

" Fields West .....·····.·..·.

8161.2 9026.8 10142.0 8065.2 7749.3 8u23.9 6437.0 9843.0
74~.0

5.07 5.61 6.30 5.01 4.81 4.98 4.00 6.12 4.61 1.74 1.86 2.41 12.59 12.74

.

.

l

:Munro .................... .
Greensburgh, (3) ............ I . Munro ·····...····.······.. I

11091.0 8819.8 8474.4 8774.7 7039.3 10764.0 8114.3 3058.7 3279.1 4344.2 22163.1 2-2429.3 14389.9 17160.2 16853.6 8877.6 16068.9 10086.0

I

Shonhard '····· '·''·· ·.·.

·1

! 40 57 05.42

Boompes Hook ··········. · j 40 57 59.00

\ ~=s~~~~~ ~~:::::::::::::I .
I .

Greensburgh, (3) ............ 1 Greensburgh,(3) ........... .

,

biaery····..·····.

"-----·I
I , I I
I

40 57 59.98

73 50 13.95
73

199 21 11 64 57 12
6 47 i8
29"2 28 50

l ,

Shonhard .·····.··········. Shonhard ................. .

67 21 36 126 13 38 19 21 39 244 55 31 186 46 11 112 37 38 62 49 33'2 23 21 133 05 32 250 53 27 7 14 17

2797.0

Fort W aahlngton ··········. j 40 51 08.21 "°an Dyne ·················
40 43 37.28 40 52 34.26 40 48 16.29

55 09.40

73 60 49.45 73 50 31.76 73 47 12.61

242 37 23 152 26 44 313 00 18 70 57 01
18i 13 2.5 149 38 24

I~:!~r~~~~::::::::::::: I
Kissam .····.·.···.······.. Fort Washln,,oton ..·...·.....

2998.5 3972.5 20266.8 20510.2
13158.7 15691.9 15411.6 8118.0 14694.0 '9223.0

Kissam .··.....····.··.···.· Fort Washington .····.·····.

42

8.17 9.75

Givan ····················.

9.58 5.04
9.13 5.73

Throg'a Neck ··············

I

liunro ······.··········.··.

Givan,;·· ;.····:··········· I 329 36 14

United States Coast
___ N_am_e_or_sta_ti_on_._ _

Survey.-G~gr-aphical

Posi.tionJ.
Azimuth.
0 , ,,

Sectitm 11.-Vicinity of New York.
To stationMunro...... · · · . · · . · . . · · · · . Gi>an...... . . · . . . . . ..· . . . . . .
Throg's Neck............... Valentine, (2) .· . .· . ··.. ··.. Givan.. . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . . . . . Valentine, (2) · . . ·. . ..·. .... Gi1an .. - - ___ .. ___ ..... _........... _.... Kissam ..···.··..········..

Sketch B, No.!.
Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
Metres. 14667.2 9-252.0 Yards. 16039.6 10ll7.7 Miles. 9.11 a.75

I Latitude. I Longitude. \ I Throg's Neck Light......... 40 48 16.87 73 47 08.96
0'N

Back azimuth.
0 , ,,

0'"

186 54 12 149 07 17 313 51 44 249 06 42 268 33 35 2"29 59 55
167 25 28 273 43 18

6 55 01 329 05 04

Westerfeld................ Lydecker · · ··· ·· · ··· ·····. Wolf Pit ..······.··.··.·..

40 54 27.21 40 52 27 .59 40 47 12.43

73 55 40.24 73 56 34.12 73 48 57.18 73 52 01.47 73 54 28.05 73 55 35.60 73 55 58.89 73 53 02.21

133 56 46 69 09 23
88 37 33 50 03 12 347 24 24 93 47 30 66 34 47 S-28 3::i 31 345 18 45 72 15 35 356 21 44 69 03 42

16498.0 6159.0 8492.0
916-LO

18041.7 6735.3 9'286.6 10021.5 11121.9 9920.8

10.25 3.83 5.28 5.69

Rapalyee .····.······ ···-·· 1 40 46 11.70 Polhemus ····.·.··..·····. Wardell .·.···.·········.. Great Mill Rock ··.···.

I

10170.2 9071-9 4709.4 10711.2

6.32 5-_54
2.93 6.71 5.25 3.30 5.46 1.05 1.33 0.58 4.04 3.19 2.59 1.36
1.51.

246 s-~ 44 14B 39 07 165 19 45 252 13 18 176 21 57 249 0-2 58 274 19 07 324 33 15
29i 58 57 343 52 33

I Fort Washington ..·.·..·..·.

Wolf Pit ......····...·.·...

5150.1 11713.3
9-236.6 5812.4 9617.7 1854.5 2335.8 1030.0 7113.4 5609.0 4559.3

I 40 46 43.30
I
1

I Fort Washington .····.·.····
La\\Teuce ..·...·.···.·.···. Fort Washington ..·.·······. Polhe1Ilus ..··.. ' ····.··.· - -

8446:'3
5315.0

40 46 23.65 40 46

st94:8
1695.8 2135.9 941.9

····I'
-I
i

I

1

48~52

Polhemus .·········..·.···. ! 94 20 06 'Vardell ..·..·.. ,. ·.··...·. 144 33 30 . Wolf Pit .. , ...·..·..·...·.. j Rapalyee ..·....····..·.···.
118 01 41 163 53 13

Leggett .···.·.·····.· _.·

40 48 51.46

6504.8 5129.1
4169.2 2194.4
'!43&.8
~J:'·

Flushing Bay···.············\. 40 45 27.08 \' 73 50 48.58

218 47 06 128 50 46
33U 4.G 1.3

l Wolf Pit ...·...·. , ·....· - ·. Rapalyee ....····.......··..
"Ral'alyee .··········.·······

38 48 23 308 49 59
1.50 4.G 4.6 ~ l'.2. 1..G

2399.7

U\\.e-r'&

1~~ ······· · · · - · \ 4.() 4.7 '!Q.G:\

73 l'>'! l'.2 '}.{)

G'4

~~ ).~

\ -e?\he- ..· ._ ...···. ···· ....

1..51

~--N._am_e_o_{_s_t.atio_-_n_._~(__u_ti_tud_e._/ \ o · " SouthBrother ············· J 40 47 44.95

!-'

~A-zi-'m_u_th_._ _ _ _ _~_-o-st~a~n-·o_n~~--->f-13ac_k_a:znn_'_u_th_./Distance. /Distance. ; nfn~·
J

I

o · " \ o 1 " 73 53 33.32 ! 32310 04 34 00 69
)!

Rapaiyee ..····.·····.·····. Polhemllii ... - ·......... ·· . . Lawrence.................. Rapal}'ee....... ······ ·····. Polhemus··---··---·--····· Fort WllBhington...... ·· · ··.

o I " 14311 04 214 00- 23
115 o.;.i-6 v 177 22 IO 99 35 48 10 07 42

I:
f. _-.·,

Mttres. \ ---359-2.91 , ._ ~293.6

Hunt's Point..............

295 04 23 ! 40. 48 02.92 I 73 52 08.19 , 357 2'J 05
II

I

.c1"""~~ ""° 1~

\

3434.1 \ 3545.3 i 77op.7 I

1

Yards. 3929.1 2508.2 2152.3 I 3755.4 I 3877.0 8421.3

M'des.
2.23 L42
1.22 2.13

Prospect IIilL ............t' 40 47 02.43

~~~1
Howanl ··········.·

7:156 57.161 2i9 34 10 . 190 07 04

I
·

2.20 4.78

·····-!
l
J

I
40 37 36.73 \ 74 05 03.89 '\ 163 34 41 243 19 10

.
Weasel_-·--·· .............. 343 30 54 Harrow-····- ............ "' 1 63 36 48 Weasel. ............. ··--··\ Howard .................... 1 !fount Prospect ........ : .... ! Howard ................. : ·. !
140 54 53 64 47 0-2

I
42542.3 ! 46543.2
29373.5 I 32122.0 11493.61 12569.1 11675.5 ! 12768.0 16897.31 18478.4

! 28862.7 ! 31663.4

MoantProspect ...... ·--···I 40 40 15.73 i Highwood ................ / 40 46 07.74
I'

_ I 73 67 41.40 i
1

I

320 46 16 244 42 14

I

17.93 26.43
16~25

7 .14

74 00 44.39 73 54 08.90

f
II

338 24 11 21 09 18 34 14 16 110 49 55

158 26 11 201 06 28

7.25 10.50 5.61 6.16

13-etu .................... 1 40 44 13.62

j
Luqueer ..................
40 40 43.66 40 43 39.99

I
73 57 13.41

MountProspect ............. 1 214 1158 Highwood.................. 290 45 37
Highwood.................. Vetts .... ..... .... ........ Highwood.................. Lnqueer ...... ....... ...... 350 32 22 49 39 35
312 37 05 211 07 03

8869.3 I 9699.2 · 99'2'2.6 / 10851.1 10136.3 I 11084.8 9!m' .6 (' 10933.1 6727.2 6357 .5 5759.61 7560.81 7356.7 6952.4 6298.5 ffn7.0

73 59 33."12 i 170 33 00 2'29 35 56 132 39 21 31 08 34

Bushwick .................
Stevena · · · · .. · · · · · · · · · .. · ·

40 44 38.J9

74 01 06.54 \ 288 14 14 343 12 35

Bilihwick ...... .... .... ···. 108 16 47 . Lnqueer .... ....... .... ···· . 163 13 37

I

3.58 4.70

-~ ;~

lO

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Posi,ticms. . Section IL-New York Bay.
N11111e ofiltation.

Sketch B, No. 2.
Distance.\ Distance./ Distance.
.A1etres.

I

Latitude.
Q
I II

Longitude.
0
I N

\, __ Az_im_u_th_.__ _ _ _ _T_o_s_ta_tl_o_n__ _ _ / Back l!Zimpth.
1

0

I

It

Fort Green................
~klyn InBtitute · · · · · · · · ·

40 41 28.30 40 41 47 .24 40 41 46.86 40 43 22.ss 40 42 43.16 40 42 53.17 40 44 10.94

73 58 14. 7B 73 59 21.97 73 58 54.18
7!l 56 37.13

340 43 17 53 14 58 290 18 02 7 47 37 301 42 57 25 15 54 121 52 45 14 39 27 140 11 54 36 58 12

Mount Prospect............. Luqueer .···......··.·.·.·.

o ' " 160 43 39 23314 06
110 18 47 187 47 30 121 43 24 205 15 28 301 52 30 194 38 47 320 04 49 216 54 58

2371.1 '2305.7 168-2.9 1982.2
1088.6 2158.6
100-~.4

Yards. 2593.0 2521.4

.Niles. 1.47 1.43

Fort Green................. Luqueer ..·· ·.·.. .... ...... Fort Green................. Luqueer .·· . · · · . ·· ··. ·· .·..
Bushwick ................. . Mount Prospect ............ .

1840.4 2167.7 1190.5 2360.6 1096.2 652-J. 7 25970.2 12707.8 219'2.l 5763.4 2116.4 8607.31 2837.4

1.04 1.23 0.68 1.34

Brooklyn, (Cath. Ch. spire).

Vancott.................. New York City Hall........
Bnshwick Spire ·····.·····. C-Onover ..................

0.62
3.71 }4.76

00

5964.6

·

Weasel ................... . Fire Signal ................ .

23748.l 11620.5 2004.5 5270.3 1935.3 7870.8 2935.7 ! 2594.6
961.9 12'20.5

7.22
1.25 3.27
1.20 4.89
1.~

.
0

t:j n

73 56 14.15 73 55 31.33 73 57 15.14 73 57 26.54 74 00 04.50
1.\ 00
l.~.60

I

136 05 21 52 44

z.i

Bushwick ............ ··--·· 1 316 04 42 Mount Prospect .·····.······ 202 51 47 Vetts ....·....······.··.··. Mount Prospect ..···.··· , ···
Conover ............ T.... -· .,T,. ... . Bushwick ..·.··.······.····

CQ

·

267 38 11 2'2 50 08 303 56 53 359 06 12 198 41 22 251 45 31 257 25 40 ~ 28 13
~

S7 39 06 20"2 48 43

Blackwell's Island ......... . 1 40 45 04.10 Williamsburgh, ( fiiig-stalf) ···

123 58 03 179 06 13 18 4l 30 71 45 53

:mo.4 /
1051.9 1334.7
ll

1.61

40 43 10.45

Bushwick .......... , ···· ,, · Van Cott ............... ,, ··

0.60
0.76 5.31 3.99
5.~

St. John's()li:q.rcll Splrl) ..... 1 40 43 13.34

......-........·.....\.... ""-"'

Vetts ..···. ....... ··.· .... 77 29 32 Mount Prospect ....... , ····· \ 148 29 46
Vetts ·····. ---~--- """ .,,,
)i\o~ ~- . . . . . . . . . ,..

8547.4 6426.2

9347.2. 7~7.5 \ 9371.9
~.\;\.

45 '<>'7

~~-~

. \.'<>')<~ ~

86 50 55

<\-~

___ N_am_e_o_f_sta_tio_n. ___ _ _ Lati_._tn_d_e_.
1

St. Mark's Spire ···········
Almshouse ·····.··········

_·I Longitude. f__ _u_th_._ _ _ _ _T_o_s_ta_ti_o_n-_.____,_Ba_ck_azun_·_uth_./Distance. (Distance. /Distance. I 73 58 55.03 II 262 47 45 Vetts . . . ... ···· ··. .··· ... . 82 51 05 Metres. Yards. Miles. 40 43 46.13 6766.5 7399.6 4.20
Azim_·
0 '

o

'

"

0

'

"

"

o

'

"

40 44 18.21
40 43 56.44

I 73 58 15.20 i, 271 24 53 353
1

I
I I

345 04 14
56 30

Mount Prospect.............
Vetts . .. ... . .. .·... ... ·... Mount Prospect.............

165 05 15 91 27 35 173 56 52

6715.3 5780.0 7521.0 69-22.8 7072.5 5357 .9 4595.8 5031.0 9'.!69 .8 6525.5 3000.6 3640.3 3486.9 9415.5 5540.6 7869.9 1232.9 3C67.5 3610.7

7343.7 63'20.9 8"224.7 7570.6 7734.3 5859..2 5025.8 5501.7 10137 .2 7136.l 3281.3 3980.9 3713.2 10296.5 6059.0 8628.2 1370.l 3354.5 I 3948.6./
I

4.17 3.59 4.67 4.30 4.39 3.33 2.86 3.13 5. 76 4.05 1.86 2.26 2.17
5.85 3.44

~ ··········-··Williamsburgh Spire ······..

i

73 59 03.12

i

265 36 35 344 15 18 239 0'2 25 4 52 51

Vetts . . ··. . ...· ·.·· ·..·· ·· JifountProspect..... ··.. ·..·
Vetts ..·· ..····· .. · ··· ·.. .

85 39 47 164 16 11
59 04 33 184 52 40

40 42 44.19 40 45 16.07
40 41 52.96

I
1

Shot Tower ················ Naval Hospital, ( tlag-statr) .·· Navy Yard, (!lag-staff) ······ New York Trinity Ch; Spire.

i
' 1

i

73 57 24.751

Mount Prospect.............
Vetts .·· . .·. .. ·· .. ·.. . · ·· .

73 57 26.99 1 i' 29'2 31 59 2 05 33 73 57 36.73 1 29...8 20 51 1 2 05 42
2"27 OJ 47 340 38 12
I

Mount Prospect..............
Vetts ·.· .··. .. ···. .. .. ·. · ·

112 34 14 182 05 24
48 23 07 182 05 39 47 02 52 160 33 44 69 21 18 136 21 59

i 40 42 02.40 I
40 42 25.71

I I 73 58 30.63 Ii
I
i

!

'

Mount Prospect....... · · · . · .
Van Cott .·····..··········.

.

~.

Mount Prospect .····...··...
Vetts ...·................. }fount Prospect .····.·.·····

i

74 00 24.29:
j

249 l7 08 316 20 13

Brooklyn Trinity Ch. Spire .. 1 40 40 56.33 ! 73 57 43.06 ; 219 33 01 358 l 3 12

I

I
I

I
)
1'

Yettfl .··.·..·..·.....···.. }fount Prospect. ....·..···..
Luqueer ....·····..·....... }fount Prospect .····..····..

39 35 26 178 13 13
211 47 31 163 42 03 343 54 51
35 4i:! 28

4.90
0.78

Navy Yard, (ship-house) ···· Mowt Mitchell ············

40 42 08.08 : 73 58 24.57 I 31 48 16 I ' 343 41 35 40 24 27 .77 \. 74 00 06.30 163 58 04 215 34 07

J.90 2.24
15.73 33.15

Howard .····.·····.···.···· Harro~ ···················

253'21.9 . 2i69i.2 / 53359.Q 1 58351.8 I

United States Coast Sur1Jey.-:-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Bloomfield · · · · · ·········.. Toad ····················· Point Comfort ············· Sandy Hook .·············· Latitude.
0

SectWn IL-New York Bay.
To station-

Bketch B, No. 2.

,

I Longitude. I
0

Azimuth.
0
I

II

~

I

/ Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.
0
I

,,

\

II

,,

Metres.

Yards.

40 32 04.01 40 35 58.43 40 21 20.19 40 27 42.18

74 19 08.84 74 06 34.94

242 36 25 297 30 Oil 336 43 13 67 53 01 118 33 14 185 55 40 159 01 56 235 05 56 191 26 34 234 27 59 7 58 28 311 58 46 117 18 15 168 05 04 214312 25112 53 284 42 06 8 57 09

Howard .··.············.··· Mount Mitchell ..···.···.··. Mount Mitchell ·.······..··. Bloomfield .··.·.....····.·. Bloomfield . . · · . · ..·······.. Toad ...·.·····.·····.····· Howard ···..······.·······. Patllion .··...·.···.········

62 45 35 117 42 21 156 47 25 247 44 50 298 25 48 5 56 25 338 58 41 55 15 46 11 27 44 54 37 40 187 57 52 132 03 09 297 16 20 348 03 45 201 42 55 71 17 24 104 46 17 188 56 44 81 38 29 146 06 37
9334. 58
171~4.l'>

22363.7 30368.2 23183.3 19149.8 18308.5 16050.2 19641.4 26065.2 12856.1 25805.2 9351.8 12852.5 4111.l 11392.2 1712.8 10307.3

24456.2 33209.7 25352.6 20941.6 20021 .6 17552.0

M"iks. 13.89 18.87 14.40 11.90 11.37 9.97 12.20 16.20 7.99 16.03 5.81 7.98 2. 55 7. 08 1. 06 6.40 5.69 3. 55 6. 85 1.27
6.

I

74 07 45.05 74 00 04.80 73 59 48.69

I
Sandy Hook Light-house ··.· Great Kills .··············· Compton ·················· Kniphausen ················ Caven Point ··············· Constable's Point .········.
~abne~w
I

.

I

21479.2 28.)04.1 14059.1 28219.8 10-226..8 14055.1 4495.8 12458.2 1873.l 112:71.7

40 27 39.41

Wyckoff .··········..·····. Pavilion .··················. Point Comfort .············· Sandy Hook .····.··.···.·.. Point Comfort ·············. Great Kills ················. Howard ...·...·.··········. Mount Prospect ..·······.·.· Mount Prospect · . · . · ····.·. Kni phausen · . · · · ········..· l\fount Prospect ·.·....······ Kniphausen ···.····.··.···.
l!.lount"Pros-pect ············· liow&riL ···················

40 32 21.06 I 74 06 50.38
I

. =

40 26 19.741 74 05 09.94 40 38 28.32 , 74 04 36.9"2 40 41 31.36

! 74 03 59.071

I

91696 5715.0 \ 1=-· 6249.8
11021.2 2051.2
115MA.7
~-7

"

39 .,_,. \ ,. 05 25.61
74. 05 39.32

~ 261 33 26 326 06 05
2:13
~1.

12052.4 2"243.1
12296.8 6189.3

········.·······

4.0 4.0 38.'24.

~

4.6 '3'2. '22.

3.

1 ___ N_am_e_o_f_stati_·_on_._ _ ,__ Lati_·_m_d_e_._, __ Lo_ngz_·_m_d_e_. -_A_zi_·in_u_th_.__ ,____T_o_st_·_ao_.·o_n_.----J-B_acJi: __

-1

a_~_·m_u_th_.
' ''

_Distan_· __c_e __ ·

_Dist_· _an_ce_. Distance.
1

f

0

'

"

o

'

"

Bedloe's Island, (flag-staff) ..
Gibbet Island, (tree)....... Jersey City, (fiag-statf). ·--Castle Garden, (fiag-statf). ·· Governor's Island, or Fort Columbus, ( fiag-stafi:) Fort Tompkins ···· ·-·- ···· FortHamilton------------· Owl'aHead ···· ---· ···· ··.· Coney Island,

40 41 17.48 40 41 55.72 40 42 52.43 40 42 02.72 40 41 27. 77 40 36 13.27 40 36 26.05 40 38 23.8'2 40 34 39.44 40 35 56.02 40 33 43.95

74 02 20.85

I

·

0

'

"

286 09 36 j 31 30 03 74 16 08 29 05 03 48 5113 24 44 16 40 56 07 78 42 56 297 48 57 60 12 48 294 24 29 36 36 45 305 19 21 44 09 33 73 05 59 26 00 44 276 40 47 147 14 58 110 35 30 8 24 26 262 3-2 48 2"26 34 04

}fonnt~spect.............

0

Kniphausvn ···· ···· ···· ····
Caven Point................ Kniphausen · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Ca>en Point · . . . . . . . . . . . . · . . Kniphansen · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .

106 12 38 211 28 34
254 14 54 209 03 24 228 49 53 204 42 31

Metres. 6832.8 6118.3 2770.1 7318.9 3799.4 8967.3 8749.9 4935.4 4760.9 7710.1 7851.6 8918.8 6296.5 10526.0 4990.0 4479.8 3041.9 3909.4 263-2.0 2388.0 10510.2

Yards. 7472.2 6690.8 3029.3 8003.7 4154.9 9806,4 9568.6

i

Miks. 4.24 3.80 1.72 4.55 2.36

74 0'2 05.49 . 74 01 57.20 74 00 32.91 74 00 40.70 74 03 04 33 74 01 38.71 74 01 40.71 74 00 08.71 73 59 53.86 74 05 23.36

5.57
5.44

Kniphansen ···· ···· ···· ···· Ca.en Point................
Mount Prospect............. Constable's Point..... . . . . . . Wyckoff................... Great Kills................. Wyckoff................... GreatKills................. Howard ......·.....·....·.. :Fort Tompkins . . .· . ·· · . . · · . Wyckoff ....··············. Fort Hamilton..............

220 53 28 258 40 42 117 51 01 240 09 49 114 27 47 216 34 18 125 21 43 224 06 09 253 03 47 205 59 50 964211 327°14 00 290 34 2-2 188 24 16

5397.2
5206.4 8431.4 8586.3

3.07
2.96 4.79 4.88 5.54 3.91 6.54 3.10 2.78 1.89 2.42 1.64 1.48 6.53 4.52

9753.3
6835.7 I 1 11510.91

5456.9 4899.0

(NW.)··----·

3326.51 4275.2
2878.2 "2611.5 11493.6 7954:2

I

l

Benson ····· ------------··
Ehn

Fort Hamilton.............. Coney Island, (NW.) · · · · · · . ·
Wyckoff .·..···.··········. Fort Hamilton ········ ·-----

Tree----·----·-------

8'2 37 16 46 36 10

7273.6

United States Ooast Survey.-Geographical Positions.

Section IL-New York Bay.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 2.

~~-N_am~e_o_f_&_~_non~·~~i~-L_a_ti_tu_d_e_.~1~Lo~n~_·_tu_d_e_._ 1_~A-z_im_u_ili~·-I
0
I

/ R.'lck azimuth.
b
I II

IDistance.
I
, 1
I

Distance. /Distance.

~~~-~~~~--~~-

If

0

I

II

0

I

/I

Prince'sBa.yLight-house.--Red Hook. -- .···.. _. ·- _. .· Battery, (flag-staff) .·· _. · · · . Romer Beaoon---·· ···· ··.. Robin's ReefLight-house....

40 30 24.80
40 40 27.50

74'12 29.84

285 53 09 249 47 36

Sandy Hook · - ·····.··.·····
'Vyckoff ....·······.·····..

106 01 11 69 57 02
229 44 31 200 50 17

Metres. 18248.1 2179-2.4

Yards. 19955.6 23831.5
8917.2 4464.1

Mills. 11.34 13.54

74 00 38.90
74. 00 32. 91 74 00 30.11 74 03 36.80 74 05 00.48 74 12 48.52 74 15 39.33

49

47 24

Ho1rard .....··...··.··.··..
Owl's Head .·..·.·.····....

20 50 59 40 42 0-2. 71 40 30 44.09 40 39 23.81 40 37 42.04 40 30 09.06 40 28 01.06 18 16 20 40 56 00 153 11 12 207 0-2 28
259 06 29 31 47 25

8154.2 408-2.l ll349.6 8751.0

5.07 2.54 7.05 5.45 8.86 4.82 5.28 2.41 17.85 26.34 5.82 5.49

Fort T-0mpkins ····.·.····..
Kniphausen ..·····. _···.·.. Howard .....· - ··..· - ····. - . ""yckoff ....··.·.·.·..···..

198 14 41 2"20 53 21
333 08 14

I 12411.6 9569.8
15597.8 8477 .9

27 04 05 79 10 20 211 46 29 343 16 10 63 45 45 64 17 25 126 0-2 42 96 25 16 41 06 28
324 15 47 15 28 51

14263.2 7752.51 8499.4 3885 1

Mount Prospect .....···.·...
Howard ......·.·.··..·····. Weasel .·····.··········...

Fire Signal ···· ------··....
Moncey ·.······· ···- ·····.

163 19 59
243 28 10

Harrow ....···.····.·..·.·.

244 13 42

I Great Kills ....·.····.. - ··..
J

I 9-294.7 I 4248.6 28728:7 31416.8 .61 46364.7
42397

305 59 25

Point Comfort ··..··.·····..

9366.9 i 10243.4 965!:1.3 8832.8

I
I

Morgan...................

276 20 08 2"21 ()() 34 144 21 00 195 27 53 9-2 49 15 346 17 0-2
1'5';\ 45 18

~::=:::::::::.\ ::::: I :: :: :::
Soutb. Am.boy ········ ··--·-\ 4.0

I I I Bloomfield .· - · · · · . ····.····
J

Point Comfort ·.· - ·.·.·····.

Toad .·.·..··...··.·..·.·.· Toad ···.·..·· - ··.··.·...·.

11240.9 19515.9

I

I

1229-2.7 21342.o

6.98
12.13 12.11 14.86 4.72 9.88

1 I
I

19483.41 2rno6.5 239-2"2.1 26160.5 7601.2 \ 17394.1 8312.4 15905.8
6857 .7
7~'3-0

~

I ~:~~l~--. -.-_·_·_:::::: :: ::: : \
"Bloomuelil ·· _ - · - · · ····· - ··· Cale-----·------· --- --- ----

272 45 45 166 18 45
3i'3 4.'3 5.4. '3S Tim

!\

4.4.J51. \

74. 1.6 '59.98

'2,1.B 1.'5

<\\)

7499.4. SIY.>1..9

Name of-station.

Latitude.
0
I II

I

Longitude.
0

I

i

I

Azimuth.
0
I

,

I

To station-

/Back azimuth. ( Distance. ( Distance. Pi.stance.
i I
0
I
II

II

' 40 29 41.42 Ward ·· :: ·.·······.·.··.·. : ''
CoilaSCOnck· Point ·········.

74 14 32.0i 74 10 24.21 74 12 19.53 74 14 43.39 74 04 23.33 74 15 35.93

27 07 48 2.)0 45 05 145 10 40 97 12 20 173 40 46 245 15 57 118 59 17 184 00 30 166 45 12 205 49 25 2i9 33 21 124 54 51

"

~~~~: ::::~~::~::: ::::::::I

207 07 04 ·10 46 12

Metres. 3476.5 258'2.6

Yards.
3801.8

28'24.3
6501.5 8180.6 6745.9 3272.1 1646.8 4192.0 16513.91 22617.9 4433.41 6681.8

Miles. 2.16 1.61 3.69 4.65 3.83 1.86 0.94 2.38 9.38 12.85 2.52 3.80

i I

40 27 30.90 40 26 50.28 40 27 37.43

lfoncey ·.··.·..····...·..·. i 325 09 06 llorgan ...·......··........ \ 277 08 55 Moncey ..··.. ·.····· .·.. ···· 1 353 40 23 Conaskonck Pomt. ·····..... 65 17 13 Morgan ..··....··...·...·.. Ward ...... ·····-:·····-···

I

5945.2 7480.6
6168.7 299-2.1 1505.9 3833.3 15100.9 2068'2.6 4054.l 6110.l

....,..Point. ··.·.·.·

----1
I
J

i

chestnaquaek ; · · · · · ·······

I I
I

298 58 41 4 00 38

stillwell, or Pigeon H.m - ·· --

40 24 24.49

rth .Amboy, {south spire) .. ! 40 30 10.68

I

346 43 36 Great Kills ...·.·. -- .·..... Wyckoff ..···.. -- - --· .· - -- - I 25 53 34

·I

g .
·

t::I

Cole ..·..·.··...........·.· j 39 34 32 Bloomfield ....·····...····. : 304 52 32

INTERIOR OF NEW JERSEY.
Sayre: ····.·······.·····.. :Bergen Neck .··· : ··· :: ····
40 40 43.56 40 45 49.40 74 16 57.58 74 0-2 16.62 288 54 13 10 54 39 14 3') 18 13.5 58 39 334 40 12 18 37 35 23'1 F 47 32.5 21 37

·1
Howard ....·..·····.····· - -1 109 01 58 Bloomfield ...··...··.·.·... I 100 53 14 Howard ....·..····......·.. 'Veasel ..·.·....··......·.. Howard ...··.·..··.·....·.. Sayre ..·....····.·····.....
Sayre ... - ...................................... Bloomfield ··············.··

17727.5 16319.5 15695.0 17376.8 25539.5 182>'..,5.4
116.31.7 10411.2

19386.3 17ii46.5
1716:~.6

11.01 10.14 9.75 10.80 15.87

Crane,(2) ···············.
lph ········· ---· ····

40 50 05.42 ! 74 12 48.86

I

194 28 28 315 53 02 154 45 15 198 34 53 50 21 59 145 24 20

19002.7 279-29.2 19996.4

11.36
7.26 6.47

., 36

'1.811

74 23 20.32

12774.8 11385.4

United States Coast Sun:ey.-Gcograpltical Pa.tttions. Section IL-Interior
Name of station.

ef New Jersey. Sketch B, No· .3

Latitude.
o r o

Longitude.
0 , ,,

.Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To stationBergen Neck ·. __ ·..··.·.··· Weasel . · · · · · . · · · · · · · . . . · . .

~~~~~~~~~-:-~~~~~:~~~~~-:-~~~~-:-~~~~~~~~~-

I
1 1

Baek azimuth. / Distance.

l
! i

Distance. / Distance. Yanls. 15065.6 15733.2 8708.5 10-258.9 8912.2 17035.8 10329.4 20435.4 13166.4 8486.2 9804.4 8670.0 6373.7 8537.9 5251.3 10129.4 4505.3

Banta-----· ·--· -··· ·--- ..

40 53 09.94 40 50 26.17 40 49 58.12 40 54 43.31

74 00 39.66 74 05 0-2.57 74 00 19.67 73 57 52.37

9 29 59 85 39 36 230 36 33 335 29 25 19 39 14 108 0-2 31 21 26 18 77 45 51
3'2-2 58 08 77 14 07

Bury··----··----· ....... .
Vreeland ··················

Banta.·;···· ······.··· 50 39 21 Bergen Neck ..·.·...··.·..· ! 155 31 13 Bergen Neck. ··..···..···.. 1 199 37 57 "\Yeasel ·····....·····.···. _.,. 287 55 37
Vreeland ..·· __ ···· --·...... Weasel.. ····.·...···..·

····I

265

l~ ~ 5;
3~

55

Metres. 13776.5 14387.0

N"Jl.es. 8.56 8.94

7963.4 9381.l

I

4.95
5.83 5.06 9.68. 5.87 11.61 7.48 4.8'2 5.57 4.9-2 3.62 4.85 2.98 5.75 2.56 3.75

8149.6 J 15578.2 ' 9445.6 18686.9 12039.8 7760.1 8965.5 79-28.2 5828.3 7807.4 4802.0 9-26'2.7 4119.8 6033.7 13750.9 12425.7

I

Cherry Hill ··············.
c. AqllllCkanonk. ·.············

····J

201 24 42 257 37 20

40 51 01.13 ' 74 07 25.80 40 46 46.28 40 47 45.16 40 53 34.04 74 08 10.17 74 07 12.75 74 08 04.34

"Schuyler ············ -·-··· Kingsland ······· ··:··· ···. Van Riper ················

1 Craue, ( ") ;o ······ ··~··· ······ 1 25-, 10 38

BergeuNeck ..···.···..···. 1 143 01 30

133 15 37 187 31 48 211 3'2 54 297 1117 349 09 52 46 01 16
\I

c,raue,(2).................. 313 12 39 :quackauouk ..·.····.··.·· · j 7 32 19
Bury ·····..···..·········· ! 31 34 19 B;rgeu Neck···-····--· ··.. 1117 14 30 Aquackanouk ··----· .··· ···. 169 10 17 C'rane, (2) ··...······· ····-· 1 2"25 58 12
Aquackanouk ..············. 1 253 54 44 Vh Riper..·····.·····.·.·. ! 306 19 35
" I ·

Terhune ···········. -·--··
Wallace ··················
~U:O. ······················

40 51 38.11 40 44 30.41
4.o
~ l)~.n

74 04 36.76 74 10 56.09
74. 1.1)

1~ ~ ~

217 01 45 258 38 43
290 2'2 r,9
'.1:2-1.~~

I Bergen Neck .···········.·. '\
Rows.TO. ·· ·-----·----·-----\ 1',eyv,en.Neck ······· ---· ----

Bury ..··.· -----· ·········. \

37 05 37 78 44 23

l:~:\.
13588.4
8356.1.
1.B'29-2.4

8.54
7.72

QS.&l

\

no

26 1.7

41. ?.1. '3S

Name of station.

I 40 42 44.971 74 os oo_oo ! (b ).... ----------.--------1 40 40 27.31 l 74 06 58 15
I

:

I

I

I

Latitnde.
0

,.

l
I

Longitude.
0
I

Azimuth.
0

JI

,

II

ewark Neck .······· ······

336 2.8 26
23 50 25 59 53 41 161 07 35 315 46 19 33 20 36

I i Howard-·-··--····-··-----· I Bird ..····.····· ·--····-···
I

f

...

To station-

Back azimuth.
0

Distance. { Distance.
Metres.

Distance.
Kiles. 6.44 4.65

,

II

I

156 30 20 203 49 01 239 51 37 341 06 55 135 47 05 213 19 18
273 07 48

10367.6 7479.7 5173.2 4487.0 2367.2 5138.2 2585.9 4256_9 4492.0 6256.1 1)332.8 18434_0 16235.7 7196.3 2.864.5 6766.9 6274.7 1449.2 5416.0 4126.0

Yards. 11337.7 8179.6

i Bird .······.····· -··-··--··
I

:!'lewark ..···.·..··· - ·····..

5657.3 4906_9 2588_7 5619.0 2ffi7 .9 4655.2 4912.3 6841.5 12393.2 20158.9 17754.9 7869.7 3132.5 7400.1 6861.8 1584_8 5922.8 4512.l 4777.4 10365.2

3.22 2.79 1.47 3.19 1.61 2.64 2.79 3.89 7.04 11.45 10.09 4.47 1.78 4.20 3.90 0.90 3.37 2.56 2.71 5.89

( a) ············.········.· J 40 41 22.32 \ 74 08 08.46
( c). ·········~············\

(b)-----·-·-············-··

I "' .. 40.371
I

Bird ..···.·······.·.···....

74 06 09.98 74 03 43.22 74 12 36.97

I
I

93 09 00 15 24 ;)9 206 52 51 74 25 43 290 01 53 232 06 45 264 57 31 175 14 00 88 28 08 181 21 05 286 23 47 127 57 0'.2 350 18 34 94 59 06 211 02 23 263 26 01

en, (spire) .···········. j 40 43 39.51

I

I(b) ..... -.. --- - -....... -- -Bergen Neck .············.. Newark Neck ..·.·········.. Howard_ ············.·····. Bergen Neck .·.·······.···. Howard .····.····.··..····. Sayre .·.··········.···...·. Bird .·..····.·.···.·.····. Newark Neck ..·····..····· Howard ······..·...·······. Bird .·····.····.·····.·... Toad-····· ··········..···. Bird .·········.·····....·.

Newark Neck ·.···.··.···..

195 24 07 26 53 47 254 2"2 49 110 06 49 52 13 31 85 04 59 355 13 43 268 26 49 1 21 10 106 26 33 307 56 30 170 18 59 274 57 12 31 03 27

etht.own, (spire).·-···

I 40 39 '.12-841
I I
40 39 05.631 40 38

I I ~" (spire) ···········. i 40 36 51.041 74 16 32.11

vanhome, (2) ·············
Shoot.er's Iala.nd ·· -······ - ·.
an ··-···· ··-·········

~4

08 06.80

34.241I

74 09 20.04 74 07 13.72 74 11 44.57

.. "'"·"' 1
40 37 01.78

, (St.aten Island) ······.

I

Bir<l · _····.··············· Howard.····················

4358.6
9478.3

633023

United States Coa$t Surrey.-Geographical Positio11s. Section IL-Interior of New Jersey. Sketch B, No. 3.
Name of station.

l__L_a_:i_tude.
\

[_L_o_n.,_cir_u_de_._l__ Azim_· _u_th_.__ ,_ _ _ _ T_o_s_ta_ti_o_n_ _ _ _ Back azimuth. _Di_·_sta_nc_e_.\Distance. Distance.
0
f ,,.

I

I

Williams, (2) ............ __\

4~- ~ ;f.1s / 7~ l~ 3;_941
I

0

19;> 27 05
256 05 13

i

Praal .·....·····.......·.·. TuaJ ..·............... ···· Toad ..·.....·.·..··...··.. Williams, (2) ...·....··..·..

15 27 3G
76 09 06 58 57 24

Netres. 4179.2 8646.8

I l'ards.
4570.3

/tliks.

2.6'.l

9455.9 10072.7
29~.4

5.37 5.72 1.69
1.23

Doty, (Staten Island) ..··.. · 1 40 33 24.29

1

·74 12 10.39 74 IO 48.76

233 53 46 169 17 33 76 2"2 52 132 23 13 336 40 10 293 48 46
87 39 05 313 o;; 18

349 17

1\)

9-210.8 2727.2 1975.9
3"~.1

Ellis, (2) Staten Island ····. / 40 33 39.39
Zellis, (2) .············.· - .

I I

i

Doty .·.....·.··..·····...· Williams, (2) .........·.....

256 21 59 312 2"2 06 156 43 30
113 50 24

2160.8 3592.5 20-273.6

2.04
11.53 2.42

40 32 43.02 ; 74 16 17 .64
74 15 01.06
,!

.

I

I

Beers ... _.....·.....·.··... Cole ...·......·.... ___ . _... Zellis, (2) ..·.·.......····..

18533.9

3694.9
1803..i

4259.3 1972.2
2637.0
rnr28.5 13D8Ll 1937 _o 5118.3

-rn
r
·~
0

Shotwell ······ ·----·-----· 1 40 32 45.43
Woodbrid:e ········· -- · -- . Woodbridge, (spire) ...····.

I

Cole ·.·............·....·..

267 33 15 133 06 06

1.12
i.50 7.43

~

2411.4
10084.9 11964·6 1771.3 4680.4

40 33 2"2.51 40 33 39.79

74 14 20.83 ,. 74 16 06.26

10 35 52 246 17 31
8 41 42 315 14 36

Morgan ··.··..·........·... ToaJ ..·...·...·.····· - ---· Zellis, (2) ..·...............
Cole ...·.... _.··..· _·· _ .·.·

190 35 01
66 2"2 34

6.27

i

Throckmorton-·----------· Baird·- - --- - -- · -- - - . -- - - -.
"Bound :Brook ··· ---- ·······
Gn.u'1.11u ······ ------ ··· -- ·

40 15 01.08 i 74 10 40 14 07 .05

I I
1·

189 41 35 135 16 07 40 06 00
343 17 36

LIO
2.91 14.19 8.85
12.~

28.681

219 59 18 163 19 28 265 08 28 2"25 49 40 311 53 19 3-15 20 45
'&)!\ M 4.'2 1."'\. ~ 'i,>1

.Monnt Mitchell ······· -----·
Beacon Hill ...·.. ---·-· ....

2"2o"'31.7 24968. l 14253.6 , 15587 .3

I

74 24 31.26

Throckmort-0n .·.····..·.·.. Beacon Hill ...... ---- .·.... Beacon Hill ..·.............

85 17 32
45 56 53

I
I

19983.l 2"2008 .1

I 21852.91

40 34 56.661 74 31 37 .57
4a \.a_M..l.'fl. \ \ 14 1.'3 ~-~. .

Baird--··----------- .·....
'M.lluut Mitcb.e\l ······· 'Be.1'.C<>u'B'>\l ······ ------

132 05 06 165 25 15
49 53 26 k ~i \\'> \

3471_3.2

39830.0 \ 43556.9 \
25008.6

l

24067 A

13.67 21.57 24.75
15.M 'LG<>

2796,1.3 \
27:M8.6

1.2?.U .\;,

\

\

\.'Mfit).'i), \

U-nikd $al'es Coad Surrey.-Oeogrqpnzca/ ..Pon"nm11.
Name f>f lftatiWs.

&cl'.e® ..lI.-:hzren'or q/ l\'im>.Tcney.

Sketch B, .&. ;J.
Distance. [

f ,_. I I
0
I II

Lougitude.
0
I

Azimuth.
0
I II

,....
i;o

Debow ···················. : 40 10 55.37
.

I 74 25 16.89
I

,,

250 04 44 218 26 03 182 58 45 219 46 50 197 16 05 277 10 19 26-1 55 42

I
I

I x.-~ l
[ Beacon Hill ...... ~--· ....·. Throckmorton ····..·····.·.

!""".....,.·
0 , ,

Dlstan~.
Yards. 24416.1 29666.1

Distanee.

Throckmorton.............. Beacon Hill · · · · · . · · · · · · . . · · I

70.14 17 38. 33 45 2 59 14 39 49 10 17 17 52 97 19 58 119 41 13 85 12 40

Metres. 2"2327.0 27127.8
19839.9 8018.2
l~.9

Mild, 13.87 16.85
12.33 4.98

.Newell ··················· ·

I 40 JI 41.15
I
I

,, .. °'·"I
74 16 08.50

21696.3 8768.5 14462.3 815"i7 .2

Freehold Spire, (court-house)!

I

40 15 34.38
I

l Beacon Hill ....····.····...
Throckmorton ····.······...
Baird ..······.····.····.··· Beacon Hill ...····.······..

8.22
5.04 15.24 23.13 0.36 16.83 13.73 15.82 18.59 15.21 4.99

8117.6 24529.9 372.'U.2 583.o 27084.3 2":2089.3 25453.2 299'25.0 24471.4 8028.2 8275.0 5196.0 702.6 4656.0 7811.7 8431.8

Princeton Seminary, (cupola)! 40 20 40.oo I 74 39 34.261 299 31 29

I

26825.l
40714.9

w
~
0 ~
~

Princeton College,· (cupola).!' 40 20 52.06

i

Sanilhiils ..··············· ·
Poplar Ridge ·.·····.····· -

I
i

I

74 39 15.261-····· ········ Princeton Seminary, (cupola) . I. ............. 74 32 19.081 277 59 09 329 57 27 74 42 10.751 30-2 51 53 338 46 08 74 43 48.71 74 40 08.69 74 43 25.25 74 36 23.83 Be:scon Hill ·..··...······. - I 98 11 26 IBaird ··.. ___________ .···.. 150 0-2 30
Disboro' ·......···.··.·.·.. Stony Hill.. ·....·..·...... -1 Disboro' ·......·····.····.. Poplar Ridge .····..··...··.

.

I

I i

637.6 29618.6 24156.2 278'>.A.8 32725.l 26761.2 8i79.4 9049.3 5682.2 768.4 5091.7 8542.7
9-~.8

40 24 27.30

-.

I 40 22 14.30 l 40 18 02.77
40 17 51°.00 40 21 08.62

I 158 123 01 40 51 06
104 39 25 16 44 45 339 36 54 270 44 39 307 57 58 85 32 47 222 46 51 283 5213

Lawreneerille, (signal) .····. / 40 18 05.01 Hezel's Farm. (2) ······.··· Lawrenceville, (spire), ·····. Mepleton, (2) ·············

I
! j

284 28 46 l!l6 43 42 159 38 13 90 47 01 127 58 13 265 30 40 42 49 17 103 5558

Poplar Ridge ······.·...··.. La wreneenlle, (signal) ..····. Lam"enceTille, (signal) .······ Hezel's Farm, (2) .········.. Hezel's Farm, (2) .··.··.···· Poplar Ridge_. ···· ·: ········

5.14
3.23 0.44 2.89 4.85 5.24

00

t:>

ca

United States Coast Sufvey.-Geograplzical Positi011s.
___ N_am_e_o_f_st_a __ tio_n_._ _ _L_a_t_itu_d_e_._,_Lo_ng_itu_d_e_._ _I
Q
I fl

Section IL-New Jerseij and Pen-asylmnia.

/!ketch B, No. 3.

!1~

.Azimuth.
0 ,
N

l_____ T_o_sta_tio_n_____
Princeton Seminary . - · - - .··. Poplar Ridge. __ ····· ----···
Poplar Ridge ······ -----.... Disboro' ···. -----· .···. ···. Disboro' .··· _·.·····. ·-·-.. Mount Rose .·.·.. ·-----....

,_B_a_cl_azi_·_m_ut_h_. Distance. \_D_i_&_81l_c_e_.<-D-is_tan_oo_.
88 59 3S I 25 4'2
o '

!

Q

I

II

Cold Soil, (2) ·· - --· ··-· --- · Cranberry Steeple ··· __ · · · · . Mount Canoe..............

40 20 37.84 40 18 23.68 40 19 37.76 40 19 3.5.36 40 00 25.66

74 42 13.90 74 30 48.32 74 51 19.98 74 47 18.30 74 41 53.02

268 57 55 181 25 40
~2

'~

Metres. \ 3766.5 2976.0

Yards. 4118.9 3254.5

Miles.

2-34

1.85

113 53 15 01 42

293 45 53 142 04 06
104 50 25 69 20 33 53 03 31

17606.2 8535.4 3.5502.7 12457.7 7447.2 5705.2 39973.5 3'2712.8

19253.6.
9334.l

10.9\l

5.30

284 34 45 249 15 13 233 00 47 90 46 03

386'24.7 136'23.4 8144.0 6239.0

W-06
7.74 4.63 3.54 24.&1 20.33

Pennington Seminary .·· - - - .
Amey ···· ···------··----·
NEW .JERSEY AND P.ENNSYLVA.NU.

Mount Rose. ___ -· ......... . Mount Canoe .····..·.·.·... Mount Rose ·· --·· ......... . Newtown._ ··.·· --- _-· --- - ..

270 43 26
3.57 30 53 3-25 38 C9

177 31 34
145 38 09

43713.8
35773.7

l>Wlteare Riur,from Tnwt011 to Philaddphia.
Trent-0n, (Presbyterillll eh. 40 13 10.23 40 09 41.77 74 45 29.54

spire.)
Centrerule ···. ---- ··.·····

! i I I
!\.

305 32 49 5 03 12

SttJDV

Hill.. .... ·······-·-·· ~fount Holly ····.· ·-··......

125 39 52 185 c2 14

19103.l 24275.5

20..."90.6 26546.9

11.8'2'
15.08

14 49 58.10
74 54 42.02

1

I 346 3.1 01 i 2'24 41 45
178 13 03 313 56 49
~

StaclUiouse-----···--···---\40 09 56.38
W~OI>\'--_-········---· .·.

4.0 ~'2 &..00

7'\ ~ 'E> .74.

38 1.'2

'b''- ~\JI

\

Mount Hollv .·..·. - --· -·· ·. .

~enton.,(Presbyreri11Uchurch)~ ~4

Newtown................... Arney .... --··.............
~\...c."\;;..~O"Q.\\e ...... ._ . . . _. ·-~-

166 34 56 44 ~ 358 12 55 134 05 04
1."~ '2\', ~\

18252.5 f 19960.4 9047 .8 '\ 9894.4 9384.1 10-26'2.2 25330.7 27700.9
6284.6
·~-9

5.83
15.74
3.91 '\.'"n

\N~v.-town ······ ··-······-···

5'2 40 29

6872.7
~-(\

,.

:Name of station.
Attleboro' Acadewy,(cupola). Thoma.s ··· _····· __ ··· _·· _.

Latitude. a ' ,, 40 10 50.63 40 13 11.9'.l
Ji

Longitude. o , " 74 54 58.27

Azllnuth.
Q
I II

To stationJ

(Back azimuth. { Distance.

f Distance.
!
!

Dista11ce, 4.79 3.89 3.43 3.80 3.0-2 3.24 1.59 4.54 5.52 L52 3.20 2.19 3.63 3.54
3.89 1.56

----;----;~
0 41 19 308 25 06 52 41 23 135 23 04 286 36 39 3 43 04
72 12 26 161 15 59

Metres.

l~Y.-a-rd-s-._,___ M:_ms-.
8427.7 6849. 7 6039.8 6895.5 5318.1 5702.8

1

180 41 16

I 74 58 00.17
I 74 56 37.62
74 53 2"2.14

!

128 27 20 232 39 23 315 21 07
1C6 3$ 46

, Newtown.................. ~ Wynkoop.... ·· · . . . · · · . ·. . . . Newtown---· ·····:........ Attleboro' Academy Cupola... Wynkoop . · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Newto\\"11 . . . . . · . · . · · . · · · · · .
N ell"to\>ll · · · · . · · . . · · · · · · · · . Attleboro' Academy Cupola...

7706.6 6263.6 5523.0 6122.6 4863.l 5214.9

l

Watson ····.·····.··. - ···. Hartingale ····.···· - .· - - - - .
Oxford ···················.

40 12 11.77 i' 74 55 08.65

183 42 55 40 14 "5.JO 40 10 252 11 19 311 14 55

25ru.5 7309.1 I
~8.5

I

~-3

7993.0
9709-3 2675.1

21.421

165 47 33 111 37 55
154 53 43 40 10 10

1'l"enmrn · . . . . . · . . . · . · · · . . .
Attleboro' Academy Cupola. . .
~ewtown........ ·. .

345 46 33 291 36 53
334 52 40

2446.2
I

B· · · · · u

···. · · · · · . · · · .

40 12 :l'l.19 ' 74 53 17.54 40 09 48.27 40 10 50.68 74 58 44.83 74 54 58.39 75 00 58.93 75 02 42.31

·· · . · · · .

5143.2
3523_3

I 5624.5
~3.0

Attleboro' Academy Cupola... Wynkoop ..·.·...···· ,. · · · . Attleboro' Academy Signal . . . Wynkoop.................. \Yatson ······.···.··.. _. ·. . Attleboro' Academy Signal ... :Pleasantville . . . · . ..·..·.·· Attleboro' Academ; Cupola ... Churchville ···..·····.···.·. Chnrchn1le ······.·········· Vancleve ················ " ·.

220 09 05

Pleasantville...............
Attleboro' Academy, (eignal). Churchville ······· ,. ··.····· Vanclel'e ···········.···· _.
Milea ·····················

18-1 26 14
250 13 16

4 26 26 70 15 44
308 25 25 354 26 16

5834.5
569-2.6

6380.4 6-2"25.3

128 27 39 174 26 30 278 53 05 315 47 28 253 fill 12 208 27 06 257 10 49 356 02 29

6261-0 2512_6
8632.6 4550.7

6846.8 2747.7

40 11 34.07
40 09 07.751 40 11 14.06

98 57 02

135 48 5.5
73 55 11 28 28 13 77 12 03 176 02 3(;i

I

9440.4 4976.5
12497.9 5613.5

5.36 2.S-J
7_10 3.19

11428.51 5133.2 2784.4

75 02 53.70

I

3904.8

l

3044_9 4270.2

1.73 2.43

U?lited States Coast Si1rrey.-Geograpliical Positions.
L&titllde.
--~~

Section IL-.New Jersey. mid Pe1l'1lsyli'tl111a. ~·etch B, No. 3 ·.
/
To stationStony Rill ····..··..··..··· · Mouut Holly................ / &ck azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distfillce. / Distance.
0 ' ,.

Longitude.
/ o ·' 74 48 24.58

I

.Azimuth.
a ' " 293 41 49 254 42 2-2

\

r--1~----------

Q

'

II

falsington ······.·····.··· .\

40 11 50.61

113 50 45 174 43 17

i I
1

Metres. l"aT11s. \ 21500.5 23512.3 21819.3 , 2&.'<60.9 )
11445.3 5771.3

I
I

Miles. 13.36 13.56
7 .11 3.59

Claybl\llks ················· \ 40 07 11.49

\

14 47 33.41

94 49 30 I1 143 26 23

1 Trenton Presbyte1iau Church.: .,.~ 4 ~ 5 0 Centreville ···.·.·..·. - ··.·. ; .... " 46

3 4

·

12511\.2 j 6311.3 1

White B.ill ······.········· / 40 08 19.49

74 43 33.661 163 00 3S

105 35 47·

1

'frentou Presbyteliar. Church.1 342 59 23 Centreville · 2135 31 39
Trenton 307 37 56 Cb1ybanks ·..···..········· · 1 2'i6 14 27

Whitehorse ·····...······.. ;Bordentawn, (&n11pa.rte's Ohserrawry.)

40 ll 10.70: 74 42 07.51 40 09 17 .57 . H 42 24.14 40 09 49.10 40 05 37 .68 40 OS 49.95 40 01 18.0U 40 04 45.91

127 40 06 46 17 56
62 03 04 94 00 35

I ! Clayb!Ulks ·················. !
Turkey Hill ··············· - : c111ybauks ..................

Pr::~)~~1~~~-~~~~h-i

··i

9376.1 9459.2 6034.1 1G672.9 10782.l 5422.6 10413.8 5752.6 10138.2 7797 .5

l!i'253.4 10344 3

l
1

5.83 5.88 3.75 6.63 5.15 6.70 3.26 3.37

6598:71 11671.6 9.064.8 11791.0 I 5930.0

241 59 48 Centreville ······.·········. i 273 55 42
1

Turkey Hill ······.·········
JJristol, (Klnzey's Hotel) ····
~rdentown,

74 46 09.73
74 51 03.32

22 10 44

87 38 G2
2'21 51 04 239 47 10

Clayb!Ulks ·················· : 202 09 50 Ct!utreville ·····..·····.··.. : 267 35 34

I 5248.6 I 5739.7 I
8289.21

I

I
I

J

·I'

41 54 13 59 ~9 25

(tl11g-pole} ·····

14 42 29.99

98 36 lS
67 07 OJ

Ceutrevilfo ·.·············· -\ 2T8 31 29 Clayb!Ulks ·················· , 247 03 45

11388.2 j 6200.9 : i ll743.0 8527. l [

6.47 3.57

I

~······ ...... ·.·········

n

56 10.JO

185 26 35 277 36 55
171 45 57 282837
100
~ @.

llount Holly ···· , ·..·... , .. ·/

Stack-holll!ll ................

I

6 99 41 42

~~

6-61 4.84
JO.Ol 8.23

!
\

l6l20.8 \ 17629.2 J,3'439.1 14477 .9 1

I

Cmna Coll~ ············.
·"W~e ······ "'"··· ....

74 53 43.47
1-'\ -'\\\ \o\.43
.

Stack-house ................ ! 351 45 19 King .·..········.··.······ \ 208 27 03
Chi111toC\>l\ege ····· , ····· ····\ ~ 31
t>tw·~Qw-e
()9

9ti'H.3
7291.0
i~;;.o

10579.5 \ 791'3-~ \
11)1'\0.~

\

\!\;}

1>1

\~

····.. "-··· ....

~ ~

<\\l

6649.6

7'271.8 \.

Name- station. Latltmle. ---------;--=--=·~-~--=-~-·i-Lo~n=~~tn-d~e·=i-Azim~~ut_h~. ~;----1'-o_stati_o_n-o_·~~-i--Bac-k_azunu~·--th_.·:Iof
lteJmont · · · · · ........ ~ ····
.Andalusia · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
lWsehill....... .·····.·····
a , " o ' ,,

_n_ist_.an_ce_.[
Mares. 2033i.o 13004.5
16403.0 5943.7

Dm~ce. f_n_mtan_ce_·.
9-~.4
14221.:J
17937.8 6500.0 6934_2 j Yards.

40 os 19.48 40 04 ~ .40 40 04 07.78 40 03 10.10

74 56 ll8J3.5 74 57 03 .15 74 68 41.08

318 ~ 56 358 02

o

'

"

:u

l!~wt non; · .· · ·· · · .· · · . . .

King........ . . . · .. · · . . . . · ·

138 ao w 178 02 36 119 21 17 167 47 20

o

'

'

I
i

j

I
I

Kiles. 12.6a 8.0S
10.19 3.69 3.94 11.32 3.38 1.17

299 14 49

Mount Holly ·········..····

347 46 46 3"25 37 29 ~4 04 45

King .···········...· ······
King---- .......... ---··· .......... ..
:Molillt Holly ............. ..

145 39 01
114 12 2-J
129 31 :J-l

6340.9 18220.1 543L6 1880.9
14577.0 32515.3

199-24.9
2056.9

Cowperthwalte. ..· · ..· · .·· · Clapier ....... ...... ......
Chestnnt I1ill, (ftag-statl')....

I

74 59 06.8.3 15 09 48.35 75 l i 08.~

309 29 28
198 57 29

King .·.···.·····...·······
Bosehill ...·.··········.····

18 57 46 21 31 28 93 33 11

5!:!39.81

40 01 09.:l"l
40 04 :l'J.94

201 29 03 r,3 18 31
~

Willow Grove ............. .
Mount Holly ..·············

15941.0
35557 .8

9.06
20.20

33'J 11 09 53 21

Clapier ...··.··.........·.. Willow Grove ............. .. Clapier ...·....·......·.. _.
, Pine

152 12 39 49 57 16
359 39 14

7102.8 11300.2
23910.8 14902.2

7767.4 l:l334.1 26148.1 1 16296.6 I 16905.8 19698.9 I

4.41 7.W

Chew............. · · · · · · · ·

39 48 13.89

75 09 42.28
75 17 56.20

179 39 18

I Davis..................... 39 55 36.96
Vu:initg of Pkiladelphia.
Glranl College............. 39 58 23.58

Z72 39 17
2"28 26 29

319 17 28

;Clapier .·.·..··...·...·.·.· Chew ..................... . I
I
Pine Hill....... . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Holly.... · · · · · · · · · · · ·

Hill .····...·...·.·····

14.86
9.26

92 45 57
48 31 43

139

~

45

15459.3 18013.4

!
I

I

9.61 11.19

75 09 M.-09 75 08 20.27

322 06 55
~2014

142 13 42
84 34 67

24697.6
32756.4 309"23.4 ' 21233.7

27008.5
35821.4

15.34
~-35

Christ Church · ·· · · ·· · · ···· 39 56 59 .66

I Pine mn ............... :. ·..

Mount HoJly.... . . · . . · . · . . · ·

79 23 47 i~ 40 44

.19.21 13.23

United States Coast Survey.-Geographwal Positiml8.
__

Section IL-New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

Sketch B, No. 3.

N_~_e_o_r_s_ta_ti_o_a_ _~_L_a_t_k_·_·_~~--~-d_e_.~__ A_ri_m_d_.~l____ Tu_s_ta_t_~_____1~~~~~~~1~~.
0
I II

0

I

~,

Q

I

JI

Q

,

II

St. Paul'a Church, (spire)...

39 57 44.56 39 57 09.46

75 08 11.62 75 09 06.38 75 OS 33.89 75 08 41.90 75 10 12.14 75 08 40.40 75 08 28.52 75 08 23.17

160 01 36 116 20 43 77 16 05 2 57 34

Clapicr . . . · . . · · . . . · · . · · . . . . Girard College..............

340 00 :tt 296 19 37

Metres.

6715.6 2712.4
12896.9 16533.7

Yards. 7344.0 2900.2

Miles

4.17
1.69

A.reh Straet Church . . · · · . . ·
St. Peter's Church, (Phlla.).. Btate House SpJre, (Pbfla.)..
Beck'sSbot'.J'ower, · .,, ·.. , Eight-square Spire..... . .. ·

Davis...................... Chew...................... Clapier . . . · . . . · · . · · . . . · . . . . Girard College.... . . . · . . . · ..
Pine Hill................... Cbe:w... . . . · · . . . . . . . · . . · · . · Fishcove.......... ......... Gtrard College ... ,..........

257 IO 24 182 57 11
348 18 24 330 5S 58

14103.7 18088.2

8.01
10.28 5.42 2.44 13.33

39 56 3-l.23
39 56 52.61

168 19 13 150 59 50

8720.8 3924.1
21434.5 16061.1

9535.8 4291.3
23440.l

321 08 18
5 07 46

141 14 20 185 07 07 78 52 31 12 24 01
340 01 27

l75(j3.9
10539.6

6.62
5.99
1.24

39 57 20.38
39 55 45.96

258 48 15 Hr2 23 49
160 02 14 170 45 13 163 41 42 155 0-J 10 156 47 13
78 36 57

9637.8 1995.4

2182.l 5608.6
11011.7

Girard College...... . · · · . . · · Clapier . · · · . · . . . · · · . . . · . . . ·
Clapier ..··· , .··.·· .··· ·. . · Girard Coll~ge ... , .·· , ...... Clapier ...·... , . . . · . . . · . . . · Girard College.............. Girard College ...·...··....· Clapier .................. .. Girard College ............. . Clapier .................. .. Cl&J>ier .·..··.·.···.·····.. G~ Cu\\ege .· .:"···········

350 44 29
348 40 51 335 01 15
336 46 19

5128.7 10069.5 9656.0 4809.8
5088.7 2185.9
1371.8 4358.3 3019.9

3.19 6.26

Sparks' Shot Tower.... . . . ·
Factory........... · · · · ·· . ·
llonUII}ent Cemetery .······

39 56 02.18
39 58 37 .58
39 58 51.24

10559.5
~259.9

6.00
2.99 3.16 L36
0,85

5561.9
~390.4

Co:nmissioneN' Hllll, (Ken· singt-0n.)

39 58 16.30

.

:: :::: \·:::.
151 40 55
"ia

258 35 59

:m

231 38 59 30 28

1500.2

4760.1
3302.5 62":;?5.0

2,71 1.88
3.76

!174 14 57 3:H3937
317 13 '23 2.&> '23 ~

6058.1

or. \9.23
.

un 1s '29

\\Y.>~I;\ ~

9405.'2 10'2-%.3 l;\1\la.~ \ '1~3-~ \

Section fL_:.1ViJw Jersey and .PemtsylcanUi. ·Sketch B, No. 3.
.

.¥

Name of station. Fishcove, (Hatehis) .····...

-,,-1 ~ ~ 2~.811 o "' \-o-, I I
75 03 33.67 69 48 lo 120 19 34 40 00 52.51

Latitude.

I

Longitude.

r

.Azimuth.

I

ChnstChureh .·.·······...· ; 249 4<> 01 Clapier. ..···..······..· 300 15 2-1

_

To station-

I
I

Back azimuth. /Distance.

o: "

I
:I

nistance.

Ii

Washington Hunter, (1)

----1
I

I 74

---1

.

7247.4 7925.5 j 10-292.4 , 11245.5 17974.7 16583.7 16904.6 1726.5 3469.3 12"248.3 12013.l 10041.2 5685.0 4960.4 13749.5 12512.8 1567.3 3S078.9
2ti953.3

M~tres.

Ya~ds.

I

/msta.nce.
Mila. 4.50 6.39

58 48.73·

Washington Hunter, (2) ---- l 40 00 52.73

I i 74 58 57.20
74 58 20.84 75 0-2 17 .26

9156 45 734955 61 45 49 91 56 35 136 19 03 12 0-2 30 107 15 05 80 38 26

Clapier .···.·.·······.·.... j :l/149 31 GirardCollege .····.····.... l 2534258 Christ Church ..·····.··.·.· 1 241 39 46 Clapier .·.· .··. .····. ..···. 271 49 36 Cowperthwaite. -- .·..·.··.. Washington Hunter (1) ..···. (,'lapier ..···...··..·······. Girard College. -.· - . - - . - - - - Clapier ..··..·.·..·.··. ---Girard qpllege ...·....··.·..

I 16436.7

i 15649.6, 17113.9
15169.3 15449.0 1578.8 3172.4 11200.3 10935.2 9182.0 5198.6 4536.0 12573.0 11442.2 1433.2
34820.7 24647.1

9.72 10.21 9.43 9.60
0.98 1.97

Rancocas -'----·· ----·- ---l!orris Hill ...... -----· ... . Camden, (church spire)- · - ·.

40 0-:l 33.10

316 18 33 19-2 0-2 12
2:37 10 07 260 33 40 334 13 56 307 26 35

39 59 2L'78

6.96 6.82 5.71 3.23
2.8~

.
0

t::;;

(')

39 56 41.06 · 75 07 00.19 i 154 15 44 127 28 27

Rockwell's House .··... - - ··
Germantown Spire ·········
Lukens--------~----

39 56 37.16
40 01 02.16 40 06 32.18 40 02 41.03 40

I 255 223 38 39 I 13 00 75 10 48.10 I 295 43 41 261 15 05
75 12 00:02 75 02 10.30 75 07 01.52 75 03 27.41

Girard College ...····..·.··. Fishcove ..·.·.······..·..·. Fishcove ...··········.····.
Clapier ······.·····..·····.

43 40 04 75 18 29 115 48 20 81 15 43 173 12 49 118 57 54 148 27 2"2 190 03 0-2 281 22 03 260 14 59

7.81 7.11 0.83 21.63 15.31 5.85 6.64 5.73 6.05

.····.

I

353 10 57 298 48 08 328 25 08 10 03 53
101 26 08

Pine Hill. .···...·····.····· Mount Holly ...···.· -·-- ···.

Cherry Tree Signal ····· ---Brideaburg Foundry, (signal)

Fishcove................... Christ Church..............
Clapier .·.·..······.······· Girard Colleie. - · - - ·····.···

9-115.7 1069-2.3 9-214.9 9742.9

10296.7 1169-2.8 10077.1 10654.5

09 .10.16

70 19 08

, United St.ates Coast Su?l?ey.-Geographical. Positi-01is. - Section IL_,;.New Jersey and Pennsylva1&ia. Sketch B, No. 3.
Name of st&tion.

Latitude.
0
I

Longitude.
0
I II

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To stationGirard College.............. Clapier .· . ..· ·· · . .· .... .··.

Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.
0 , ,,

\l

Bridesburg .Arsenal, (flag. stall".)

40 00 26.24

75 03 40.16 75 01 34.00 75 04 10.34
75 13 57.97

66 56 05
98 39 50 53 30 57 16 25 55
28 53 27 81 53 25

246 52 05 278 :i5 53 233 29 52 196 25 27 208 52 29 261 49 44

Metres. 9642.8 8831.0

YCITds. 10545.1 9057.3

Miles. 5.99 · 5.49

George.Knowles............
Five Mile Point............

40 01 14.68
39 59 01.43

Bridesburg Foundry. · · · · · . · . Morris' Hill .. . · . . · · · .. . · · · ·
Wood's Point............... Girard c.ollege.. . · · · . . . · · · ..

3345.7 3631.7
3386.7 S-239.2
3S381.6 3lOOi.4

3658.8
3971.5

2.08 2.26
2,10

3703.6 9010.1 41972.9
3390"2.2
lSc,~'9.7

5.12
23.85 19.26

Clark . . . · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · .
Moorest-0wn Spire.... · · · · · ·
.Evesham · · · · ··· · · · · · · · ·· ·

40 00 12 .41
39 57 .W.27

270 08 4l 317 26 21
252 08 49 JOO 45 44
112 12 18 230 00 37

Mount Holly. . . · · . . · · . · . . . · · Pine Hi!L...... .····. ...... Mou11t Holly... . . . . . · . . . . . · .
C!&rk · .. · · · · · ······· ,. . · · ·

90 25 01 137 35 47
72 15 03 280 34 39

~

74 56 42.09 74 53 20.81
T5 02 03.80

14511.8 25007 .7

27347 .7

15.54 15.72 7.33

9.()'J

-~.~

39 56 00.45

Clapier . . . · . . · · . . . · · · . · · · · . Mount Holly.... · . . · . · . . · · . . Mount Holly...... . . · . . . · · . · Pille HiU ..··· , ·· ,,... .···.. Haddonfield ..····..··· , ..· , Mount Holly... . . . . · · . . . . . · .

29"2 01 43 50 04 42 58 01 44 156 42 17 301 26 30 37 15 08
22 44 oo 108 l9 43

25293.2 11798.4

27659.9
1290-2.4
2769-~.o

.i:Q
·

Jladdonfield ....... ···· ····

39

~

50.37

237 l'.>2 03 336 40 30
121 29 57 217 08 56

25322_0
10051.8 90'26.4

15.73
6.25

1099'2.4
9871.0 24919.5

Gibbsboro'................

39 50 17.57

74 56 39.88
75
~

2'4787.3
11943.4

5.61
14.16

Mount Hope..............
Lippencott,(2) ........... ,
l\obb\ns, (2)....... ...· ··..

39

~ ~-50

08.66

288 09 1l

2~

41 53

Yard......................
Chew .... , . , ... ,, , ....... ,
Davis.... · · · · · · . · · · .. · · · · · · Chew.....................
Dans...................... \ C\\ew ........... .,., ··· ..,\

13060.9

24691.l
22836.4 15548.4
20084..1 \ 1.a&.V>

27001.3
249'~-2

7.42 15.34

39

4316.9~

75 l8 :W-21

182 01 36
~

5157

2 01 57 53 57 35
7 01 28 6-\ ~ '\3

17003.3
2-26\9.3 l7335.6 \

14.19 9.66
12.85
~-~

39 M 31.29 \ 75 19 ft.75

187 00 20 \ ~ \6 l.9

I, I Lazaretto, (1) .············ i 39 51 33.96 i
0 , ,,

~~~~

Name of station.

(

Latitude.

( LongitUde.
0

I

ll.~~1
0
I ,, '

.Azimuth.

'

To stationChew ·.·.··.···.··.·..·...

{Back azimuth. r-Dist~ce. (Distance. rDista~ce.
.
Metres.
0 ,
II

I

II

I
1

I
1

75 17 52.231

11 23 00 297 51 48 12 22 09
298 12 18

I I Robbins, (2) .· .'... ·....· ··.. 191 21 49 117 57 0-2

13-296.8 1318'2.2 13311.3 12966.8 14546.9 15637.8 12-275.4 17372.4

Yards. 14541.0 14415.71
1'

Hila. 8.26 . 8.19

Lazaretto Flag-st.a.ff ········ 1 39 51 32.89 . 1 15 11 42.10 .
Leiperville ···············. 1 39 52 2'2.50
1

Robbins, (2)...... ·. · · ·· .·· . 1 192 20 53 Chew. · · · . . . · · · . · . · . . · · . . . . 118 17 26 Robbins, (2). .· .· · ·· · · · · . · · .

14556.8 lUB0.1 15908.1 17101.0 13!24.0 18998.0

8.27 8.06 9.04 9.72 7.63 10.79

j 75 19 15.52

1 I

2 31 40 : :: :

Chester Catholic Chnrch ···· 1 39 51 02.20
\

I 75 2119.521
\

1 2fil 19 19

1

:::~:.«~;~~:-~·-·.·-~~~~ ~~~~
Chew.....................

:: : ::
107 26 45

18-2 31 23

Thurlow .················· ! 39 49 38.12 ; 75 22 52.54

,

I
I

I 243 23 25

I
I

334 26 25

Lazaretto, (1)... ··· ·· · · · · · . Robbins, c2).... . . . . . . · . . . · .
Leiperville .················

63 26 37. 154 28 27 52 26 30 162 19 13

Lamoken ················· i 39 50 36.87 \ 75 22 13.66

i
Del.aware Ricer..
Tbompeon' a Point ·········.

I i
i
I
l

I
39 50 31.83 : 75 18 04.50

I

I
I

!

I 23"2 24 36 342 17 36
91 31 28 153 41 24 96 53 34 177 30 33 291 39 59
207 27 03

8730.1 . 7983.1 10488.4 i 11469.8 5342.1 11835.0

I
i

i

4.96
6.52 3.32 7.35

Robbins, (2) .···············

5842.0 ' 12942.4

l
I

. =

Lamokeu ···..···.·····.··.
Leiperville ············.···· Lamoken .·········.······. Leiperville ..······.···.···.

271 28 48 333 40 38 276 51 36 357 30 29 111 41 15 27 27 34 7 27 38 54 30 41

59"25.3

3807.5 4431.71 3791.8 3087.5 2560.9

Man Island. ··············. f 39 50 19.67
Ridley Creek ······· 2······ : 39 51 08.81 Chester ·········· \ 39 49 40.27

75 19 08.591

Oppo~te

,·., , ..... I
15 20 20.24

4846.4 i 4146.6 i 3376.411 2800.5 3011.5 2280.2 i

:~::~Il

3.68 2.37

2.75 2.36

Thompson's Point ..·····.··· Leiperville ·.···············

I

I

I I

1.92 1.59
1.71 1.30

187 27 28
234 29 55

i .Man Island ·················

, Ridley Creek ·······.····.··

2753.8 i 209"2.4 I

United State$ Coll$t Survey.-Gcographical Positions. Section Il.-Ncw Jersey and Pennsylmriia. Sketch B, No. 3.

N_~_lllll_e_of_sta_ti_·o_n_.- 1 \

Latitude.
o ' "

!

Longitude.
o ' "

i

Azimuth.
o ' "

To station-

I
/
1

Back azimuth.
0 ' "

I~istance.
/

\Distance. ,Distance.

Crab Creek ..····..··.··.. \·

39 50 36.40 I 75 17 20.33 75 15 23.37

i

I
I

156 52 34 104 19 25

/' Lazaretto (1) ..···.......... . 336 52 14 Ridley Creek .·· .'........... 234 17 39
1!'

Metres. 1930.2 4044.5
2792.6 3848.8 1750.7 2991.6 1673.0 2424.6 2995.7 2544.2

Yards. 2110.8 44.22.9
3053.9 4208.9 ·1914.5 3-271.5

Miles. 1.20 3.51
1.74 2.39 1.09 1.86 1.04 1.51 1.86 1.58 1.63 1.69 1.38 1.52 1.33 1.5.1 0.98 1.06 1.50 1.33

Isaac ·········..·········· 1 39 50 44.84
1

84 39 28 1131115
343 21 57 49 37 57 73 31 2-i 119 44 54

Crab Creek ..··...·.······· I 264 38 13 Lazaretto(l) ..·····.······ I 2930939
16.'l 22 11 229 36 56

Tinicum .············.· ···/ 39 51 39.24 , 75 15 44.45

_

I
't

I Isaac ..··.··.···· : ····· ·---l I Crab Creek .···.·····..···· !
!.

Billingsport. .···········..
I

39 al 00.24

75 14 15.SS

I Hog Island .····.·········· ! 39 51 57.79 i
Mathew .·················. FortMiftlin.... ·.···· ······ Fort;lfifilin, (Bag-staff).....
39 51 ltj.54

1

75 14 00.141 75 12 23.33

i~ ~~ z~

Ii;:~u~·-·::::::::::::::::j
I IMathew.................... Hog Island.................
I Hog Island .·.· - · . . · . . . · . · . .
Mathew .····..··.·....··...

,

Isaac .······..·...··.··..·. . 253 30 39 ' Tinicum · . · · · · . · · · · · · . . . · . · 299 43 57
1

~ ;~:
298 55 43 259 20 41
178 53 50 247 11 30

.

!

I

1829.5 2651.5 3-276.0 278"2.3 2875.1 2976.7 2429.4 2678.3 2429.9 2660.0 1723.0 lSil.2

i 118 56 45 I 79 21 53

! Hogisland .·.····.·····.··· I Billingsport .· :. ...···· ······

2629.1 272'2.0
2221.5 2449.1 2-222.0 2.l3'2.4 1575.6 1711.1 2H2.4 2142.4 \
1~.3 \?.\.1~.1.

.

~

39 52 28.57

75 12 25.13 i 358 53 49 67 12 31

I
I

39 52 28.57 1 75 12 25.SS;
I

358 25 51 67 0-2 37
49 00 49 133 57 31

178 25 53 2-17 01 37
229 00 18 56 58 1?3 43 08 237 20 32
'M4. 39 5&
'&14. \.';!,"""'

WoodburyCreek ..·...··.·. 1 39 51 50.06

.

\
"B.00. \\an\;........ . . · · .. · · · · .
·

!

i

75 11 33.291

i

i Mathew................... 1
Woodb1;1~Creek ····.··.···
Fort Mifl1in...... . . . . . . . . . .

~' Fort ~lifilin .····.··..··...· \313

South League Island ·······. 39 53 06.051\ 751109.20\13 43 23 57 21 21

2638.1 \ 2342.9 '
14.95.3 \ 2ma.4.

~ '\'>'.?. ~-'2o\l \

'il'> "\.\\

~ -~

"\.M 4.\\ ()(;
~4. \.~ "'~

~utn League liillmil · · · · · · · ·

·1fort.1"ill\\m. ······ ------ ----

'

Oiu/ed S~ Coast' Suruey.-Oeo D'7'qnk:tU .Pos~Um.s. 0
( Latitude.
, ''

.

Scar.'On ..IZ-.Ncw Jersey and .Pemzsy7tama.
To station·· Back azimuth.
o , "

Sketch B, M.-8.
Distance. /Distance.
Yards. / 2"203.4 I 2952.4 i
971.1 4856.9

----------------·------ ----------------- ______,____ ----1--RedBank,(flag-stalf) .. ----·i

Name of station.

Longitude.
o , "

/

Azimuth.
o , "

Distance.
Metres. 2014.9 2699.8
888.0 4441.3 2-247 .4 3900.3

l
I

o

39 52 17.35

75 11 01.59 75. 11 2"2.86 75 09 41.21 75 09 33.35 75 07 45.54 75 08 27 .90 75 07 27 .36 75 07 24.32 75 07 43.73
I

!
i

.

99 54 01 46 01 15 338 33 44 18 52 26 Ill 33 43 85 10 00 50 13 17 85 19 55 87 49 27 108 31 04 332 12 40 40 50 27 88 10 37 12 26 45 122 20 46 28 03 47 52 46 35 332 33 33 51 11 34 20 10 30 275 26 58 348 56 24

FortMifilin ···---~---··--·Mathew .....·.. --··---·---·

279 53 07 2"26 00 21

M"ilS. 1.25 1.68

i Schuylkill ·.····· ·--------· I 39 53 32.85
Eagle-Point .. __ .· _-- __ ...

-iI
I

Sonth League Island ..·.. - - .. : 158 33 53 Mathew .....·..·......··... : 198 51 53 Sonth League Island .....·... ! 291 32 48 Fort !Iifilin .·.........·..... 265 08 20
Red Bank ..··.. ·-·-···-----, 230 12 29 Sonth League Island ..... __ .· , 265 18 56

I I

39 52 39.28

2457. 7 4274.0 i

I
I

1

0.55 2.76 1.40 2.43 1.45 I.35 1.71 J.76 1.34 I.66 0.90 I.25
1.11

I North League Island . - ·. - - . i 39 53 Il.77
Big Timber Creek ··...·. --·\ 39 52 42.68 39 53 44.62 39 53 46.Il

~:~
2750.5 28-26.6 2159.3 2663.4 1433.8 2003.3 1791.8 1078.6 1317.8 845.9
258.3.9 1679.8

=:ii
3007 .91 3091.1 2361.4 2912.6 1573.4 2190.8 1959.5 1179.5 1441.1 9-25.1 2831.2 1837.0 1264.2 1041.9

No. 3 ·· - - - - - · - - ·········.

-I

I

Eagle Point................ North League Island .. _._ . _.. Big Timber Creek .... --- .... Eagle Point .··.·· ---- ·. - --· No. 3 ..................... . Big Timber Creek ..·· --- ·...

267 48 12 288 29 52 152 1:3 07 220 49 33

I

Gloucester Point ...···.... ·

l
i

268 09 58 19"2 26 33

Fish Club, < 11ag-mur) ·· _- __ · I 39 53 13.54
Powder Wharf............. Mickle.................... No. 39 54 10.47 39 54 37.24 39 54 40.81

No. 3 ............ -·-··· .... i 30-2 20 05 Big Timber C,eek ...· --· ... . 208 03 32 No. 3 .··..... --- ....·.. -- .. Gloucester Point. . . . . . . . . . . . No. 3 ..··.. ---.··· ...·.. ·... Gloucester Point...... . . . · . . l'rfickle .· -. -- __ ...··..······ Powder Wharf........ . . . . . . 232 46 08 152 33 45 23110 40 200 IO 14 95 27 29 168 56 29 ·

0.67
0.82 0.53 1.61 I.04 0.72 0.59

75 07 02.97 75 07 51.43

I.....................

1156.0 952.7

United States Coast Suroey.-Geograpltical Positions.
Name of station.
Latitude.
0
I II

Sectimi II.~New Jersey and Pennsylvaftia.
To stationNo. I ..................... . Mickle .................... .

Sketclt B, No. 3.

Longitude.

I

.Kaighn's Point ············· · 39 55 42.89 / Navy Yard, (Philadelphia) .·· \ 39

I Smith's Island .············ / 39 56 17.99
Philadelphia ·Walnut Street

55 46.971

I 75 08 14.52 I 344 57 21
75 07 56.31 75 07 27 .22 75 07 22.69

~ ~ ~-041

.Azimuth. I ----0
I
If

Back azimuth. 'Distance. : Distance. Distance.
Q
I II

Metres.

Yards.

Mila.
1.2'~

12 51 08 340 34 27

192 50 56 160 34 46

1963.8

2146.7
2U2.7 99-2.9 1215.3 1049.9 1584.5 850.4

2147.6 2347.6
2310.4

1.33 l-31
0.62

277 15 52 332 57 06

i No: 1-;····:···-· ......... .
: Kaighns Pomt ...····...···. : Kaighn's Point ·..··········. , Nary Yard ................ .

!

164 57 37 97 16 19
152 57 21
204 18 50 185 00 IO 234 18 34
253 39 43

1085.8
1329_0

Ferrv. Cooper's Pomt .·····. . :....

I I
I
I

24 19 02
5 00 14 54 18 53

39 56 34.08

i K. · .·...·...···.. a1ghn' s P omt 1 , Smith's Island .·..·.·······.
! Christ Church ........... --\Vahmt Street Ferry ·..·· - - .
Cooper's Point .............. . Market Street ............. . Screw Dock .............. .. , Cooper's Point ............. .
''

'

1148-1
1732.8 930.0 1555.4 1303.8
I

0.75 0-65 0.99 0.53 0.88 0.74
0.69 1.10

39 57 12.58

73 40 19 5 09 59

1422-3
119-2.2 1108.9 1762.9

185 09 56
162 46 33 206 55 38
236 35 46

Screw Dock ··············· , 39 57 46.!>2
Richmond ········· -- - - - · -· 1 39 58 15.62
Philadelphia, (Market Street)l

i
I

75 07 36.53 75 06 39.93

342 46 24 26 56 00 56 36 22 27 34 26
245 32 18 303 29 34

1212.7 19-27 .9 1759.1 2398.2

I 39 56 55.961i 75 08 10.17
I
!
I
I

i

!

207 33 59 65 32 49 123 30 0-2

1608.6 I 2193-0 :
1238.0
,I

I
I

1.00 1.36

i Wahmt Street Ferry .·..····

: Cooper's Point ............. .

i

1222-7

!

i

1353-8 1337.1

0.77
0.76

-

l

Delaware Ricer, S. of Chester.\

:

I
231 23 35 278 35 36
: Ridlev Creek ·.···········.. \Man island ................ .
\ O'\)\l<ls\te C'10..te" - - - - ·· - - - - - ...

Chester------ ···········. 1 39 50 33.04 \ 75 21 03.33

'l:uIDr.ingb\im.Q.~t.-~-----\ ~

512412
98 36 44

1767 _9 \ 2758.7 \
2.U'-.<\. \
'lM\....

1933_3 3016_8
2.313.4 '2.9-1.\. ...

I.IO
1.72
1.31 \..66

<\.\\ U.<\.I) \

'i'- '2.\.

<\.l).'M

~"C,

.............

- - - - - · ......, ..... ..

Uiured &ufe.r Caan Swrrq.-6eq,,,oropAzeui' .PD,¥{rzns.
_Name of stationTon1Un's Island West.c..... / Latitude.
, ,,

·Sea'WAi II.-Hezo-:Jersey and·.De/atcare.
~,~
'

S.k/t:A Bi J\-0. 3.
Distanc~.

I 39 48 48.96 I 75 22 31.28
0 0 , ,,

~ngitude.

Azimuth.
0

, ,.

I

To Btation-

/Baek azimuth.
0

DiBtance. ( Distance.
Mares. 1598.5 138-2.6
Yards.

, ,,

161 33 19 239 57 03

Thurlow .. - ·.··.·· _. ___ · _.. Tollkin's Island East ..· _ · __ . Thurlow.··---·--·---·-··-Tonkin's Island Ea..'t ·--- ·--Ma.rcllil Hook .······ ----·--Thurlow. -- ___ . _________ · _. Marcus Hook ······· --- ··· _. Opposite Marcwi·Hook ······ Marcus Hook .···· -...·· _··. Opposite Marcus Hook ···· - . Old :Man Creek ·.····. -----· Naaman's Creek ··-- ..··. --· Lodge··-·-·---- - -- --- .· -- . Naaman's Creek .··· ---- ..·· Old :Man Point .····. ----·--Lodge·---·····--··--···--·
Dupont's Wharf ·· - -· - - -- -- . Old Man Point ··· - - - - · - - - . - ·

341 33 05 59 57 35 49 58 39 75 19 37 343 26 52 24 17 08 66 47 16 102 56 17 28 36 11 62 0-2 43 91 15 45 52 26 40

1748.1 1512.0 3139.8 4410-4 2082.0 4404.6 3072.4 3505.8 3703.4 2678.7 3603.l 3217.7 3030.7 5206.3
~-3

Milu. 0.99 0.86

llarcus Hook ·· ~-----~----·
Opposite

39 48 38.241 75 24 24.971 2-29 57 40 255 17 54
I

Marcus Hook .· - - -1 39 47 39_07

I l

2871.1 4033.0 1903.9 4027.7 2809.5 3205.8 3386.5 2449.5 3294.8 2942.4 2771.4
4760~

1.79 2.51

15 24 02.11 75 26 13.52 75 25 33.11 75 27 51.56

I

Nu.man's Creek--····· ·-~--1I . .

I

163 27 07 I 204 16 22 I 246 46 07 282 54 48 2Q8 35 27 242 01 43 271 14 17
232 25 37

.

1.18 2.50
1.75 1.99 2.10 1.52 2.05 1.83 1.72 2.96

311 48 0-2.32

~
0 ~

Old Man Creek ······ -·"--·\ 39 47 01.84

t:;

- ·····:······ .... ····I
9ldllan Point ······· ······
,Dup,ont'· Wharf'--~---··-

39 47 04.15
I I

·

-~

..

l
!

39 45 37.24 39 45 01.98

l 15 21 21.92 I
I 75 29 17.26 i
I

165 15 32 199 59 00 248 21 57 208 24 23 144 11 57 204 20 27

I

345 15 13 19 59 44

--- -I

J>ellll ~rove--~-----------·

==~~: 1

Christine

Light-house, or

.

! I 39 43 59.74 I 752819.101

I
I

68 23 58 282605

2953.0 4284.4 2366.7 3301.2 3973.2 4040.5 4224.6 2657.3

4685.3

1.84 2.66
1.47 2.05 2.47 2.51

324 11 20
24 21 54 69 48 52 35 27 42 179 09 47 209 50 3$

I HN.~1
39 46 16.71
I

2588.2 3610.1
4345.0 4418.6 4619.9 2905 ·.9

75 30 55.69 I 249 47 11 215 26 39 75 28 21.681 359 09 45 29 51- 13

I

Penn Grove·------·---· ···· Dupont's Wharf----·· ·-- --· Penn Grove --- ···· - - .·· - -- . Dupollt'1 Whatf ···-·: ······

2.62 1.65

co
0
~

Uttitea "States Coast Surcey.-Geographical Positions. Sectron IL~New Jersey and Delaware. Sketch B, No. 3~
Name of station.
Black Horse.. ... .. · .. . · .. Latitude.
Q
I II

I

Longitude.
0
I 'I

J __A_zim_ut __h_._1-_ _ _ T_o_s_ta_ti_·o_n-____
0
I II

J Baek

azimuth. ) Distance.
' "

Di~tance.1 Distance.
Miles. 15.58 14.44 15.66 3.64 13.61 3.05

39 54 45.42 39 45 36.73 39 47 28.44 39 38 08.61 39 42 39.49 39 44 55.82 39 45 57.52 39 38 17.28 39 26 16.76

75 25 06.62 75 12 00.61 75 12 59.73 75 2'.l 45.32 75 42 03.43 75 33 35.61 75 30 00.89 75 44 48.40 75 21 45.94 75 33 49.20

298 42 41

336 01 26

Chew ...................... 118 52 33 · Lippencott (2) .............. \ 156 05 40
Black.Horse ................ I 312 05 24 Chew ..................... 1 34 11 33 Black Horse...... · · · .. · ·· .. Chew .. .. . · .. .. · .. .. · .. · .. Mount Hope...... · .. . .. .. .. Lippencott (2)...... ........ Acton .................... _ Burden .. .. · .. · .. .. .. .. .. ..

I

0

Metrea. \ l'ards. 25t:68.6 27414.3 23231.5 25405.3 25210.0 5858.6 21912.1 4901.4 27568.9 6406.8 23962.4 5360.0

West.....................
Caffery ...................

132 13 48 214 10 04 128 01 01 253 21 58
169 37 36 212 34 12

1

307 53 15 73 24 03 349 35 26 32 36 55 106 56 44 125 57 17

A.cton...... ... ... ... .....
Grand View ............ ..

26834.8 : 29345.7 11284~9 I 12340.8

286 44 24 305 44 50 308 58 05 70 53 09 324 17 57 71 16 44 350 58 54 76 57 39 124 04 05 173 37 25 109 21 ()6 139 07 22
Wil)
.\u~

28837.5 34426.5
19943.l 1280'l.3 17797.9 18608.6

31535.8 37647.8 21852.9 14000.2 19463.2 20349.8

17.92 21.39
12.42 7.95 11.06 11.56

Wilmington · · : ····· " ......
Shellpot.. ·········.·····.

Acton .. .. . . .. . .. ... . .. .. ..
Grand Yiew .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Meeting-house Hill .. .. .. .. ..
B~ck .<~)....

129 05 00 250 47 44
144 2'2 35 251 08 37 170 59 40 256 47 59

Acton.... ..... .... .... ....

Iron Hill..................
Barker.--·--····--·......

Princ1p10.... .. . · .. .. .. · .. ..

... ... . .. .. .. ..

11044.2
22257 .5

12077.6
24340.1

6.86 13.83
24.73 6.34 10.35 11.18
12.'2.3
s.~\a

Iron Hill.... .. · .. · . .. .. .. .. 303 49 25 Burden .................... \ 353 36 56 Iron Hill ................... \ 289 14 05 Gnmd View ................ , 319 01 58
1)av\"-">··.--·· ..............\

39793_3 , 43516.8 10209.6 \ 11164.9

Fort Dela'Wlll"e · · · · · · .. .. · .

39 35 18. 79

16658.9

18217 .7 17986.5 \19669.5
1.'M'.3i -'=>

~<al\.~

C"-""' ......................\

~ ~ \Wo

l\ .\G 1:,

.\ 10071 .G

~15~8.8

1..\1.l'M.9

Name of Btation.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

{

Longitude.
0 , ,,

I

.Azimuth.
0 ,

To stationWilmington · · · · · · · . . · · · · · . . Shellpot.... · . · . . . . · · · . · · · .

/ Back azimuth. { Dist11nce. I Distance. Distance.
0
I "

~~~II~~~~~~~~~~

u

.Metres.

SCuD, (1).... ...... ...... ..

39 43 :Jj).01 39 41 14.14 39 40 56.57 39 36 54.09 39 39 03.38 39 38 19.55 39 42 02.84 39 40 45·_33 39 39 35.71

75 20 22_.73 75 22 28.26 75 20 32.89 75 21 21.79 75 22 46.20 75 23 37.05 75 33 29.56 75 35 01.35 75 33 27.34 75 45 51 27

93 02 59 10.3 20 27

277 54 32 2e8 14 17 184 03 42 293 12 53 211 20 37 281 08 15 319 04 33 348 49 00
305 01 56 320 55 44

19061.8 14495.8 5735.6 17301.3 6065.3 2801.5 3041.1 8174.3 189C6.4 16441.4 18780.0
1~24.9

Yards . 20845.4 15552.2
6272.5 189'20.2
0032.8

Jlliles.

11.84
9.01 3.57 10.75

Allen.....................
Scull, (2).... · . . · · · · · · . · · · . Big Mannington Hill ....... .
Beeves ····· -~-- ··········

4 03 53 113 20 00
31 22 02 101 09 28

Acton · · · · · . . . . · · · . . · . . . . . . Wilmington · · · · · . · · · · · . · · · . Acton....... .·.... ·..... ·. Allen...... ··.· ··.... .····.
Acton ··.··..·············. Allen ·.···..···.·····..·...

3063.6
2325.7 8939.2 20675.5 17979.8

3.77 1.74
1.89 5.08
11.75 10.22 11.67 10.45 7.54 3.33

139 05 27
168 49 43

125 08 51
141 00 2"2 130 38 51 147 06 48 95 28 12 178 28 06

Wilmington .·...·..·.....·. Shellpot. ...·...·.·..·.·.·.
'Vilmington .·.··.·.·..···.. Shellpot ·.··.·.···.···.·... Grandview"····· ·······.··· Wilmington .··.············ Grandview ···.·············· Wilmington ················ Grandriew .···········.·... Wilmington ...·········.·..

.I

Ellet ······· -- ·.···.·.·.·.
Sawyer ···················

310 32 29 3-27 02 43 275 22 44 358 28 02

I 20537_318399.2
13446.5 5868.1 11652.9
87~.3

12-296.0 5366.0 10655.8 7989.7 13538.8 9874.6 8667.5 20669.9 27422.5 2'.>650.9

i

Baar ·············.·.·····
New Castle, (spire of Episcopal church.)

109 20 32
194 48 01 114 4833 178 52 54 218 45 41 237 55 06
108 06 41 126 31 12

!
I

289 16 02 14 48 56

6.62 4.96
8.41 6.14 5.39

294 43 04 I I 35i:l 52 49

148f'.5.6 10798.6 9478.5 12604.0 29988.4 28051.0

Chestnut Hill ·············.
Salem Spire ···············

39 39 00.45
39 34 2.5.42

Grandriew ········...····.· Wilmington . · · · · · · · · ······ · /

I

38 48 06 58 O'J 56

12.84
17.04 15.93

75 27 37.98

Chestnut Hill. ···.··.··.···· ' 287 5.5 04 Grandriew ··········.······ I 306 22 00

Unit~

States Coa$t Surr:ey.-Geograpliical Pontio11s
Latitude.
0 ,
11

Sectfrm IL-New Jersey and Delaware.
To stationChestnut Hill..... . · · · · · · · · · Grandyiew ···· .·····. ······ Back azimuth. 28'2 32 27 326 46 53 53 49 52 144 58 13 69 27 38 109 33 51 91 47 11 141 47 44 317 23 18 353 43 37 245 22 13 273 48 23 181 42 29 221 04 45 162 07 41 182 29 49 161 10 39 117 25 40 75 13 27
35-1 16 00
'l~

Sketch B, l{o. 3.
Distance.
Metres.

Name efstation.
McMullen....... · · · · ·· · · · .

Longitude.
0
I d

Azimuth.
0
I //

I

Distance. Distance.

39 37 36.87 39 36 44.50 39 35 30.27 39 38 35.02 39 28 46.70 39 38 02.71

75 37 47 .22 75 47 32.43 75 54 23.28 75 57 31.38 75 46 24.61 75 47 12.60 75 47 20.8.5 75 47 08.25 75 47 44.46 75 59 07 .83
~

102 37 36 146 49' 37 233 48 08 324 55 51 249 21 32 289 26 50 271 39 03 321 45 44 137 28 23 173 44 20 65 26 48 93 54 58 1 42 36 4ro9 15
~

11825.5 11153.2 4846.8 9829.4 14646.7 16488.8 18199.4 7251.7 16892.0 14818.3 11297 .2 14787 .5 9'251.4 15313.7 10853.6 13203.3 12991.4 9147.0 23030.2 11822.6
11"6'.\.4
~-S

Yards. 12932.0 12196.8
~-3

Miles. 7.35 6.93

Gray'B·mn............ ....
Riggs'

Iron Hill.................. Buck,. (2).... .... ..·... ··..
Iron Hill.................. Buck,-(2)...... .... ·..····. Iron Hill. ...···....·..···.. Riggs". Hill ...........··.·.. Riggs' Hill. ..·.·.·..·.···.. Gray'.s Hill ..·.............. Riggs! HiIL.. . · · · · . . · · · · · . Gravi;lly Hill.... . . .. · · . · · · · . Gray's Hill................. Riggs' Hill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Iron Hill.... . · . · . . · · · · · . · . . Gray's Hill.... . . . . . . . . . . · . . Iron ·mn. . . . . . . . . . . ·. . . . . . . G11111_9.view......... ··· · · . .·

3.01

10749.1 16017.2 18031.7

6.11
9.lQ 10.25

Rill.................

Gravelly

run..............

19902.3
7930.2" 18472.6 16204.9 12354.3 16171.2 10117 .1 16746.6 11869.2 14438.2 14207.0 10002.9 25185.l 12928.9
12.645.4
~-Q

1L31 4.51

Bohemia Ma.nor............

I!J.50 9.21
7 .02 9.19
5.74 9.52 6.74 8.20 8.07 5.68
~

Ash.. ·· : ·· ------ ······ ···.
Head of Christine.......... Shickerville. ·····. ···· ···.
Missimer ··· · ··· ·· ··· · ··· ·
Ma.uld~n'a M.o~w,in....

39 41 44.37 39 43 52.24
39 44 56.00 39 29 12.01
'39 '39

06 12 2 30 04

341 08 47 297 22 02
255 03 38 174 16 ~
&i "'~ a'.\ ",?.'2. 15 .\'.)

··..

:Bu_J~ ~2)...... ·.·····. .·..
Princ1p10. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
"Prlnc\"io · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ~~~ 1&.<mnu..l:o.. - ". - --- ·

-

14.31 7.35

'Egg mll .··.····.. ---~ ----

~.'l1 \ ."" "~ <\\..'l1

4S t'>'.\ wt.l. "12. 'l1

Ntmre of station.

(
0

Latitude.
~

Longitude.
0
I
/f

(

Azimuth.
0
I II

To stationIron Hil~---··· ··:···· .····. Mauldens }fountam .······..

/Back azimuth. / Distance. / Distance. /Distance.

oBuck, (1)---· ···· ····· ···. Church Landing Point...... Wilmington Town Hall.....
Kimsey ··· ~..... ···· ·····. Great Creek ··········· - · · ·

w

,,

I
I
,1,

39 32 29.31 39 39 36.75 39 44 26.56 39 38 03.11 39 38 33.0-2 39 35 50.40 39 35 58.11 39 34 38.14 39 35 38.05 39 33 47 .41 39 18 48.79

75 43 23.39 ' 169 18 05 74 59 13

I 75 31 00.87 l
75 32 42.43
75 33 0-2.74

89 28 06 159 28 40 344 51 03 125 29 00 163 23 46

r
II

!

I

0

i
\

~9 11 11 254 49 12

'

"

I
/
I

I Metres.
23364.6 3495.4 10507.1 9-259.4 1554.0 41()0.1 2915.3
3344.2 I 3261.9

I 109-20.5

Yards. l!~-3
25550.8
114~0.3

Miles. 6.79 14.5~

I N~w ~astle Spire ..····.·... j 269 26 32 !Wilmington ..··...··.·.·... 1 3392701
Cb_ur~h Landing Point.. .···. / 164 51 38 Wilmington ..···..·.. ···--·I 305 28 26

3822.5

2.17 6.53 5.75 0.97 2.55 1.81
2.08 2.03

10125.8 1 1699.4' 4483.8 3188.1 3657.l
3567.1

i
i

! 2'25 11 27
!

Church Landing Point .. _. - - . i 45 12 45 New Castle Spire....... .... 348 23 30 Kimsey·--·-·.............. New Castle Spire ...··. _ ·. _. 106 01 36 53 39 55 49 37 34 17 36 48

i

75 35 17 .56

!

286 00 10 233 38 45

Red Lion......... ···. .·..
Finn's Point...............

75 3S 24.25 : 2'29 35 25

197 36 05

Kimsey .····· ··-- --···- ---· Great Creek ·····. ___ · _·· - · .

6310.3 5258.1 8862.7 683-2.1
2737.8

6900.7 5750.1
969-2.0

3.9-2 3.27

"32 45 ,., j
75 35 11.59

12 13 38 347 35 41
34

Port Penn ...··.· - ··. ___ ·· - . 19-2 12 48 Elsinborough Point .. _···· - .. , 167 36 20
R~d ,LioD:.-··- ··.·......

5.51
4.25 1-70
2.73

Delaware City Spire........

144 29 21 I 235 45

Penn's Neck....... · ·· · ··· .
Beedy Point...............

75 3-2 16.88

!

I

Finns_ Pomt ····.. -···- .....

-·-·I

!

7471.4 2994.0

3"24 28 38 55 47 10

4386.7 9-23.7 5913.7 4270.5 3905.l· 14472.7 13676.7

4797.2
1010.1

1

75 33 44.89 ! 199 14 39

I

132 10 36 93 43 01 312 33 59

Red Lion .···..··..··

Finn's Point ..····...··..... ! 312 10 17 273 40 23

······1

6467.1
4670.1 4270.5 15826.9

0.57 3.68

Finn's Point .....····.····.. Elsinborough Point ..··.····.

19 15 16 132 35 15

2.65 2.43
8.99 8.50

Bombay Hook.............

75 26 05.49

217 34 50
340 14 07

Pine Mount_ ················ 37 38 44 Deep Water ················ 1 160 16 09

14956.4

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical PositWns.
Name of station.

Section IL-Dela.ware Bay.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 3.

Latitude.
Q
I /I

.. ae. Longitu
Q
I'

I i
i

.Azimuth.
0
I II /

Back azimuth. j
o / "
jl

Distanc~. \ Distance. \ Distance.
Yards. 19o"28.8 16138.9
8414.4 13272.6 5746.7 7174.9 6856.4 7159.3 9199.9 7040.l 4700.0 7217.1 4632.7 4257.7 3452.7 3557.9

~~~~~~~~~~-1-~~~~~

II

Liston._ .··.······....· __ . \ 39 25 00.06
I
I

75 32 34.55 : 269 53 00 iI 3205028 75 27 13.74
I

1 Pine Mount .····..... ---·-· i ".uvm [L b ay H ook -............. .

Round Island ·.··.····.··.. / 39 25 18.79

I
Stony Point ..···.. --· .···. / 39 27
4ppoqwnun,,,.. ···········.

i
1

I

85 43 29 352 15 34

I Liston ..··.....··..·..·.·.. '. Bombay Hook. ··...·....·..
i

90 01 01 140 54 35 265 40 05 172 16 17

Metres. 1813'2.2 114758.0

i.Jiles. 11.27 9.17
4.78 7.54

29.891
1

75 30 49.85
35 10.18

·

. . ,_,_

i

i

I 308 28 27 85 01 11
j 325 20 56
14 06 14 52 36 04
:l.'i5 36 25 f>9 16 19

I
II

7694.4 12136.9 5255.0 6561.0 6269.7 6546.7 8412.7 6437.7 4297.8 6599.6
4236.3 3893.4

I Liston ...... ·-·---· ·.......

I Round Island .·····.·.·····.
i Liston .....··..·.....··....

208 26 29 128 03 28
97 02 12 145 2-2 35 146 26 45 194 05 33 301 18 06 23'2 33 45 175 36 34 239 14 50 113 00 36 187 45 32

3.27 4.08

39 27 54.73

Port Penn ..···...·.·...··. ' 393117.20 , 75 34 04.55 Alloway's Point .········... i 39 30 04.7711 75 31 30.83
Elsinborongh Point .····.... [ 39 32 21.741 75 31 44.41 St. George's Creek .·..····.

I
i

1

! 75 I

! 276 59 27 I Stony Point .··....··.......
i 3-26 24 41
(
J

I
1'

3.90
4 01

! Stony
I

Point.. ...·.......... ( Appoquinimink .···········.

5:23 4.00
2.67 4.10 2.63 2.42

! 121 19 44
i
/ 1

i

[ PortPenn.................. / .A.ppoquinimink -·-···· ·····.

.

~

l 39 33 01.74 l
\

IPon Alloway's Point............. Penn ..····. ·--- -- ..·..
1

1 75 33 46.15

!

j 29-2 59 19
7 45 44

I Elsinborough Point.......... I Port Penn..................
\Alloways Pomt .............
1

I
(\
\

3157 .3 3253.5 240-2.7 3314.0
934.7 5781.4
~-0
<\~.'.!.

1.96 2.0-2 1.49 2.06

Reedylsla.ndLight-house.... j 39 30 00.15 1 75 33 49.41

~lt.Ttl.eya lil)uae ·····.······1

\i9

!

l~~ 20 56 i PortPe:in ..._...............
269 24. 14

\

\ 261 3151

Zi 28.ll

75

~ 51.67 \ 151 47 ()1
\
~'.!.'a. '.l9
~~~I\."\.

\87

35120 46 33 19 331 46 49 89 26 48
1A1'> <.M <;rt
·~ ~ ~

2627.5 3624.1
102-2.2
6322.4
4187 .3
~-<:\

A-ppoquiuimink ..····. .····· \t-0ny Point................
Ll...mn..... ······· ······ ····
~v...... ~~<;>\m. ············ ---··

0.58 3.59
2.38
'a..%

~U..el!i..bu~ ... ~"--·········

~ ~ l\'l..'.l:l

"l'<> "M. \\1'>.'1."l

Name of station.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0 , ,,

.Azimuth.

To station-

Back azimuth. ( Distance.
0

Distance. Distance. .Miks. 1.84

~~~~~~~~~-1-~~~~--1~~~~~·1-~~~~-1-~~~~~~~~~~

0

I

II

I

tr

Collins.................... DELAWARE B.A.Y. Bombay Hook North . . ·· ·· .

39 23 44.87

75 31 17 .88

141 39 51 251 02 57

List-0n · . · · · . · · · · . · · · · · · · . · · Barker . . · . · . · · · . · · . · . · · · · .

321 39 02 71 09 00

Metres. 2956.6 14459.5

Yards. 3233.3 15812.5

8.98

39 21 17 .20 39 21 46.22
!

75 29 46.01 75 30 18.9"2 75 25 40.49

149 36 21 231 09 03 312 01 01 214 0-2 25 4 10 34 108 10 57 89 12 16 323 29 31 103 07 13 164 33 20
96 41 41 179 50 2"2

Liston .····.··· ~ · · . · · . · · · . Barker...... . · · · . . . . . . . · · .

329 34 34 51 14 08
132 03 42 34 04 23

7968.3 14739.2 8170.9 7912.0 8224 .4 10424.5 838.8 14252.9 13181.2 14988.5 21524.6 14989.8 18423. 7 21855.0 11425.9 4979.2 8696.4

8713.9 16118.4 8935.5 8652.3 8994 .0 11399.9 917.3 15596.5 14414.6 16391.0

4.95 9.16

Bombay Hook Light-house ··
Arnold ···· .'···············

Bombay Hook ·····.·····.·· Round Island .·······.··.··. Bombay Hook ······..·.··.. Liston ······.·········.····
Liston ···.··········.·····. Bombay Hook .······.·..··.

5.08 4.9"2
5.11 6 48 0.52 8.86

39

2314781
I

184 10 18 288 06 34

Lis00n'sPoint .····.···· ·--.
Ben Dam ·····.·····.····.
Egg Island Light-house ...·.

39 25 00.47

I 75 31 59.48

269 11 54 143 33 16
283 01 34 344 31 34

c.o .

39 17 12.09 i 75 17 09.57 39 10 30.89 39 10 23.53 39 19 45.61

Bombay Hook ·········.···. Pine Mount ............... .
Deep Water ............... . Joscelyne ···.···.····.····. Ben Davis ····.·····.······· Deep Water .····.··..·····.

8.19 9.31
13.37 9.31 11.45 13.58

r

75 08 01.74
07 49.00

Egg Island Point ···········
Big Island.................

I 75

276 3"2 18 359 50 21

I

23538.1 1639"2.4 20147 .6 23900.0 12495.0 5445.1

133 11 21 97 11 29
81 13 10 341 54 38
198 20 46
~4016

313 05 27 277 02 08

75 18 14.08

Bombav Hook .····.·.·····. Ben Davis .·.··············.

2610811 161 55 28
18 21 56

7.10 3.11
5.40

Dw'11

Beach.............

39 20 32.91

75 21 50.90

Pine Mount .··············. / .Big hllwd··················

9510.1

105 42 31

5392.9

6897.5

3.35

United States Coast Survey.-Geograp'hical Positions.
Name of station.

Section IL-Delaware Bay.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 3.
Distance.
.Metres.

I

Latitude.
0
I II

Longitude.
0

,

I

Azimuth.
I95 59 52 247 11 I9 I06 5I 25 55 54 4I 37 54 16 308 50 38 220 17 27 157 20 47 8 25 41 80 19 19 IOI 51 21 138 54 32 100 57 37 353 21 35 I35 23 30 178 27 04 205 52 23 154 18 13 326 59 13 5l 49 ~

B11ck azimuth.
0

Distance. Distance.
Yards. 20864.4 10993.9

II

Goose Point ···············
:Bush Hill··----··----·---Hanis .................... Wheaton ··············· - ·· Hann, No. 2 ............... Garrison ·················.

39 15 05.87

75 23 36.30 75 I5 23.71 75 17 16.25 75 19 05.89 75 15 07.01 75 13 0-2.91 75 13 16.99 75 15 02.76 75 18 38.64 75 19 53.57
'l'<>
~

"

I

II

, ,,

Pine Mount .·····.····.··.· Ben Davis ······..·········· Pine Mount .·····.·····.·.· Dunks' Beach .· _·····.···.· Dunks' Beach . __ ··.····.··· Bush Hill .····.·····..····. Harris ..····.·..·········.· Pine }fount ·····.·· _··.···· Bush Hill ···.······.······· Harris ·..···.··.···.·····.. Bush Hill .····..··········. Hann, No. 2 .····.····.·.·.· Hann, Ko. 2 .····.·········· Garrison ..··.·..·········.. Harris .··.················· Hann, No. 2 ..··.·.···.····.

16 0-2 11 67 15 24 286 48 32 235 50 27 217 51 2-2 128 51 58 40 18 37 337 20 15 18S 25 34 260 17 52 281 49 52 318 53 13 280 56 27 173 21 43 315 21 55 358 27 01 25 53 15 334 17 24 147 00 16 23l 48 15

19079.2 10053.2 6816.3 11194.3 10704.1 3456.9 4055.1 3140.1
2725.8 3135.5

.Miles. 11.86 6.25
4. 24 6. 96 6. 65 2.15 2.52 1.95 I.69 I.95 2.14 2.81 1.67 I.81 2.83 2.34 2.81 2.67 2.7· 2.
2.
1.

39 23 56.56
39 25 06.89 39 23 26.60 39 25 24.01

7254.1 12-241.8 11705.7 3780.4 4434.5 3433.9 2980.9 3428.9 3763.9 4938.1 2930.8 3185.8 4971.6 4117.2 4938.1 4694.3 4782.5 3907 .9
4.4%.2
~71.1)

rn

39 23 33.66
39 25 07.50
39 23 21.96

3441.9 4515.6 2680.0 2913.2 4546.2 3764.9 4515.6 429"2.6 4373.3 3573.5
4~-~
~\..\)

:Buck .....................
:Mollllt Pleasant ···········. Hensted, No. 2 ............

39 22 55.14
39 21 M.55
~~~-~

Harris ......·· _·..·······.. Pine Mount ··· _..·········.
Big Island .····.······.·····
D\lllkl!.'
~ell.Cb. ··············

l)ayre --············--·-··
$\>.~\'a-ro. ······· -----~---·

-

\'i?..?A

~-:~~

"I)"'"'-"1 "Beacll · - · - - ·· - · - · - - · °D"-Y<" -~~-- ················

1.'*> '24.

~

\."M .""""'

Name of station.
Greenwich

---------1
DA·b ·····

I

Latitude.
c ,
/I

( Longitude.

(
J

Azimuth.
0
I /

I

0

/

I/

( To station(Back azimuth. /Distance. Distance. Distance. 1----------1 --------1

!

39 23 24.391 75 20 21.71

J

347 39 35

i Dayre .........··....·...·. 1
I
i
I

!

::::::::::::::::139 I
I
!
1

"231 >2

! I
I

167 39 53 Sheppard ..···...··........ i 214 58 35 27116 25 350 45 12 12 34 IO 248 08 39
28 36 17

I

0

'

"

Metres. 3151.5 1737 .6 1232.9 1470.4 8914.9 7430.6 4784.9 8621.3

Yards. 3446.4 1900.2 1348.3 1608.0 9749.0 8125.9 5232.6 9428.0

Miles. L96 LOS 0.77 0.91 5.54 · 4.62 2.97 5.36 7.29 11.S-2 3.87 3.79 2.79 4.33 2.55 1.42 2.77

'520

11.841 : : : I I Sheppard ....·...··........ ! , 110 45 18 Greenwich ............. -··· \
19"2 33 20 681142

CohauseyLight-house .····.. , 39 20 18.39

I
I'

75 2117.48 !

i Pine )fount ····.·.··.·..··. i
I

i

j Bombay Hook. ·····..·····. !

Thmnbcap .·····.·······..
Fortesque .····· ·..·····..

39 16 27.41 i 75 24 43.13' 39 14 09.39 75 09 59.99

I

155 33 55
2083428 118 43 13 77 07 58 101 06 12 316 40 49 76 32 12 12"2 oo 33

i Dunks' Beach ··...·.....·.. /

I Bombay Hook. ·····.·.····. \ 1 335 38 03

Flax Fann................

39 16 33.25 1 75 12 54.39

I

I~:.~~~~~~:::::::::::::::: I.! ~~: !~
Ben Datjs ..·......·......·.

~~~~:~ ~~:~
623'2.0 6095.3 4484.6 6902.0 4097.3 2"276.9 4451.5 4584.0 13915.6 10062.5 6815.1 6665 .6 4904.2 7613.4 4480.7 2490.0

i Fortesque ..·.··.·.·..·..··. : 136 42 45

!
I 1

281 03 24 256 30 28 301 57 46 286 51 04 11 09 36 219 45 56 286 36 52

. .

0 0

('";>

~

:Eaglelsland ....···...···.. 1 3917 46.00 1 ,i 7514 07.56

.Kantuxent __ ··· _ ·· _·· ___ ..
West Point .······.·.··.·.·

I
I

i

I

i Ben Dans ..···....·........
Big Island..................

I

39 16 33.54

75 14 25.95 75 15 10.69 75 00 58.06 75 07 45.94

106 52 48
191 09 26 39 47 11
106 38 48

I I
i

Ben Dans..................

Eagle Island............ . . . .
Big Island..................

I 39 19 03.05 ii
I

I Ben Davis..................
Fortesque .......... - .. - Egg faland Point ........... .

4868.0
5012.9 15217.7 11004.l

2.85 8.65
6.2-5 13.63

East Point .·.·...·.··.·... ] 39 11 28.35
I

!

Egg Islalld Point, (2) ······

·I
\

110 57 14 78 34 44 97 18 37 133 09 19

290 51 31 258 30 24
277 09 04 313.03 23

39 10 21. 79

.Ben p~via·····. ·····.······

Deep Water .····..·······..

I

21935.4 1~14.2

23987.9
.~246.6

11.50

~

0

~

United State! Cea.rt Su~.-Geographirol Positi<JT11. Section II.-Delawre Bay. Sketch B, No. 3.
Name of station. Latitude. Longitude. Azimuth. To station-

I
·-·--·I

Back azimuth. , Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
o ' "

I

:._.. __,_, p . . I 0 I II ..,uua.s omt ·····.········ 39 01 20.17

I
i

o / ,, o / u , 75 20 13.02 j 2'27 00 00 168 51 44

I

Egg Island Point, (2) .... ---47 07 5.1 Deep Water................ . 348 50 02

Metres. ' I 19836.0 245~7 .8
/

Ya7'ds. 26811.9 2169-2.1

Kues.
15.23 12.32

Port Norris ..·· _. .··.·····.. \ 39 14 33.03

I

! I Dividing Creek ·····.. ~ ··. · f

75

oo

51

.471 5g gg :: ~:~t fsf~l P~i~t:::::::::::: ! ~~~ ~~ :
73 39 31 23 37 38
69 18 45 4 30 01

i

l~~it~ 1~~ :~
7394.0 9874.8 4063.6 8426.9 26111.0 24652.0 26405.9 30484.0 8085.9 10798.8 4443.8 9'215.4
28554.2 26958.7

~:~
4.59 6.14

39 15 16.96 / 75 05 04.11 I'

Fortesque ............. 253 36 24 Egg Island Pomt .···...····. 1 203 35 54 Fortesque ........... Egg Island Pomt.. . · . . . . · · · .

Turkey Point .····..·.·.·.. ! 39 14 55.97 / 75 07 21.46 ! Muddy Creek ············· · l 38 58 58.86
I

I
!

I

l

/

1

········!'
1·

249 17 05 184 29 44

2.53
5.24
16.22 15.32

rn

75 18 28.29 i 216 11 23 165 05 IO

I
'ij

Egg Island Point, (2) ....·.·. ) 36 18 08 Deep Water ..·.......·...· · 345 02 23

.
0
(":)

I:;
~

TownBank ·····.·······... 1 38 58 36.94
Cape Henlopen .·········..

74 57 21.96: 145 26 52 i 91 2'2 50
I

I Muddy Creek....... . . · . · . . .
I'
,

! Egg Island Point,(2) ......·.
I !

325 20 19 271 09 33

28876.71 33336.4

16.41 18.94 18.70 15.16 15.27 18.81 8.40 17.05

i
!

'

33 46 45.11 i 75 04 44-55
I

138 48 18 ' 205 52 52

Muddy Creek .···.·.......·. 318 39 41 TownBank ....······...···. i 25 57 30 Town B:mk ..··...·.···.···.

3-2915.8 30099.4 24403.5 I 26686.9 24579.1 30"277 .2

Cape Henlopen Light-house.! 38 46 38.35

Plumb Point .··.·····.····. ! 38 50 11.33

I
\

75 04 43.241 205 36 11 J 139 01 11

I 75 12 59.40 I i 297 59 51
1

PilotTown .···········.··.

\\33

!

i ~fuddy Creek ..·.·.·.·...... I I CapeHenlopen ..···...····. I;
J

!

25 40 48 318 52 33 118 05 01 55 27 54

I 26879.0 33110.2
14797.4 30010.2 7100.5
I

23518 04

Town Bank ...··..·.·....... :

!

! 13525.4 27442.7

V.~L\l!}l."-hoo.Y.e.....

47 07.50 \75 0912.08 \ 276 04 54 57 58

'3S 4."I

~-~

"1'5 \W>

l)S.~ ~\.\> 11) '3S \ca~ lien\1;-pen. ···· ···· ···· \.~u 11 ~1
~1'2 ~

1\135

\Cape Henlopen ..···...···. .\ 96 07 39 \Plumb Point .····..·..·..... '\ 315 55 38
'l:o.....u 100Ua.······· ·---·· ··-·

I

m

W2 ~ ~

I\::: :::\
6493.0 \
~1

4.03 4.90
1.82 U.63

.1

2.'57'51.1

Name of station.

~~----·----1
Cape Henlopen Beacon ····· Ice-breaker West..........

I

Latitude.
0
I "

!

I I
I

Longitude.
0
I

{
II

.Azimuth.
0
I II

/

To statioh-

Back azimuth. / Distance. / Distance. /_D_is_tan_c.-e_ ·
0
I
1'

II

38 47 25.07 j 75 04 49.77 38 47 58.441' 75 06 41.791

I

354 fl9 59 85 07 51

IPilot Cape Henlopen ············.

Town ...··.·..······..

174 IO 0-2 265 05 07 128 38 40 246 34 06 61 30 33 140 27 57 71 05 59 6 55 33 20 20 16 85 35 16 89 40 09 160 06 03

Metres. / 123':L7 6352.9

Yards. 1354.6 6947 .3

I

Miles. 0.77 3.95

308 37 26 66 35 40

Cape Henlopen ..·.·······.. Pilot Town ....···.·····..·. Egg Island Point, (2) ·.·..... Muddy Creek ..····....··... Egg Island Point, (2) .···.... Deep ·water ...·.·····.···.. Deep Water .......···..··.. Egg Island Point, (2) ....... .

3621.6 3951.9 25772.4 11325.9 24401.6 10777.5 4913.6 23546.9

3960.5 43-21.7 28184.0 12385.7
26684.9 11786.0

2.25 2.46 16.01 7.04 15.16 6.70 3.05 14.63 14.28 13.81 Il.65 13.80 15.47 5.93 2.s.q 1.62 1.38 2.58
1.04 5.46

Bowers . .·· ·. · ·· ·· · · . . ·. · .

Kitt's Hammock- .·.. ······
Little

I

I 39 06 04.35 I 75 23 46.S-2 I I 2.50 55 52
I

39 03 42.04 , 75 23 28.20 I 241 20 38 3'20 24 47

Creek.~

186 54 59

rn
~
(')

.·.·.·····... \ 39 09 21.90

I

75 24 03.861 200 19 31 265 24 58

llahon's River Light-house ·. / 39 10 16.40

/
I
I

I
I
/

j

I
I

53i3.4 25750.2 2513-2.3 24301.6

75 23 43.43

I

269 30 04 340 02 43

I

Egg Island Point, (2) .·...·.. Muddy Creek .....····.·.·.·

.

~

::.:::::::::::::::! : :: ::: I:: ::·:
Elder Point ·············· · 1 39 12 39. 59 I 75 0-2 32.32

89 34 35
9 48 09
347 15 49 2134 25 50

~~~Is~~~-~:·.~~~:::: ::::I
Town Bank ..·····.·.·····.. West Creek .····..····.....

1 269 26 22
189 46 30 167 18 12 104 29 53 33 0-2 28 130 46 26

18749.1 22218.4 24889.8 9545.4 4172.2 2608.9

20503.5 24297.4 27218.7 10438.6

i
I

213 01 28 310 45 34

Port Norris ..·····..··.·.... Bird Island ..········..··...

I
i

4562.6 21353.0 II

'X

w:·.·::::: ::::::::::::1 "u

·

I 39 13 43.58

j

74 59 49.96 j 133 17 17 i 27 33 58

33.23 [ 74 59 47.70

l

Port Norris .···.·...·.··..· 1 313 16 34 Bird Island ..···· · ..·······. / 207 33 07 Port Norris .··············

89 47 33 204523

Bird Island ·················

·I

2'2'24.21 4147.2 1673.4

269 46 49

200 44 31

6569.0

l

2432.3: 4535.3 i

6000.1

1830.0 /

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.

Section II.~Delaware Bay.

Sketch B, No. 3.

___ N_am_e_o_f_st_·a_ti_'o_n._ _ _L_at_it_u._ae_.__ !--Lo-ngi_·_tu_d_e._ _ _ A_zi_m_ut_h_._, _ _ _ _ T_o_st_a_ti_on__ _ _ _ / Back azimuth.\ Distance.\ Distance. \ Dil!tance.
I
11

o

'

"

o

'

"

o

'

/1

Oranoken ·.·······..·····. 1 39 12 04.4i . 75 06 24.62 Pierce'sLaruling .·····.··.· \ 390454.33/ 745405.78 Goshen ······.··········..

313904 274 40 16 1171242 174 47 06 156 49 40 103 43 34 136 47 36 188 27 08

Egg Island Point,(2) .·...... 1 211 3813 Bird Island................. 94 43 35 EggislandPoint,(2) ........ West Creek................ West Creek .......·...·.·.. Egg Island Point, (2) ...· .... 2970406 354 46 41 336 48 41 283 34 21 316 40 31 8 28 16 14i 3S 36 104 42 26

I

0

'

"

Metres. 3il9.0 7575.0

I Yards. I 4067.0 8283.8

Miles. 2.31 4.71

I
j
r

2-2134.8 24025.9\ 10301-0111264.9 5724.7 I' 6260.4 21618.7 23641-6 23617.1 ; 25826.9 li549.6 19191.7

13.75 6.40 3.56 13.43 14.67 10.90 8.83 4.29 2.60 2.43 3.51 4.07 3.93 1.01 1.67 4.18 2.70

39 07 36.35

74 53 10.93 74 56 32.26 74 59 22.90

Fishing Creek .···········. / 39 01 04.08
Bobinson ·········· ······. / 39 1123.73

~

I

/ 284 39 34
1'

1

327' 35 14

IWest Egg Island Point, (2) ·..· ····J Creek .·..·. ······ ····1 IPierce's Landing .····....··.· West Creek .......··..·..·..
I
1 1

I

[L2

1 1

14218.2 6899.4

!
1

15548.6 7545.0 4583.7 42i3.5 6174.5 7169.8 6909.4 1772.0 2929.6 \ 7355.4 4749.8

~
~.

Carlisle ..····.·····.·····. i ; 3912 03.25
f

~,4

u

"'6 48.1"' v

Ludlum's Landing .········.

I

I i

39 10 38.46

~,4 50 50.00

03 35 I 315 7150 37 86 26 15 31 04 53

I 1 WestCreek .·..·...·....... j
I 1 West Creek................
1

I 135 04 53 Robinson ..·..···.··..···.. , 25148 59

4191.5 J 3907.8 I 56'6.2 1 .. 6556.31 6317.6 1620.4 i 2678.9 6726.0
1

~

IGoshen ...·...··......·.... !
I Ludlum's Landing...........
[ West Creek:................
i

266 33 47 211 03 24 280 34 52 339 15 16 193 42 59

McCrea .······ , ··········. /' 39 09 49.32 Stipso·n· .· -·.··· ............ 1 39 11 51.41 lfispilion.Light-hoUile., .··.. 1 \ 38 56 38.00

74 50 26.09, 10o 37 35 · 159 15 31

West Creek................

I

7~ 54 18.31
_

I

13 4!l ~~ 304 0 1 ,,...
3

I
I
\\

I McCrea ...........·........ , 124 03 58
\ Mud.dy Creek ..·.···....·.... \\ 00 20 35 1 : : 1:
t'>l
';!.5

"P{)~°t'~ hl~a.

····.······. \ '3S \).\.

~.oo \

7<> 18 29.37 \ 180 20 34
2

7a 1.7 .\a.In

\ ~: :3 ~6 \\~~:::::~::11-~~--~~~----_·:_·_·_
W~

t'>'\.

a~

14.uM.'y Cl:ee\\........ ........

~'.?.

:;:~: ::~: ~:·::
S-ll)S.7
0031.a

4343.4 \

5.13 .

·Name of station.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Hog Island.······. ····-·-· Potter .·········· -----···· Primrose·----··- ··-- --···

I

0

,

,,

0'"
75 16 25.17 75 20 41.75 75 20 11.44 75 18 39.64 75 19 50.08 75 14 35.09 75 12 19.81 75 11 32.41 75 12 29.88 75 08 08.27 75 13 55.04

'----01"

! /

.Azimuth.

To station-

f Back azimuth.

38 53 29.92 38 56 40.68 38 58 12.75 38 56 05.97 38 56 02.91

306 23 39

163 42 52
217 00 20 271 28 25 240 11 36 14 25 12 182 56 05 150 31 32
199 56 28 266 48 44
303 12 46 3"22 17 23

Mk--pilion Llght·house.... ....
lfoddy Creek...............

lI~il~~Cre~k------··--·····\
Potter ....·. ··---·-----....

Cape Henlopen ....·.·.· ·--- 126 30 58 Muddy Creek........... .. . . . 343 41 35 370144 91 29 48
60 12 41 194 24 53

, I

.o

'

"

I Metres. I 21006.3 I
10566.8

I

Distance. ( Distance. {Distance.
Yards. 22971.9 11555.5 Kiles. 13.05 6.57

i

5336.2 3188.6
2860.6 I 29'24.7 i 5337.9 4490.8 5771.5 1698.8 ' 1703.5.2 3774.2 11096.8 4889.1 10548.0 2508.8 11822.7 2748.5 4944.0 6548.6 14076.4 2162-4

5835.5 3487 .0 3128.3 3198.4
5837.4 4911.0

3.32 1.98 1.78 LS-2 3.32

Gerdes' Camp .······.· -·-Carpenter .. ·----·-·---·-· Slaughter Creek ···· _--·-..

M:uddy Creek ..·.....·......
Primrose ......·.·.....·....

2 56 12
330 30 34

2.79
3.59

liuddy Creek ..·.·.·...·....
Gerdes' Camp .... ---- .·.·..

19 57 19 86 49 28 123 18 56 142 18 24 98 08 19 348 44 02 111 07 53 207 06 42 10817 43 344 59 18

6311.5 1857 .8 18629.2 4127 A 12135.l 5346.1

1.06
10.58 2.35
6.89 3.04

38 51 48.15

Cape Henlopen ·..···....... Plumb Point ...··...·.....· _ Cape Henlopen .. _..··. ____ . Plumb Point ...·..... ______ . Cape Henlopen .....·. ·----· Fisher..................... Cape Henlopen .........··.. Plumb Point........... Cape Henlopen. . · · · · . . · · . . . Lewes Entrance...... ..·.·. Cape Henlopen............. Plumb Point................

.

~

Fisher-·---·---- ··.· ·----· 1 38 47 35.81 Lewes Entrance ...·... ____ , 38 48 48.24 Hazard ..·. - ··-·-· ··.··... Lewes Spire----·····-----38 48 45.2-2 38 46 28.28 38 49 16.33

278 03 34 168 44 27 291 03 43 27 07 07 288 12 51 164 59 37 263 57 37 131 14 20 289 17 48 218 21 29

11535.0 2743.6
129'29.0 3005.7 5406.6 7161.4 15393.5 2364. 7

6.55 1.56
7.35 1.71 3.07 4.07
el)

83 59 45 311 12 12
109 23 33 38 22 04

Holsten ·····.·· ----·--·--

1.34

8. 75

~

'""'

United. States Coast Sun·ey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. / Latitude.
0

Section IL-Coast of New Jersey.
To station/ Back azimuth.
0
I II

Sketch B, No. 3.

\

Longitude.

j

Azimuth.

--------!-----:
!
I N

IDistance. \ Distance. IDistance.
Metres. 31003.3 9384.5

Big Tree ······..·········. \ 38 45 44.63 Cape May Old Light-house .. 1 38 55 48.64 COAST OF "KEW JERSEY.
FRoM C.>.PE

7~ 1~ ~.60 21~ 4~ 4~
1,

258 30 25

TownBank .···············. Cape Henlopen .····..·····. Muddy Creek .··.·...······. Egg Island Point, (2) .······.

39 53 23 78 34 24 280 55 27 331 29 03

Yards.· 33904.3 10-262:6
33513.6 33490.8

Miles 19.26 5.83

74 57 38.90 ! 101 08 35 151 35 26

30646.l 30625.2

19. 04 19.03

Mn

TO GREA.T

EGG lliRBOR.

Two-mile Beach ············

38 57 26.13

74 50 40.10

I

45 16 I 102 45 54 58
148 07 42 245 40 09

Town Bank .·····.··.·····.· 28-2 41 03 Cape Henlopen .··.········. 1 225 46 08 Toll'U Bank . .···..···.····. Two-mile Beach .····.·.···.
328 06 19

9916.7 28372.4

10844.6 I 310-.27' .2 I 65SS.6 7791.9 2.,Q()5.2 4.676.2 5618.3 3313.0 7234.7 4552.0 12245.6 7114.8
6198.8 10180.1

6.1 6 17.6" 3 3.74 4.43 1.59 2. 66 3.19 1. 88 4.11 2.59

38 55 51.<H
38 57 14.12 38 55 50.42 38 58 55.59 39 00 56.64

74 55 09.77
74 57 31.95

=-=-----_-_-_-_-::::::1
Cape May New Light-house..

65 43 00

I
I

6024.9 7125.2 2565.2 4.276.. l 5137.6 30'29.5 6615.7 4162.5
11197 .8

185 2-2 18 306 48 11

5 22 24 Town Bank ..····.·····..·.. 1 126 49 40 Congress Hall ..··.···.·

····1

74 57 15.57 \ 178 16 42 269 38 30 74 52 49.60 14 50 58.48 .
74,

Town Bank ..·..·.·····.···. , 358 16 38 89 39 49 Congress Hall ·············. Congress Hall ..···········. Two-mile Beach .·.·········. Congre.ss Hall. .···.·····.·. Two-mile Beach ..···.·..···. 210 39 08 131 30 21

Week's Landing...........
~aming's

30 40 36 311 29 00

Point...........

I

"Nummy's I.sliw.d ··········· .\ 39 1>1 39 .51)

~7

32 42 52 356 05 56
71.l
~ Ill)

i

00.31 \

~2

212 40 14 176 06 08
\

6506.0 5658.4

I

6.96

4. 84
3.52
5.79

18

42.

Leaming' s "Point ······.··.·. \ 256 '29 54 212 ;,s '29 ~o-mile Eea.cll ·············

9iu.::.

\

lTniad S~ Ooast Suroey.-Oeographical Positions.
Name of station. Crese ····················· Cyrus .···················· Eldridge ·················. &Imes ··················. Learning's Beach North .···· Townsend ················.

&ctUm II.-Ooast q/Neto Jersey.
To station-

Slcetch B, No. 8.
Distance. [ Distance. /Distance. .Metres. 4372.6 4175.9 8336.7 6931.2 8139.8 5541.9 3404.9 6289.6 7349.9 4466.7 7460.6 6580.4 6636.0 3969-4 9337.7 7127.2 6658.2 6754.8 4263.8 3708.l 3233.4 3736.9
Yards. 4781.7 4566.6
.Miles.

I

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0

.Azimuth.
0

, ,,

, ,,

,,

I

I

Back azimuth.
0
I

39 03 00.05 39 04 28.55 39 06 03.41 39 07 32.71 39 06 26.06 39 IO 23.84 39 08 41.50 39 13 41.40 39 11 42.80 39 13 28.80 39 15 04.74

74 49 28.91 74 44 01.20 74 47 17.07 74 45 53.73 74 42 12.54 74 43 09.98 74 41 29.69 74 40 35.77 74 38 51.74 74 37 38.73 74 39 13.93

29 3115 306 29 00 70 55 22 40 57 48 358 41 07 301 50 28 36 01 43 334 31 48 84 34 29 35 47 04 349 20 29 38 42 06 71 31 38 142 40 13 7 58 13 31 17 11 68 34 28 34 09 24 95 14 46 28 11 36 37 22 27 32'2 20 11

Learning's Point. .··········· Nummy's Island ············· Crese .·.·········.·······.· Nummy's Island ..·····.·····

209 30 19 126 30 28 250 51 57 220 55 49 178 41 12 121 52 31 216 00 50 154 32 59 264 31 17 215 45 53 169 21 05 216 40 23 2.'>1 28 51 3'22 39 10 187 57 39 211 Ia 34 248 31 45 214 07 44 275 12 54 208 IO 50 217 21 35

"

2.72 2.59 5.18 4.29 5.06 3.44 2.12 . 3.91 4.57 2.78

9116.8 7546.9 8901.4 6060.5 3723.5 6878.1 8037.7 4884.6 8158.7 7196.1 7311.6 4340.8 10-211-4 7794.1 7281.2 7386.9 4662.8 4055.1 3535.9 4086.6
I

I~~·~.""""':::::::::::::
I Cyrus ...············.··.···
I

Eldridge ..················.

/ Eldridge ..····..····.······ Cyrus ..······.·····.·.····. , Holmes .·.···.·····..··.··. Holmes .................... Townsend ..····.··········. Ludlam's Beach .·····..····. Townsend ..·····.····.····. Townsend ..·....·.········. Ludlam's Beach .............

!
;

! Leaming'ij Beach North .·····

j

4.64 4.09 4.15 2.47 5.80 4.44 4.14 4.20 2.65 2.30 2.01

Luillam'e Beach .···········
Corson .··················. Mountain Creek .·····.····· Weakfish Creek.·.····.··..

1 Corson ..................... Mountain Creek .······..···.
Corson ..................... Weakfish Creek .............

B!Ackman ·············.···

142 21 11

2.32

United States Ooa.st Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Beasley's Point . . ·· ·· · · ·· . . Peck's

Section lL-Ooa.st
To station-

of New Jersey.

Sketch B, No. 3.
Distance.

I

Latitude.
Otn

Longitude.
0111

Azimuth.
0'11

/ Back azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distance.
0 /
II

39 16 46.91 39 16 11.77 39 18 38.78 39 19 08 .. 49 39 2'2 48.75 39 20 31.28 39 20 .52.S-2

74 37 21.48 74 34 51.52 74 35 02.95 74 30 30.65 74 31 11.49 74 27 57.42 74 33 19.98

3 52 21 40 33 23 38 35 43 71 49 56 356 3'2 3'2 43 54 34 48 56 30 S-2 01 45

Weakfish Creek. . · · . . . . · · · · . Blackman . . · · . . . · · · · · . · · · · · Weakfish Creek....... · . · · · . Blackman...... . · . . · · · · · · · . Peck's Beach............... Beasley's Point.............. Peck's Beach....... . · . . . · · . Somers' Point ..·· :.. · . . . . · . . Somers' Point............... New Inlet..................
New Inlet ..·.·..··········. Risley's Landing . . . · . · . . . . . .

183 52 10 2'.<!0 32 12 218 33 57 251 47 10 176 3"2 39 2'23 53 08 2"28 53 45 261 58 52 215 41 40 171 48 44
235 09 22 312 21 50

.Metres. 6123.0 4146.1

Yards. 6695.9 4534.1
7030.1 7240.7 4966.2 5234.8 9068.3 720-2.6 1038-2.0 7504.2
4&,~.5

.Miles. 3.80 2.58
3.99 4.11 2.8'2 2.97 5.15 4.09 5.90 4.26 2.78 3.91 2.93 2.99
~

Beach..............

6428.6 66.21.2 4541.3 4786.9 S-29-2.4 6586.3 9493.6 6862.1 4470.2 6288.7 4715.9 4812.8

Somers' Point..............

New Inlet.................
Risley'sLanding ........... Dry

35 44 07 351 48 18
55 10 59

Inlet.................

132 23 53
220 41 53 30 49 53

6o"77 .1

Leedsrille..................
FRolll lIJG!lLANDs oF NAn:srnK TO Gr. EGG li.uraoR.

Risley's Landing...... · · · · . · Somers' Point..... · · · · . · · · · ·

40 43 15 210 48 48

5157.2 5263.1

Nu.vesink ·················· Navei!ink Light-house .······

40 23 45.oo 40 23 42.43
40 19 00 .00

l·

73 58 49.77 73 58 48.62
74
1)8

126 08 31 166 24 57
183 16 14 2'21 17 29

Mount Mitchell . · · · . · . . · . · . . Sandy Hook...... . . . · . · · · . . Wyckoff.................... Pavilion....................
1

306 07 41 346 24 03

2234.3

2443.4

7524.5 19941. 7 29682.5 9213.4

S-228.6 21807 .6 3'2459.8

1.39 4.67 12.39 18.44

.1~-:r,~

.
36.62

3 16 45 41 26 30

I'olliemllll .·················

133 0-2 12 '&29 oo M

Beacon Hill ......... ~...... 312 59 07 M.Q\mt Mitchel. ············ \ '30 01 05

10075.5

5.72
9.77

lf>720.5 \ 17191.5 \

Unit-ed &mes Cua.rt &rvey.-GeognphicalJ'osirions.
Name of station. Lippencott ···············.

Section IL-Coast ef New Jersey:
To station-

Sketch .B, No. 8.
Distance. / Distance. Yards. 4952.4 7768.3 Kiles. 2.81 4.41

Latitude.

Longitude.
0
I II

I

.Azimuth.
0
I II

I
i

Back azimuth. / Distance.
. Metres. 4528.6 7103.6

I l
I

i
l

i

0

I

II

40 15 17 .63

74 07 18.27 74 02 45.79 74 01 25.80 73 58 01.68 73 58 02.84 73 58 53.50 73 58 13.90 74 03 21.63 74 01 07.42 73 59 52.30 73 59 34.71

83 32 44 164 54 23 33 37 16 71 10 41
2'2 30 21

o ' " Throckmorton .········· ···· 1 263 30 43 Polhemus................... 344 53 33

Garriell ··················· \ 40 20 31.69

Lippencott .··········.····. 1 213 34 19

Polhemus ..···.··········· ·

I
I

251 06 54

11628 .5 8750 .5 4931. 9 12564.9 6708.6 6474.0 6705.7 7045.2 7450.4 5783.5 4937.7 4532,2 12908.2 7468.3 2330.3 4374.7 6316.1 12530.3 9079.l 7584.5

12716.6 9569.3 5393.4 13740.6 7336.3 7079.8 7333.2 7704.4 8147.5 6324.7 5399.7 4956.3 14116.0 8167.0 2548.3 4784.o
l3m~.8
I

7.22 5.44 3.06 7.81 4.17 4.0-2 4.17 4.38 4.63 3.59 3.07 2.82 8.02 4.64

Burdge .···············.·. ! 40 22 59.43 Beach, (1). --~ ·········.·.

-l

lI

54 02 45
8£ 04 04 131 57 44

Garriell ..··..·..·.··...··.. I 20-2 29 29 Polhemus .··.·.··.··....··. ! 233 58 06 Garriell.... . . . · · · · · · . · · · · . . Burdge..... . · · · · · · · · · · . · · · ·
268 01 00 311 55 32

40 20 39.12

Beach, (2) ······.·····..·..

I 40 20 11.87
40 23 15.34

95 15 19 137 12 00 47 2'2 30 348 04 08
356 58 09

Garriell.... . · . . · · · · . · . · · . . . 275 12 16 Burdge .····.·············. ' 317 09 49 Garriell ..·.·..···..··...... 1 2'27 19 58 Beach,(2) ..·········.····.· ! 168 04 40
Beach, (2) ··.·······..····· · j 176 58 16 Burdge ···.······..········ 272 58 49

" ......... (2) ······ ········/

Ocean House, (fiag-stalf) ··· · j 40 22 51. 74
Shrewsbury Spire ·········· i 40 19 22.20

I
!

I

93 00 53 51 25 57 84 45 44 263 37 42 174 11' 54 139 41 23 99 10 28 150 13 24

I
Conover ········.········· 1 40 20 38.28'

Polhemus....·......·.··.··.

Throckmorton ·······..··.· -1'

231 21 22 264 42 20

Garriell ...·.·····......··.. 1 139 59 56 Burdge ·····.·.··.··..····. ; 354 11' 42

I

I

i.4s 2.12 3.92 1 .19 5.64 4.71

llierly Pole ··············· \ 40 17 55.55 West .···················.

I

40 16 16.24

196 36 42

I

I Ganiell ..·.·.··.·..........
Beach, (2) .···.·.···········

Garriell .....····..····..... Polhemus ..····...·.··.···..

319 39 30 279 04 49 330 11 20 16 37 38

6901 .1

I I

9928.6 / 8294.2 l

United States Coast Survey.-Geograplzical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude. Longitude.

Section IL-Coast of New Jersey.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 3.
Distance. \ Distance. , Distance.

1::-_Az_·_im_u_th_._I
)i

I
..!

Back azimuth.

i
Christopher ·.···..··..·...

Q

I

II

Red Bog ···········.···.·. \ 40 14 03.28

7:

0-~ 5~.rn ~ ~ 3~ IWest ......······....··..·. ( 4~ 5~ 3~ 180 1)3 52 GarrielL ···..···.·...·.·. - I 0 53 57
Throckmorton .····.·..···.. 1 4 35 45 Baird...................... 1 315 0-2 28 Throckmorton ·······..··· 3315314 Christopher ...·...··... , ··. , 250 47 18
Highland of Squam ..···· ····I 351 52 07 Christopher ...·...·..····.. i 301 24 43

MetTll#.
623'3.2 11979.2 20130.9 2597J.4 18644.8 11011.0 11050.0 1403-2.3 16076.0 5108.9

Yarth. 6821.9 13100.2
2"2014.5 2840L.5 20389.4 12041.3 12083.9 15345.3

Miles. 3.o'S 7.44

40 04 10.421 74 11 36.75 ! 184 35 01 135 10 47
I

12.51
16.14

Highland of Squl\ID. ········· Fleming .················. Stout .···········.·····... Green Island ··············

40 06 07.68174 04 17.70 40 00 12.971 74 03 11.79 39

1515713

11.59
6.84
6.86 8.72 9.99 3.17 3.77 2.60

70 62 01
171 52 49 121 30 08
139 25 33 197 11 0-2

s1

34.11

I

14 04 15.43

Christopher.···.·.·.·.···.. -1 Fleming...··... ············: Stout...................... Fleming · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · .

319 20 49 17 11 43

17580.2
5586.9

40 00 32.2"2

I 74 06 06.49
I
I
74 03 58.55

334 17 26 278 08 24
248 06 48 200 25 57

I

154 18 37 98 10 16

6075.1
4185.7 5530.6 2831.8 6745.6

6643.fi
4577.4

Page ············.·····.·.
Cranberry ·······.····.···.

39 59 06.181 74 06 48.18 39 56 37 .21

Fleming.·.·········· - ···· - · Green Island ·.·············

189 27 40 138 47 21
252 48 13 169 59 31

Fleming._ .···· _······.····· Page ·············.·· -·····]
Stout ······················

I

1

68 09 07 20 26 24
9 28 10 318 45 32
72 49 33

6048.1 3096.7 7376.8

3.44
1.76

4.19
3.79 1.93

6108.0
3104.4 3795.6

6679.5
3394.4

Goose Creek ····.········· Goodluck Point ·····.·····.
~um"2"2

39 57 04.97 ! 74 06 20.38

i
39 55 18.58 \ 74 06 47 .10
···················

Page ······..·····..... -··· 1 349 59 13
Goose Creek .·············.. Cranberry .·.····.·····..··. \

4150.8 3654.5
5116.8
7204.7
15671.4.

2.36
2.08 2.91
4.09 3.22

190 56 34
238 46 13

10 56 51
58 48 01

~ 15~ ~(}.37

\

74.

(}.<\.

~-00

3341.8 4679.0

Goose Cl:ee"k. .··············· \ '3i5 37 24 7 n 4.4. CL..mberry ---------- ···· ---·

lkited' &ates Coast BNrlley.-Ocographical .Positions.
Name of station. Latitude. Longitude. 74 07 52.94 74 05 08.73 74 09 08.41 74 05 55.43
o ' "

Section II.-Coast ef New Jersey.
To station-

Sketch B, J\0. S.

I

,----O
I

I
I
!

Azimuth.
o ' "

I
I

I
I
I
I

Back azimuth. / Dk'tance. [ Distance. Distance.

--51 43 37 131946 6 32 46 :m 58 0-2 21 55 23 95 2-2 24 10 54 17 323 54 38 66 07 51 10 40 03
o ' "

n

Cedar Creek--·-··-······-! 39 5144.44 bland Beach ····· - - .·····. i 39 49 0-2 .52

I
I
I

231 41 24 11931904 186 32 19 141 59 47 201 54 35. 275 19 50

I

.. I Philipp.................... IG~~uckPoint ·.

I'

---·····--·1

I

Metres. 6267.6 6786.8

Ya':ds. 6854.0 7421.9

Miles. 3.89 4.22

I
I
I

l
'

; Phihpp ...·..·····....·.... 1 Cedar Creek .···.··....· _··. i

8935.3 6338.2 4806.7 5724.6 5874.2 7797 .1 6898.6 9"257.1 7659.3 5854.4 7353.3 10495.9 6851.2 5894. 7 7123.2 6667 .2
67712.0 5568.2
I)

9771.4 6931.3 5256.5 6260.2 6423.9 8526.7 7544.1 10123.3 8376.0 6402.2 8041.4 11478.0 7492.3 6446.3 7789.7 7291.0 7405.7 6089.2 6505.0 5660.4

5.55 3.94 2.99 3.56 3.65 4.84 4.29 5.75 4.76 3.64 4.57 6.52 4.26 3.66 4.42 4.14 4.21 3.46 3.70 3.2'J

Forked River .............. j 39 49 19.83 :Barnegat Inletc·-··-· ·····. ! 39 45 55.47 Double Creek ·.···..·····. ! 39 44 24.8-1 Barnegat Light-house ..··...

I

! CedarCreek ...·..··..·. ····i Island Beach .·············

l

I

J 190 53 47 I 143 56 41

I Island Beach .·············· ' Forked River ...···..·.·..·.

·1

1
1

Great Swamp ·············· i 39 40 39.53

I
!
!
1

I

74 IO 20 391 246 04 28 74 06 "'2.-20 1190 39 17
v.

I Barnegat Inlet.............. 1

I Forked River .···....·.. ····!

39 45 57.21

144 40 56 119-23-241

I ForkedRiver ........·...... i 324 38 57 IIslandBeach ...··..··.·..·. 123315

74 08 39 32

i

160 53 50 \ 201 48 55

! Double Creek .···.....··... ! I Barnegat Inlet ..··..........

1

340 52 45 21 50 40 29 45 3.5 99 47 00 340 29 21 31 00 38 27 39 09 97 24 08

Hickory Island ············ Hickey ··················· Dinner Point ··.··.·······.

39 41 11.94

74 12 43.12 j 209 44 04 : 279 44 25
i

I Double Creek .·.·...·...... I
i ~ckory~sland ·····.···.·..· /
Great Swamp ...·....···.... / ll!ckorylsland -·-····--·---iI Hickey .·.... ··············;
I I

1

i Great Swamp .··········..·. !

39 37 34.20

74 11 03.36

I

i

160 30 25 210 59 06

39 37 57.40

74 14 54.94 I 207 37 45 · 1 277 21 40 150 40 32 74 12 52 . 76 1 1 1 210 15 53

I 39 35 09.24 Cramer ··· -- ·······.······ 1
I

D~1merPoint. ..···.·...·..· j 330 39 14 Hickey .·..·..····.·.·...·· 1 30 16 03

5948.4 5l76.1

I

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpltical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
0

Section II.-Ooast of New Jersey.
To station-

Sketch B, No. 3.
i
i

Longitude.

Azimuth.
0

Tuckerton ················

39· 36 06.69 39 33 15.89

' "

i
I

I

I

0

~ ~

Back azimuth. , Distance." Distance. j Distance.
I
0

0

74 19 27.59 74 14 21.23

'

II

242 16 25 280 36 55 211 07 42 125 47 52 198 24 29 280 25 56 141 14 20 218 39 29 218 48 12 254 50 19 144 27 54 79 05 03 20-2 55 26 124 02 20 167 28 56 233 2-2 09 214 52 10 295 18 58

'

II

ID. I mner p.. omt ······.········ I

I i &2 19' 13,, I Cramer .................... I 100 41 07
Cramer ···· _··.··.·....···. Tuckerton ..·····.····.·.·. Tuckerton .··.··..········· L-ong Beach ··..··...·.··...
31 08 38 305 44 37 18 25 02 100 29 44

Long Beach ··············.
Cedar Hammock .·········. Old Inlet ·················. Leed's Point ·············. Little Egg Harbor Light ·.·· Brigantine Beach ··· - - ·. _··· Peter's Beach ·············

I I
I

Metres.

7344.4 9584.7 4083.7 9010.1
3388.5 8685.2

Yards. 8031.6 10481.5 4465.8 9853.2 4252.3 9497.9
8577.3 6354.9

Miles.

4.56 5.96
2.54 5.60 2.41 5.40 4.87 3.61

39 34 07.051 74 20 19.06 39 30 48.76 39 28 58.63 39 30 18.41
39 25 48.98 39 23 16.50 39 25 08.55 74 16 53.31 74 25 39.6.1 74 16 48.02 74 19 37.01 74 24 01.60 74 29 06.57

1 Cedar Hammock .···.· ······ I 32112 09 38 41 06 Long Beach .···_ ··.······...

!

7843.4 5811.2 12209.0 130-24.6 8666.0 12937.1 10038.3 10456.7 10807.4 788-2.l 8649.4 8072.4

rn
0 ~

t:;

Cedar Hammock ······.···.. Old Inlet ..····.·····.··.··. Cedar Hammock .····.··.··. Leed's Poiut .·.·.·····.·· - ··. Old Inlet. .··.·····.·······. I Leed's Point ..·.············ Leed's Point .·...··········. Brigantine Beach ······.·... ·.·.············ ILeed'sPoint Peter's Beach ···.·...····.·
!

38 51 36 74 55 54 324 25 40 258 59 25 2'2 57 10 303 58 29 347 27 54 53 24 57 34 54 2-2 115 22 12

13351.4 14243.3 9476.9 14147.6 10977.6 1143.5.2 11818.7 \ 8619.6 9458.7 8827.7

7.58 8.09
5.38 8.04
{i-23 6.50

~

Ah11eeum ··················

l

i

6.72 4.90 5.37 5.0-2

Name of station.

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.
o· '

To station-

0

,

Fao:11
t.:> ,....
K
ENT

KE'.<T IsLASD NoRTHWARD.

BASE

"

0

I

..

!
I

I Back azimuth.
0

I

/ Distance.

Distance. ( Distance.

"

I SLAND B ASE ~ N. S.End. End.

311 53 50.51 &! 58 23.17 33 52 24.15 38
bl}

76 21 39.35 .. .... ....... 7ti 20 08-46 14 36 o2.5 76 36 16.41
16 21

- ------

i ............ ------ ---- ----·· -----·!·--· ........ ·----South Base ················· ! 194 35 05.4

I I
!

,

"

I
I

Metres.

l'ards.

llliles.

.................... . .................. .. .... --.. --g&g/_6 9500.5 5.40 21303.3 25S08.8 13916.6 .1 18471.5 23296.6 282'23.7 15218.8 12124.5 20199.9 19599.5 11403.6 2&"28.9 2116'1.9 20464.2 31746.6 17517.5 38831'.'l 28725.8 218.g"j' .3 23941.1 31141.2 25641.9 13.24 16.04

lfarriott -.··.·...··.······
Taylor .···············.··.

262 44 36.9 Ul 30 5!U 3:-21 43 49.2 28"J 06 57 .l 42 39 41.6 315 32 33.5 3;)() 19 04.6 24 16 12.4 15 48 r.6.3 71 57 04.5 41 27 23.9 5 05 09.4

South BMe .·····......· ----1 North BllS<l .·.·.·..··..··.·. i

4;).0J

37·.ns

South Base ..·.....· -··· ----1 141 47 34.1 Nonh Base ..·.·.·.......... I 103 11 39.3 Marriott ....·..·.·..·.· ···· 22"2 34 15.2

I

8'2 53 47 .5 64 41 G7.3

I
I

I uo;;;

8.65 6.89 11.48
11.13 6.48 16 27 12.02 11.63 18.03 9.95 22.06;

rn
tj

Linstid ..····.

........... ·-----

39 OS

18.~

76 28 4!L96

i I;I~%iti ~::: ::::~ ~: ::: ::: ::i
North Base ··· --- ·· - · - - - - -- North Base .·····..·······.. Linstid ···.·....··....· ---Linstid ..····.·..· - ··.·· - - Swan Point ..··.·.·..··..... Linstid ------ ...·..·...···. Poore Islanil ------ ----· ----

13.5 33 06.9 170 19 50.6 204 11 31.5 195 45 48.4 251 49 17.4 2-21 18 58.7

179-2-2.5 10427.9 26179.3
193.'",0.3

r
~

0

Snn Puint .·····.········.

39 08 27.07 39 17 04.52

76 16 29.54 76 15 30.40 76 31 O!L65 76 16 33.85 76 00 15.68

18713.2 290-21.1 . 16!!18.6 35507.5 26267.9 20014.5 21892.6

Pool's Island ········

··----1

185 04

~.o

Fil:!lay ···················. · 39 24 24.70 Olioome's Ruin .·..···.····
39 Z1 51.70

354 34 31.6 3"Jl 0'2 C.'9.0

174 36 00.0 121 12 04.5 175 39 16.2 252 58 34.6

16.32
12.44 13.6'.l 17.70 14.57

355 38 :':5.9 ! Poors Island ..·· ----- ·····. · 73 07 50·9 Finlay .·· - . _....···..··· - .. 50 19 51.1 94 21 40.1

Turkey Point. ·· - ······ ···· j 39 26 55.02

Pool's Island .·······.···.·· Osborne's Ruin ·············

Z14 11 18.5

230 10 10.9

l

-

· .-~

· _ 0·1

28476.6 23447.9

-~ .....

//j{g/

United States Coast Suri-ey.-Gcograihical Positicns.
___ N_a_m_e_o_r_s_ta-ti-on_._____ L_a_ti-tu_d_e_._,_Lo_n_gi_·tu_d_e·_I
0
~

Section IIL-Priman; Stations.

Sketch C.
Distance. Distance.

Azimuth_ _ _ _ _ T_o_s_ta_t_io_n__ _ _ _ ,/__ n_a_ek_a_zi_m_u_th_. Distance.

,,

Principio _. - _. - .···· _.· __ ·

39 35 33.47

o , ,, 1 75 59 57 .25 J

o , 59 11 41.5 / Osbome·s ~uiu ·.··········. 1 34 44 .1 I Turkey Pomt ·.· _. ___ ·..· __ ·

>I

0

,

,,

I
FRoM CHESAPEAKE B.n cTo \VASlII:SGTO:S.

239 01 07.2 181 34 32.3

Jfctrcs. 27733.4 15993.3

Y<lrdS. 30328-4 \ 17489.. 8

I

Jfiles. 17.23

9.94

/I
39 05 23.23 I 76 40 11.42
1

Webb ·-·--- ..............
Hill-··--· ...... ---· ..... .

346 43 51.8 Marriott·-·--···----··-·--· 270 27 45.2 j Linstid ·-·--- ·----· ··-- ·--· 276 27 33.5 i )faniott ··---· ···---· ·-·--· 219 46 58.61 Webb·----···--·-·-------· 3-13 50 36.5 I Hill ..·..· ····--·---·-··--308 31 0-2.5 ) l\Iarriott ---·-· --·-- -·-- ---·

166 46 19.7 90 34 54.9
96 37 42_5

24678.9

16375.9
23644_0 27779.4 23811.0 21730.9 37758.5 17006.0 20730.7 203-27 .2 1188.1.7 ·14851.0 \ 3958.6 11219.5 t>..'<82.0
10388.0 ';.\,1;5.0

26988.1 179;)8.2 25856.3
3!J37tl. 7

15.33 10.18 14.69 17.26 14.79 13.50 23-46

~

38 53 51.5-l

76 52 31.15 76 56 42.11

. t:;

39 5-l 43.9 88 59 50.3
163 53 14.3 12il 43 53.5 100 33 01.9 3ll 59 23.4

Soper. --- ...··.. _-....···.

39 05 08.55

2&3 49 25.7

1

Webb---······-···-··.....

~................. ····I ""'

26039.0 2:l76.L2 41291.6 18597.3 :e267o.5 22-:2-29.2

r
~

0

31.00

77 04 05.29 · 230 25 45.9 [Hill .............······.... 210 54 44.41 Soper.·--·····--·---------·

Saminary .··········· ····-· 1 38 49 10.24 National Observatory ·.····. 1 38 53 38.96

77 05 13.71

i
i

1

I
I

10.57 12.88

2+1 40 32.2, Hill.......................
187 58 15.8
l~~ 40 0-2
26-l

64 48 3!L7
7 5il 58.7

i Causten ···· ··-·-· ·--· -----·
Hill....................... 1
\

i 12996.8
i

I

p
,.,_

77 02 47.291 248 26 57

Ca.pitul Dome ..·····.

···-·-\38

I

53

\ 58 o9 19~89 n-,"'oo"-"'15.oo "' ."'" \\l:~ l~5~"
'Z<>.I'>\)
" ..., ""'·""'

I Causteu ··········.········. \3313913
mn -····· ........... ·-·-··
t\\\\ ·--- ----·· ·--- ----- ----

88 33 24
85

16240.6 I 43'29.0 \ 12269.3 I 7526.0 \
11360.0 \ 81()'3.ll

9.23 2.46 6-97 4.28 6.45 4.64

o~

01 \\

.\C:msten.... . . . · . . . · . . . · · . · .
~"''''"'"'~----·- · - · - · · - - - - - - · ·

3ll6 fo 28
&> ?.7 11'>

~\\.\A)U ···· · · · · · · · · ···· ····

~'a.\

-

"""' '"" ..u \.'.!.\. '2l;) \)\.

'm'- 'i!A'> \.'a
-

o-(.

.

Ramo 0£ s'..ation.

(

Latitude.

(

Longitude.

Azimuth.
0

---~-------;·-----1------1,----FRoll !U;sT lsL\:<D B.HE i o ' "

i

I

I

To station-

I , / Back azimuth. / Distance.
I
0
I
I

Distance. / Distmce.

·--a, c1> - - __ - - · · · · P opl ar I Slllll
Blake .····.· ··-·---··-··--

SOIJTUWARD_

I 76 22 53_29 I 186 31 46.6 South Base·-----··----·---38 4!'; 25-_65 rn3 44 u8_3 · )larriott - _· - ____ - - . - - - - - · - I I 16.3 : Marriott. ___ ---------·----38 39 41.881 76 31 55_79 . 165
~
1
I,

i

o

1 " \

, ,,

--.Metres.
15668-1 23:.n-7.l 24330.5 16855_6 Yards. 17114_2 25455_1 266G7.l 184:{2.8 23955_} 23007.8 3C627_6 12130.4 28360_2 2fl245-2 11936.3 1463-"U 11095.5 Jl:943_J 10989_2 7712_] 1?3(;9_2 17838.9 173'.W.l
.!tlilu.

"

6 32 33_7 303 35 44-8 344 59 33.1 51 04 56-2 343 3.3 55_7 298 15 33_3 319 51 20_5 6 4;3 33_3

. 9:74 14.46 15.02 10.47 13-61 13_64 17.40 6-89 16.12 11-50 6.78 8.31 6.30 6.2'2 6-24 4.38 7.57 10.14
10.13
~

()2

:.!30 59 16.9

i Poplar

Island, (1)- ·. - - · ::-. - - -

Hill's Point ···· - .········ - -

33 3-l 04_141

76 18 37.26

JG:~ 3G 35_7 i Poplar Island: _____ --------118 23 5L6 Blake .·.. _.---··-··---·---·

i

21905.4 21944_5 2'3007-0 1109"2-5 25933-6 18512-9 1G915-0 l:l38LO 10146.l
l(l()(){j_8

rn
c .
0
()

Travers. - _- - .· - - · - __ . - _- - -

38 28 06_84 \ 76 19 30.85 38 25 liL29

l:m

186 42 5!L9

59 04_9 . Bl:ike. _- - - - - - - . - - · - - - - - - - - . Hill's Point- ... - _- . - - - · - - · - .

:
I

Wilson--··--···········:··
C11ltert - -· - ___ · _. __ ·.· __ - .

I

76 26 39.38

;:.g 21 30.63 i 76 23 16.16

I
i

162 50 44_0 , Blake. ___ -----·--·----- ____ 1 342 47 26_8 ::.'V 09 39.4' 219 04 39.4 Hill's Point ·. ---- .·. - . _. ___ . 72 10 56.1 252 06 29_6 TraYers . - - _- .. - - - - . - - . - - - - 204 1)5 13_0 150 56 27_7 15.'> 52 16.6 72 10 11-7
161 14 57_3 216 46 17.9

~

TraYers _____ .. _. - _- - . _.. __ . "'ilson -·---· -··- ·--- ·--··TraYers . - - _- . __ . - . - - - - - _· - _ CalYert ·----- ··---- --·- ---Calvert·----------·-------)Ieekin's Neck._. --- ·--- _... )!epkin'5 Xeck ... ___ . -- .. __ . Cedar Point ......... - ·. --· _

24 07 33.0. 330 54 21-5 33-'> 50 31.7

i

Meekin'sNeck---··--··---·
C"dar Puiut. ··· --·-----··
Tom·~

!

38 2310.66 28 17 G4.0'J

i

J

7616 42.09 76 21 42.77 76 10 f>4.48

'

252 06 07.1
341 13 59.4 36 49 24.4

10048-9

l

!
I

7052.2 12188_7 16312-5 rn:t14_5

Poiut .... ···---·

33 15 37.9!

51 -12_6 J0.1 CB 2'.l.4
J4i~

323 48 Gi.l 2S4 51 47.8

f..;;.I

~

U11ite.d States Coast Suri:ey.-Gcograpkiral Positions.
Name .:Jf station. Latituile.
0 , ,,

Sectim1 !IL-Primary Statio'lls.
To station-

Sl.-ett·l1 C'.
1 Distwee. Distance.
};a·:ds.

I Longitude.
0 ,
JI

I I _____ ,________._________I____ --"'-'---·---·Azimuth.
0 , ,,

Baek 11zimuth. Distance.

0

'

''

Point No Point. .····.··· -- . HollMd .··· _.···. ____ .·.·. Puiut Lookout ·.··.. ···---· Smith's Point Light-House ..

3S 08 27.45

76 19 04.11 76 05 14.88
7t>

167 33 27.2 221 52 00.l
153 42 03.4

Cetlar Po-int·----· ·····.···· Tom's Point .··.·.·...··.·..
Tom's Pdut ...·..··.·..··.. Point No Point ............ .

347 31 49.0 l 17890.8 41 r,7 02.9 i ]')'83.'l.7 3.13 38 33.4 : 18631 .s 279 33 36.6 ' 00483.2
i !

I

llfftrcs.

Milu

19564.9 19".>W.4 20375.2 22399.8
23456.4
1,

11.19 11.08
I

3S

()6

36.29

99 42 Oti.5
3.s 0-2 44.7fi

rn

I
1

11.58 12.73
6.{»6

04.90
JO

180 C6 13.2
2W 29 2-Ll 165 JO 55.4 21!7 16 40.0 156 57 57.1

Point No Point. ····.·····.. HollamL ·.......··.....·· - . Point No Point. ····. ···---· Holland .·......··..·.·.·.. Point Lookout ·.· - . . . ·.. - ..

0 06 13.7 70 37 56.0 345 (i7 47 .0 27 2-i fi2.2 336 54 48.4
3-i7 49 26.5

J(!i)fiii.4 21449.4

JJr>.54.0 ,.

13.3.'l 18.W 17.28
11-~

37 5.'l J.i .:.9

76 13 58.fl&

29114.3 27819.o
19Hl3.6

Sh:wk's Hammoek ·.···· _.·

37 55 15.59

76 ()2 09.48

167 51 20.6 119 17 13.0 77 54 10. 0 114 13 35.5 160 52 42.1
23'.l 4:> 04.6

Holland ·····. Point Lookout ....·........ 2.<l<.) 06 48.1 Smith's Point Light House .. -1 257 46 54.5 Smith's Point Li!!ht-House. .. 294 04 22.0 Sl11mk'sHammock .·.·...·.. , 3-10 50 43.5 6 14 05.4

----····--···!

21467.4 23383.7 17711.2

I

I 20891.1 t
::!:142";? .0

31838.51
!

23476. l
3Jf'39.5
19~.4

13.34 17.64

11.r.o
8.96

Tangier Island .··· - ····· _·. Windmill Point. ······ _···. Sandy Point ·············.·
Wo\fTn.p ·-·--· ------ ----

37 47 53.82 37 36 41 8'2 . . I
37 .'l3 38.4'>'

75 f,8 56.11 76 16 14.6.'l

24171.1 14415.7 30786.3 32804.5

26432.8 15764.61 33667 .0 35874.0

15.09
19.J:l

i

i

7fi 56 17 -~2
76 14 2<\.3-:!
'iG 00

100 59 55.1
3i 24 00.73 \

I Tangier Maud ·····.···..·.. ! 50 55 39.8 171 39 05.4 \·rangier I~laud ..··..·.·.··.. 1 3."il 37 28.7 1
Windmill Point. ··.·..·····. 280 47 45.2 173 25
23Ull~.O~.o1rnuyl'om.t ·····..···..··..
1.\1';\ ~ 00.<;\
'\.\.<;\ '\.<;\ '\.4..\)

1~ 1~ 41.9 j Rmit~'s Point Light-House ··. I

! i
!

20.37
16.f>G

"'B.<>1!.<1-.wi.~

-·--------------

~ \.~

M.'t'f.>.\

~-'i!.l.

~1.8

. "'intlmill_l'oiut .. -- ·.... - ·..

1

'\353

26651.1 1 29144.S 296'96.2 1 32693.5 \
1

18.58
14.67 19.91
1&.'b\
1~.m

562"~~-1\ 32085.4
~ '\.\\ 4.'l .1.

24 14.6 I 93617 .G \25827 .5 \

~87.6\
28575.S. \
~\I.&

..,,l\D.il.')'1'<>'\.u\; ·----- ---- ······

'l.'1<>'1'\".n>~ ---- ------ -··---·

1.1'. 4.1. ~-'i \ ~&1?.0.4

'L'\.~A

/

I

Name of station.

(

Latitude.

Longitude.
0 ' ,,

Azimuth.
Q

r

I

I

!

To station-

/_Back azimuth. / Distance.

Distllllce. jDistance.

,~~~~~-1-~~~~-1~~~~~

0

,

"

f

II

0

'

"

Yards.

Mil.ea.

HEAD OF CHESAPEAKE BAY.
Maulden's Mountain........ 39 29 11.98

75 59 07.84
76 20 36.74 76 10 51.86 76 20 52.56 76 14 14.83

174 16 38
84 :l6 IO

Principio ......·..···..·...· Osborne's Ruin ....····.....· Principio. ...·..· .. . .· . · · . . · Mauldeu's Mountain.........

3.)4

16 06

118-i-:l.5

129'28.9

7.35
15.6:J
21.34

264 15 05
59 ~ 05 79 43 35

2-5120.0 34346.3

27470.5
37560.1 34254.2 20980.9

Prospect Hill.. ········.·.. I 39 26 08.83
Worton Point............. Miller's Island............. 39 19 03.32 39 15 41.74 39 13 O<L 17 390827.07 39 12 25.25 39 04 36.40

239 2-5 53 259 29 58

31323.3
19185.7

UJ.46
11.9-:l

!

133 11 54 2"Jl 50 3-1 181 07 09 2-16 35 29

Prospect Hill.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313 o;; 45 Mauldeu's Mountain ....·...· ; 41 58 04 Prospect Hill. . . . . . . . . . . . ..· i Wonou Point ..···..····.... 1
i

25217.7
19340.2

27577.3
21149.9 17146.0 11674.5 13166.3 16200.0 10053.1 ' 9394.0 15763.2 15714.7

15.67 12.02 9.74 6.63

1 07 17 66 41 49

156713.9
10675.6 12iJ39.7 14814.0 9192.9
8590.2

Mitchell's Blutr............
Sw.u<Ponn ...···....····..

116 44 07 2!J:l 49 03
1544833 200 34 49 2"25 07 36 300 :Yl 30 240 17 16 180 15 46

Miller's Island........ . · . . . . 296 39 55 · Worton Point... . · · · · . . . · . . . · 23 51 11 .:\liller's Island ...·.....·.... : 3:H 45 47
.:\Iicehell's Bluff . . · . · · . . · · . . . 20 36 14

'7.48

761629.54
76 25 06.51 76 25 09.28

i

9.20 5.71

Black Marsh ·· ·· · · · . . · ·· · · Gibson's Island ··· ··· · ·· · · . Northeast Rir:er.

Miller's

Mand..............

Swan Point....... . · · · . · · · · · Swan Point. . . · · · · . · · · · . . . . · Black :llarsh . . . · . · . . · . · · · · ·

45 IO 17 120 39 57 60 22 46 0 15 45

5.34
8.96

14419.0 14370.1

14456.9

15809.6

8.93 8.9d

Locust Point · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

39 28 21.53

76 03 56.25

257 15 17
203 10 23

Maul<len's Mountain ...····.· Priudpio .···········.······

77 18 20 23 12 52

706:l.O 1-1490.0

7726.l 15845.8

4.39

9.00

United States Coast Suri:ey.-Geograpltical Positi011s.
Name of station. \ Latitude. Longitude. Azimuth.

Section llI.-Head of Cliesa1Jcake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.
Distance. Distance.

I
j
J

I

Baek azimuth.

I Distance.
·Metres.
/I

I

Carpenter's Point. ·.·.····. \ 39 3'2 28.79 Bull's ~Iounrniu... ··· . . · ·. . Ranee's Point ..··.·....... 39 30 23.04 39 33 20.63

I

0·"

O·"
76 00 20.17 75 ~ 30.95

IO'"
1

I
1

34 06 54 344 06 10
G4 17 28 146 04 57
~ ~ ~~

I

Locust Point ......··.·.·.·. ~fauldeu' s ~fountain ..·....·.

21~ o~ 3;
IG4 06 56 244 14 0-2 3:26 03 46 193 3-2 55 245 53 42 216 08 13

9'.206.7 6.109.7
8('>!r, .8 4673.l
7&.,~_5

Yards . 10068.2 6900.1

.Miles. 5.72 3.9'2 5.36

i Locust Point .......··..··.. [ Carpenter's Point .....·.··..
!

9435. l 5110.4
8624.5 4282.0 3.105.2 216-!.8 2760.4 6797.3 3291.3 12879.61

2.90
4.90
2.43 I.SS 6.82 1.57 3.86

1
1 i

75 57 50.431 75 59 05.49 j
75 56 50.041

: Maulden's Mountain......... [ Carpcnter"s Point...........

3915.6
30-2-2.4

Seneca Point.. ····..······ · 1 1 39 33 47 .95

I
Ford's Farm ············.. ! 39 34 27.81

i
1
'!·

36 09 01 295 lo 45
:

i Rance's Point....···....··.. I 115 11 33 ~~ !~ l Ranee's Point....··... ······ I 214 50 03 i Carpenter's Point........... 233 47 28
8

i . ,, i carpenrer

p omt. . ....·.··..

1979.6

2524.2
6'215. 7 3009.7 11777.6
4018.8 1954.2

Red Bank ..··········.··.. ! 39 31 3il.61 , 75 58 a-2.os / 120 56 55 1 61 00 51
Sweet's Landing
. . ., . . . .

i Carpenter's Point...........
j Highlands of Narrows........

I

300 55 48 240 56 16

1.87 7.3'2
2.50 1.21

d~ ~;~.·

I
···

39 35 28.10

75 57 15.32

!
1
1

12 0-2 3.1

I ,., '" "
262 46 06

I Ford's Farm .·..·.····.···. · 1
I

) , Hance ' s Pomt....... · · . . . · . .

..

19-2 02 13 162 00 58

43..C\4.9 2137 .1

I

Highlands of Narrows ·····.

I 39 28 33.30

1

JI

76 05 43.15

I ~fmtlden's :Mountain..... · . . ·
\ Prindpio................. ...

\ · · · . 212 29 08 1 Furnace ················.. \ 39 35 24.37 \ 7., u9 51.98 \348 14 01 \ \ 70508

S-2 50 17 32 3-2 48
168 14 187 04 ;,O
\B '23 ~ 9-2 '31:> '<>7

9521.6 15365.3 10867·1 5456.1 \
9144.0 111'.!.1.9

10412.5 16803.0 \ 11883.9 5966.6
0099.6 \ 1'211.l'.l.6

5.9-2 9.55 6.75
3.~

l\Bu1l' s ~Io~ntai~- .........·.. \ Caweuter·s Pumt...........
CaT\lenter's 1'o'int.... . . . . . . . 'B\ill.:% M.<>"1>.tll.\D..... ·· · · · · · · ·

~3

"D~~· '?u\ut ..········. ····\ ~ ~ ~ . .\:.\ 7\l W 1l\.~

'M~ 1~

~~\)\.

.\7

5.1.)8 6.91

l7ni/cd &a.t'M Coad Surcey.-Geographrrd .Positim1B.
Kame of station. Latitude.
0 '
II

Section III.-&ad q/ Chesopeake Bay.

1lkctch 0.
I ;

Longitude.
() I ti

Azimuth.
C

To station-

I Back azimuth. / Distance. !
1
0 ' "

I

I

-----------·

! Distance. : Distance. I '----

ShadBattery .···..··.····. Susquehanna Light......... Lower Stomp P-0int .... ··.. Stump Point. ···..... : .·.·. Harre-de-Grace............ Havre-de-GraceSpire.......

39 29 36.53 39 32 23.28 39 32 44.56 39 32 58.54

76 04 41.3! 76 04 47.l:J 76 02 30.44 76 03 49.94

260 45 49

130 37 39
3J6 0121 231 34 1"2 307 19 32 323 3-2 45
30-2 09 42

Bull's )fountain ..··.··.··... 80 49 45 Da>is' Poiut ....·...···..... 1 310 36 39 }faulden's Mountain .···..... \ 126 04 57 1''urno.ce ..·..·.....····.... : 51 37 40
Bull's )fountain ........·.... ! 127 2-2 01 Maulden' s }fountain ......... : 143 34 59
r

Metres. : 8963.6 I 2981.5 f

Yards. / 980-2.3 I 3-260.5

i

.Miles. 5.57
I.8.5

100-23.6 8088.2 719-t.3 · -8147 .8 ! 9001.2 : 8614.9 ; 6942.2 6636.0 ' 11009.5 9044.3

10961.6 98-29.2

18 18 25
::9 32 15.63 '. 76 04 57.57
39 3-2 49.23 39 33 39.57 39 35 19.40
j

Bull's )fountain .·.··.·.·.... · 12"2 13 09 Highlands of Karrows....... 198 17 17 Highlands of Xarrows . . . . · . . Carpenter's Point . . · · . · · . . . . )fanlilen's }fountain......... Furnace.·----------------189 01 12 86 31 06 127 31) 53 58 06 17

8910.2 i ! 9843.4 9421.0 7591.8 7256.9 12039.7 9890.6

I I 78o'"'7.5 l

I

6.23 5.59 4.47 5.06
5.59 5.35

9 01 41 266 23 C9
307 27 00 235 02 52
2')1 38

I

4.31 4.12 6.84 5.62 8.94 6.94
7.~

76 05 13.63 76 07 21.80 76 04 20.80

~

J.Iounl

Zion .·····.····... :

3'J4 55 46 37
8 55 53 317 32 43

)f~ul~e~'s ::\fountain ...··.... ; 125 01 00 Pnncw10 ..·........ ________ · 71 43 20
H~hlandsofNarrows ...··.. Bull's Mountain.............

14396.6 '. 15743.7 11175.0 i 12"2"2lJ. 7 12676.2 12331.2 - 3585.l 12'J36.4
!J3.58.G 10861.2

Ryan'sHill ..····...··.··.· Gro¥er'sHill ..·...·..·.·.. . Watson's Island ···. :···.... Boyce's Hill ..·.·.._........

188 55 01 137 36 26 37 23 09 120 25 41 13 00 50 12-2 48 51

13362.3 13539.7 40-29.9 13709.4 3672.9 11877 .5 987.3 419'2.8

7.69 2.29 7.79

39 33 44.46 · 76 05 54.54 39 33 33.30 39 35 37.61 76 04 52.48 76 04 50.43

217 22 15 300 20 53 193 00 32 3:1'2 44 45 308 Z'l 0-2 0 43 52

Ryan's Hill. ............ ---Bull's Mountain..... . . . . . . . .
Ryan's Hill................. Bull's 3Iountain.............

!
1'

2.09 6.74
0.56 2.38

Ryan's Rill................. Watson's L;land. · · · · · · · · · · · ·

128 Z'l 21 lt!:l 43 51

90-2.8 3334.0

United States Coast Sun·ey.-Gcographical Positions.
Name of station. B.Jyd ·····.···.···..··· - .. Wells' Hill .·········..···. Lower Islaud .···.·.··..··. Paradise.................. Pacn's House, (south chimney;) Mulberry Point..···.····... Turkey Point, (2) ·.········· Turkey Point Light..·..··.. Collar Neek ..·.··.·.··.··. Wroth's Puiut ..·.··.···..·. l'ell;roo ···················. Latitude.
0 , "

Section IIl.-Hcod
'fo station-

ef Chesapeake Bay.
Back azimuth.
0 , ,,,

Sketcli 0. I
l

Longitude.
0 "

Azimuth.
0
I ·I

I

Distance. Distance. j Distance.
Metres. 5tklJ.8 3G-1G.l

;~~~~~~~~.

39 35 2!.l.8i : 76 07 22.92 39 36 40 60; 76 06 57.18
i

!

315 01 32 26:3 14 04
302 42 26 15 43 27 2':25 57 o-i 355 30 52

"'atson's Island .·......·... Boyce's Hill ....·..·.....·.. Boyce's Hill .·.·.·.··..··.·. Boyd ........···.··...·..... Wells' Hill ...·.....·.····..
BoyJ ..·....·······.·····.·.
~Iaulden's

135 03 08 86 15 41

Yards. 5556.2 3937 .3 2477.8 1110.l 1618.4 14485.l 15906.5
39:1fl.l

Miles. 3.16 2.:..'7

12-2 43 47 1\15 43 11

3393.8 2265.8

I

2.23 1.41

39 36 17.71 39 30 50.01

76 07 27.77 76 08 07.66

45 57 21 175 3J 56
103 14 23 54 29 00
163 15 37 110 26 17

1015.1 1479.9 13-245. 7 14545.4

0.63
0.9-J

283 08 40
234 23 44

:'.\Iountniu. ·. . . . .. . Furnace · . . . . · . . · . . . . . . . · . .

8.23 9.04

rn

I

39 32 56.94 I 76 07 2:).58

313 14 32
2'JO 20 37

I
39 26 39.48 · 76 05 51.45 39 26 55.06 76 00 16.49

Highlands of K arrows . · . · . . . Bull's :'.\fouutain............. Turkey Point, (2) . . . . · . . . . . . Mount Zion. . . . · · · · · · · . . · · · . !\fount Zion . · · · · . . · . · . . . · . . P1indpio... ... .· ···.· .. · ·.. Locust Point . . · · · · . . . . . · . . . Cullar Neek . · · · · · · · · . · · · · . . Locust Point . . . . . . . · . . · . . . . Turkey Point, (2) ...........
1

9284.5 849J.l 13i3:.ll.l ; 14895.6
I

5.28
8.46 4.99 8.16

266 3-2 OS 170 33 :lO 140 52 33 181 3S 41
116 IO 52 214 0-2 :u

86 35 46 350 32 28 3-20 48 03 1 3S 51 296 OS 30 3-1 03 09 274 56 18 215 26 44

8025.2 i 8776.l 13133.1,/ 1436:.U 16088.1 1599-l.6

I
i

i
i
i

17593.5 / 174tl9.o 6522.5 ,. 2699.2

I

10.00 9.94

39 26 56.27 i 76 00 12.26

I
39 28 0-2.57 ' 75 59 14.47
1

5964.4 I 2468.21
6759.4 I

3.7l
1.53

I

9.t 59 17 3-:> 21 23

39 25 47 .62

75 59 29.99

~ ~ ~.\-"'3 \

I

I

2550 .8 !i

126 44 20 \1s;, 05 42

Locust Point ....··......·.. \. Cullar Neck . . . . . . . . . · . . . . · .
'\"Vl'.ot\\' 11 l'omt.····.····.···. \
~u\\µ ll~e'o..

3~l6

41 31 5 05 52
';,\)

\

7940.0 \ 4178.6 \
2603.4\
~'.ll>.'<>

~~:~\'
8682.9
45(}9.6 284.1 .0 \
~·P

4.2-2 1.59
4.93 2.6:.l
l.~

1a a1 al.79

\

\.~ '<>1 '<>~

I;\ 'l1 2i'>

2.U '26 '26
~I> ~

... , .. ,. ;,: .. . · · . .

%-~

Name of 61:ation.

(

Latitude.
0 '

f

Longitude.
0 '

{

.Azimuth.
0
I "

(

To station-

( Back azimuth. / Di.stADce. ( Distance. {Distance.
0

~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~-:

·-~~~~~-~~~~~~~~

Arnold's Bar ·.··.. -·-----·

39 27 42.67

75 57 40.32

36 28 2-2 105 15 45

'Yroth's Point ···..··.·.....

I

II

MetrnJ.

Collar Neck .····...·..·.·..

216 27 12 285 14 45

! 4411.9 ; 233:!.3

Yards. 4i3;!4.7 2550.5

M'du. 2.74 1.45

Elk Rirer.
:Martin's High Bank........

39 29 57.79 39 28 16.06 39 28 03.21 392942.12 39 30 42.01 39 31 )l.98 39 30 56.99 39 28 24.83

75 55 49.52 75 56 28.64 75 54 06.46 755432.71 75 56 52.89 72 51 50.37 75 53 47.23 75 56 01.98

73 2-1 55 34 21 19
114 23 43

Maulden's Mountain......... Wroth's Point.............. Manlden's )fountain._... · · · . Martin's High Bank......... Manlden's )fountain..... . . . . Martin's High Bank ......· _. l\Iartin's High Bank . . . . · . · . . Maulden's .Mountain......... Town Point...... ...... ..·. Arnold's Bar. .............. Town Point................ :\Iaulden'1 .Mountain . . . · . · . . Town Point...... ·····. .·.. Hart's Hill . . . . . . . .. · . · .. . . Town Point................ Hart'c Hill............ .... Hart's Hill................. Ford .·.··.······.····· ----

253 2-2 51 214 18 57 294 2"2 0-2 16 35 58

4944.6 9343.0 4176.9 3'273.3 7508.2 4306.5 1897.6 6633.6
33'>-3.8

5407 .3 10-217 .2 4567.7 3579.6
8-211. l 47U9.9

3.07 5.81

Ford's Landing ·····.·····. Stony Battery· ...···· -----TownPoint .· ------------· Hart's

190 35 33
106 25 5-1 145 07 53 104 45 36 81 58 41 298 52 IO 11 31 38 54 27 55 70 3;t 23 25 13 11 84 04 34 221 49 36 163 5B 2-2
135 33 40 51 44 49

2.60 2.03
4.67 2.6a

fl.l

286 2"2 47 3'25 06 41 234 44 52 261 55 41
118 53 49 191 3416

2075.2
7:!59.8
617~.3

I.JS 4.13
I

r
~

0

t:::I

Hill................

4181.9

5614.0 4766.3 11086.6 2551.6 4458.5 3198.5 4401.4 4097.2 2101.3

2.38 3.51 2.96 6.89 1.59 2.77 1.99 2.74
2.55 1.31

Faimew ···· ·----- ·-----. Pearce ··..·· ---------···· Ford ..····.······ ------··
Bol1emia Ricer. Folk ·········. - - - - .· - · - - .

234 25 15 250 27 42 205 12 42 264 0-2 36 41503.'l 343 57 50 315 37 24 231 44 05

5212.31
121~.2

2790.5 48i5.7

3497.8
4:313.2

39 29 07 .03

75 54 52.95

4480.6 2-297.9

Uuitcd States Coast Suri·cy.-Gcograpltical Positions.
Nrune of station.

Section IIL-Head
T o statlim·

ef Cltesapeakc Bay. Skctclt C.
1 1 · · Inack- aznuuth. · 1D·1stauce. ; Distance. ID. \ rntanre.
'

Latitmle.
o ' " 39 28 4:!.03 39 28 0-2.29
39 2i 56.13

· d e. Longttu
o ' " 75 52 49.98

j

~mmth .

·-·

Stony Point - · - - - . - - - - - - - - Pennington.-------------Bayard------------------McLane ------ ---- ---- --- -

----------------'------/ o ' " I I 83 25 54 Ford . - --- - __ --- _ --- - . - --- . 263 23 52 I
0 ' "

:
!

204 41 59

Folk. - - - - - _. ___ ·.· - · - - __ - .

104 43 17

i
1

1

,Udrcs. 4tiliU 3:)3.:3. 0

Y11rds. \ 5051-3 i 33'2:' 3 i
~-

Milu1.

··~

2.tl7

1.89
0.76

75 52 53.93 75 51 40.99

184 24 30 125 04 57 130 39 28 96 14 08

StonyPoiut. ... -----------· Folk ..···. ·--- ------ ·----Stony Point .. _____ . ---- ___ . Pennington ____ . ___ . _ . _.... Stony Point. ___ ---- ___ . ___ .
Thi}ard ______

4 24 32 305 03 41 310 35 44 276 13 2'2 328 11 26 358 54 21

1

12'28.9 3475.0 2173.0 1753.6

1344.0 2316.3
rn11.1

I
I I
I

38Jil.2 I

2.16
1.35

1.09
1.97 0.80

39 27 14.53

75 51 39.96 I 148 12 11 178 54 2'2

--------------j

3175.0
1~2.9

3472.2 1403.1

i
I

Chesapeake Bay.

Bear Point __ ·· - · - - - - -- - - - Carroll's Island - - - - - - - - - - - Cool Spring---------------

39 26 50.62

76 03 2-t.51 76 18 56.0-2 76 0-2 00.76 76 04 31.75

234 34 53 197 44 52

)faulden' s Mountain - - - - - __ . Furnace . - - - - - - - -- - - - - · - - - · 1 Miller's Isla_nd . _. ___________ Prospect Hill.·--- --- -- - --·.
11

54 37 36
17 47 07

16tl34A

7525.61
7557.9

B-2-W.9 ! 18190.4 f
63G-L8

I

4.6.3 10.34

39 18 44.07 39 23 52.04 39 26 06.25

26 25 27 170 0-2 24 133 07 03 203 50 09 256 07 31 318 52 30 239 09 33 277 54 4.2
\

206 24 15
350 01 20

6277.4 13924.6

I

152'27.4 e265.1
6748.8

Mulberry J:_'oint _----- - _____ . j 313 04 31 23 51 18 ~urkey Po~ut, (2) --- - --- --- .

6171.3
6288.0

I
i
\!

I

I

3.90 8.65
4.70 3.84

Bare Point. _____ ---------Stephenson .. _. --- - -- · - -- _lio~ew" 1'oillt-----

I Cool Spring .. - __ ·.. ____ . __ .

1 urkey Pomt, (2) ______ · __ ·. 1 \

76 IO 14 133 54 04

5493.6
5749.5 \ tio3-L4 \
758\l.1. <\774'.I>

39 24 3lL73 \76 07 58.15
~ 'l-2. 1.'i> '<>'.!.

.

\ Bare Point ___ · ________ · ___ _ 59 11 4.4 ' Cool Spring __ · ___ .... ___ ... '\ 97 58 29
l\al'.e 1'u\nt ·· __ ··· - - - - ___ .·. \
~te~nelll!On ·· ___ ···· ---- ----

::~:~

3.91
3.42

6287.5
9H2.3
8-289.4
a~1..'3

----

7\> \)() ',?.I.).% \

.

~\) 00 '.?.\) "\."'\) "'1. Im

Name of station.

Latitude.

Longitude.
o
11

{
1 1 \

0

,

"

1

--0-.-,,--1
2'2.5 03 22 278 5137 23117 35 283 43 31 191 15 56

.Azimuth.

To station-

Taylor's Island .··· --------·

39 2'2 44.03 39 20 51.21 39 20 03.59 39 20 06.62

76 10 15.97 76 1317.41 76 09 06.74 76 14
55.~2

I

, Stepbenson ..·· 1 Howell's Point.----·-··--·--!

---··--------1

.I
i
!

(Back azimuth. ( Distance.
o ' "
.Metres.

Distance.

Distance.

-1-'a-r-ds ___ ,_ _ .N_il_es_.

Abbey Island .···.· -------Plum Point----------·-·--·
Lego's Point. .·· _.· _.. _·--.
Sassafras Ricer.

i
!
f

I 2"24 16 47
283 26 33 239 45 05

..···.··...·.. Plum Point.. __ - ··... _. _. __ -1

T~~·Ior'slsland

45 04 49 98 54 C6
19

4658.9 569-Ll 5565.5 6I&L6 5634.6 8400.3 6163.6 273v.7

509-t.8 6226.9 60v"6.3 675.S.3 62Hi.5 9JdfL3 67.f0.3 2986.2

2.90 3.54 3.46 3.84 3.53 4.60 3.S-2 1.70

I 103 51 30 46 10
44 18 3'2 11 16 40

Howell's Point .···.. ·----- --l 1 Stephenson . _·.... _. ___ .... i

Worton Point·----·---· .... i 108 29 03 Abbey Island. ____ .·. __ .. _. 59 46 07

-!

Canby·--···---·-·---· ....
Grove Point. .. - --- ---- -- ..

39 22 0-1.75 39 23 28.65 39 22 01.04 39 23 03.82 39 21 49.85

76 03 22.23 76 02 06.64 75 59 45.41 75 59 51.71 75 57 31.14 75 57 43.06

167 25 r,5 124 ltl 36 144 28 31 10-2 51 12 91 16 48 128 39 33 355 33 2"2 70 08 26
96 08 38

Bar~ Point. ...·.. ---- ___ ---1 Stephenson __ ··.···... __ .·.
Canby ·...······.·········· Grove Point.._ --- ... __ . __ ..

I
347 24 21 304 15 41 7fi31.3 7991.8 5972.9 8626.2 5190.7 4326.4 1941. 7 5357.5 3232.5 4064.5 3.114.4 8345.4 8739.6 6531.8 9433.5 56i6.4 4731.2 2123.4 5858.9 3535.0 4444.81 3624.5 2093.6 4.74 4.97
1

.

Cl:

~a~re Point·----···-·--····· I 3'24 26 59 St<:pheuson · ___ ·· _. _··· ____ . 282 47 29
27114 31 308 38 04

3.71 4.74
3.23 2.69

Goldsborough··---·-----·· Old Orchard Point _. ______ . Clarke --·--- .·····. ··---·

Goldsborough ..· __ ·..··. _... 175 33 26 Canby ·. __ ·..· _. --- · --- ·-·· 1 250 (i6 13 Gnhlsborough ..·.··.·.·. -·-. 276 07 13 Old Orchard Point ....· _·· _. I 304 07 46

3_32
2.01 2.53

1.21

124

(J9

15

Cassidy ______ · - . - - · - . __ - . -1 39 2-2 51. 33

C2 P4 [5

351 37 10

·"Clarke · -·· -· ·············. I 171 Z'l 18

Goldsborough .·· __ .. __ ._ .·.· 1 242 03 38

2.06
1.23

191V.O

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Knight's Island ··.·.······. Ferguson .················· Latitude.

&ction !IL-Head of Chesapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.

!

Longitude.

_!

o ' " j o ' " 39 2'2 18.97 /I 75 56 04.281 39 21 22.48

----------------1------i I
1

Azimuth.
0 ' "

IBack azimuth. ! Distance.\ Distance. !Distance.
,
0 ' "

66 39 18 112 56 12

i Clarke..................... i Cassidy .····...·...·...·...

246 38 23 29'2 55 09
1

Metru. \ 226-l.7 , 2566.8
3B3S. 7 1771.4 2717 .8 2035.5 2498.2 1133.5 1643.7 ' 1296.l i 1736.8 1056.8 ·
I
J

I

I _ __ Yard$. \ llliles. 2476.6 I 1.41 2807 .0 \ 1.60

1 1

75 55 50.80 1135 3.5 34 169 31 0-2 75 54 26.981 121 0-2 27 80 2-2 08 1

Reasin ...·.·.····...·.....
'\Vkker ······.············ Hall ..···.··········.··.·.

39 21 33.54

I
[

39 22 10.461' 75 54 26.71 . 39 2'2

I

IFerguson Kni~ht'slsland . . · . . . . ·· · . . . . . · . . . . . . ·. . .· ··· .
1 i Fer~1son...... ·· ··· .. . ·. ·· . i Rea~m . . · . . . . · · · · . . · . . . · . .
f

! Cassidy.................... ! Knight's Island .. . . ·. . .· .· ..

315 34 23 319 30 54 3!ll 01 25 260 21 14

53 41 53 0 19 45
a2 04 07 95 40 17 133 00 34 H:ll 04 ] 2 145 40 43 107 07 55 50 47 03 12 47 03 43 38 57 91 01 37

233 40 59 180 19 45
23"2 03 33 275 39 43

I I 2972.l I , 2732.0 I 1845.0
4199.0 1937 .2
2'~i6.0

2.39 1.11 1.69 1.27

I

1.55 0.71
1.0'2

. .

00

06.321, 75 53 32.8'2
75 53 33.64 I i

i Wicker .................... 1
! Hall
J

Reasiu .···.. ······ .·.. .·. .

1797.5 1417.4 · 1899.3 : 1155.7 : 178'2.2 1074.2

I

0.81
1.08 0.66 1.01 0.61
~

.Hurtz .· ."·.·.··.····.· ··· ·

39 21 3"2.05

[ Wicker .···..···.......... · 313 00 01 ' Hall ·..··...··..·.··...·.. I 1 04 13

I

i
i

.Maldenburg ·····.········· · 39 21 22.67 j 75 52 54.42 . - : )

...·....··.·.·....··.. f 3'25 40 19 Hurtz .···...····..···..... 1 2tl7 07 30 Uhl 46 55

1629.7 I 98-2.3 '

l
I

i

I

Ford ······.·············· ! 39 22 04.68

I

!

75 52 42.15 75 52 03.48

I Hurtz ..· ·.. ·· · · · ·. ·· . . ·· . . 1 230 46 30
j lfahlenburg ................ ,

1591.0 13".b3.2

I

i

1739.91 1452.5 i

0.99 0.82
1.10 0.58 0.96 ' 0.49
1.23
\) .\tl.

Eldredge ..············..·· ! 39 2"2 04.14 \

I Maldenburg ................ 1 _Ford . . . ... . ·· . .· · · . . . . .· . . '\ Ford . . · · . . · · · · · . · · · · · · . · . .
Eldredge . · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . .

2"23 39 25 271 01 13

1767 .2 , 9-25.8

1932.6 I 1012.4.1 1686.1 \ 856.7 \
'2169.6 I 1.617 .6 \

Gregg .................... '\
1\~

39 21 44.03 \\75 51 43.4;9

: \1114:! ?;_'! 25 1
.-o _

...

\ ·······.··········· \ ~ '21. tll).trl \

'i'- ~

.\'l.~

\{\1 4.9 ~ 'e1 ,<\.1 \.".!.

\·\'F..\i\:re<\\!,e...... ····· ···· ····

Gt~ '-..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

1

294 23 48
32"2 2"2 01
~\ <\.'i', <\.7

ir,.u .s \ 783..t I
\9M.O \ 1.\19.'2

'.m1 .\1:1 ~

O/tz'"rcd &nl'es Oonst Surrey.-6eogrnpnicn/ .Posiri'ons.
Name of station. Latitude.
0 , ,

~"'ecl'ion

III.-Iknd ifOnesnpen.!-e .Iln!/.

Sketch 0.
1

Longitudl".
Q

.Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To station-

. D 1stance. /ID. 1stance. / Distance.

.
---1
I ,,

BushRiru.

Battery...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 21 47 .78 "Wilson .··········.·······.
Elliott ·····.···.··.·..·.. Dorney ·····.···.··.····. ·

76 10 25.31 76 16 00.Bil 76 14 44.01 76 15 38.51 76 15 02.15 76 13 52.47 76 14 00.49 76 14 47.44 76 14 31.18 76 16 23.32.

329 38 19
7
(,9

I !
;

Ct)

Plum Point.. ···.......··.·. j 149 39 09 'Vorton Point ..·.· - ...... - ·. i 187 08 49
I

I
i
J

0

,

"'

Metres.

I
'
1

l'ards.

I
' I I

1---Miles.
2.31 3.18 3.15 3.01
1.14

I

3723.8 1 5112.2 \ 5C63.s 484-t.9

407' ..U! 5590.6

39 22 35.39 39 2"2 34 .26 39 23 31.88

l

3119 22 16 341 16 24 91 115 47
3 35 21 323 43 03

AbbeT Island .·.·....·...... Lego;s Point. ...··....·.·.. · \Yilson .........·.....··..·. Lego'8 Point. ·..·...........

129 23 59

161 17 05
271 04 58 183 35 13

I
I

5537 .6 5298.2 1

I
I

I

FairPoiut ·.······....··... i 39 24 37.99

I l

i !

17 05 11
353 3J 34

I i Elliott ....·.......·...·... I Wilson ·..··..·.........·... !

I

.

<

1840.41

45:2-~

2017 .6 I
4989.51

2.84
1.37
1.3'2

143 43 37 197 04 57

22v4.a 18'2"2 .6

I Chelsea .·····..·········· · I 39 24 43. 37
Chilby Point .··········..·

23 06 45 49 01 16 84 19 30 25 57 33

Elliott .·.··..·........···.. 1 173 30 45 Dorney ..··..· : ··...... ···· 1 203 C6 22 Dorney ····.······....·.... E rur Pmnt .···..·.··...···..

3840. 7 2'216.8 I

I
I
1

1 !

1993.2

2410.81
I

4200.1 2434.2

00 09 264 18 46 i 229
205 G6 54

3361.41
3370 .4 2871.l

1675.3 I

-1

39 26 16.25

356 10 14
39 26 04.05 39 27 13.45
3.1"2

Fair Point .·..·.·····.·····. ! Chelsea .····.····....·.··. · 1 176 10 19 Chelsea .·....····..·.....·. ! 152 09 26 Chilby Point. ··...····..·.·. 71 28 56 CLilby Point ...·..·..·..·.·· Kennard ...·...·.·.·.·.·.. Mauldcn's }fountain ...···... l
Pnncip10 ·················· 1
I

, I

3fi75.9 1832.1

3!X35. s
3139.8 3C77. 9 1294.9

~

I ,
!\

I I

l

2.39
1.38

2.09
1.04

2.09
1.79 1.75
~.74

Kennard ..·········.··

····1
I

cs

52

251 28 27
3.'37 24 50 IO 17 53
263 12 21

2814 .5 usu 1

Hollis · · · · · · · · · · · . · . . · . . . .

157 25 10 190 17 43 83 25 40 58 11 21

1910.7 \
2175.4 24912.5 27733.6

l
I

I 2089.5 i
2379.0

!

1.19 1.35
15.48 17.23

Abingdon Cupola ··········· i 39 27 33.22

27243.8 I

237 58 40

30328.5

1

Uuited Stater Coast Sun:ey.-Gcographical Positions.
___ N_am_e_o_r_s_ta_t_io_n_._ _

Section IIL-Hcad of Chesapeake Bay.

Sketch C.

Lati~~l
0

Longitude.
0 · ,.

J_ _

Az_i_m_u_th_·._ _ _ _T_o station____
0
I II

rBack azimuth.) Distance. \ Distance.1_D_i.&_:t_11n_c_e.

, ,,

Birch Head .· - ··.···· ~ ····.

39 25 10.63

76 18 00.05

I 317 49 31
I

G11npo1cder Ril!tr.
Pool's Island Light .· _·. Pool's Island Signal ····. ---·'

39 17 22.50
39 l6 23.76

16 15 4i.20
76 16 01.39

I I

I I !

I

6 25 04

WortonPoinL ······ ---- ···· Carroll's Island ······.·····.

I

I

0

1

''

137 54 03 186 24 28

Metres. 15276.2 11996.7

Y11rds. \ l670f>.6 I 13119.2

176 17 23

345 18 47

Osborne's Ruin ..····.·· ---· l\lit<:hdl's Bluff ·.·.·..·····.

356 16 50 165 19 42
157 15 34 240 35 22 294 57 09 2265552 139 2-J 11 212 15 15 158 ()9 53 142 28 28

19442.7 , 21262.0 8170.5 8935.1 /'

I I

I

1

Mile11. 9.49 7.45

12.08 5.C8
4.10 9.32
J.48

Rickett's Point -- - · - ·· - - - .. , 39 18 11.58

Spry's Island ·····.· - ..·· _. , 39 17 39.58
Grace's Qm1rter .·.·..... -- . 39 20 45.98

76 17 26.18 I 114 I 46 ! 76 19 16.85 i 319 3:2 76
1!)

I

14 26 I 337 60 41 C6

i

Mitl"hell's Bluff............. lllackl\Iarnh ·.···.·····.···· Carrnll's Island............. }liller"slsland ··........... l\Iitl"hell's Bluff............. :Miller's Mand ······ ·---.... Carroll's Island · · · · · . . · · · · · . Rickett'sPoint ·--····-····CaIToll's Island .. - .....·· - ·· Grace'sQuarter.............
}fa~weWs

I
I'

6606.4 14998.4 2374.0 6768.0

7224.6, 16-101.8 j 2596.l
74UL~ti

..

00

58 06
58 (i3

I

4.21
6.90 2.67

19 00 i6 16

58.95

338 09 13
3'2-2 26 51 7 00 27
63 C2 10

Muwell's Point. ········· - . : 39 21 20.64

76 18 31.26

I

187 00 12 243 01 15
178 49 53 129 15 20 154 36 19

I lJ112.6 4297.1 , 4050. 3 I 6004.7 4864.3 I / 2:355.7
I
28:lLl 2Tt0.l

12152.9 4699.4 j 2429. 3 6566.61

!

i
I

2.52
3.73 3.02 1.46

5319.5 I 2576.1 i

Harewood -----· ········.. Piny Point _·· -- _ ······· __
'Taylor's 1.lmmt ······.·· - -

39 2-2 17 .78 39 23 16.13

76 20 01.371'

358 49 52
309 14 23

Grace's Quarter. -- .·.... --·. Point ·· !'... . . . . . . .

auoo.o
4311..1

I
i

1.76
1.73

3{)45.7 :
~C~~4

' \

76 19 41.93 \334 35 35
16 ~ IY1 -~

I )foxm'll's P<lint.............
\''m'S\'<:,'Ul.t ·· -- - · - - - --- -- -- - -\

14 30 13
2">1 \,\',

:\Harcwoo.il ··---· -·----· ----\, 1!)4 30 00 R:wewooil ·----· ------- -·--\ 12\) M 51)
\.\)\. '2\) '2~

~ 23 38.'iS \

'.\\l'J ~·.'. ~I)

w

...

\

2942.5
1258.5

2.45
1.16
2.43 2.'2l.

~21.1

\
\

~-s

4288.0 I '8189.u \

i

I
--N._am_e_o_f_st_an-·o_n_._ _ ( -]fiddle Ricer. Carroll's Lower Island .···.. Holly Point Korth .··.····.. Thick Neck Point ·····..· - . Piney Point. ; ··· - .·.......
Q
I If

I

I

Latitude.

( Longitude.

(

Azimuth.

(

To srntion-

Back azimuth. Distance.
0 , ,,

Distance. !Distance.

I
!
I i

t

,-----\------------1-----------1-----l---0 , "

39 17 51.83 39 17 08.18

76 20 28.97

I
i
I

I

I

0

'

"

I
!

Metres. 4050.9 4421.5
3.')00.8 1250.0

Yards. 4430.2
483.~.2

Miles.
2.52 2.75
2.18 0.78

8 01 24 262040-

' r P"kett ·p· s umt - - . - ...·.. - - .
.Jl'.

i 1

~filler's

IFland ..··.. ____ -·-·

188 01 G9
8'2 06 03

i I
I·

76 2-2 43.85 · 247 2-2 59 179 18 08 76 2-2 4-1.49

! Carroll's Lower Island .·.. _..
T~ick.Xeck Point .......·...

67 24 25 359 18 08

38-28.5 1367.0 5190.3 3550.2
~9.4

39 17 48.72
39 18 34.51

I
I

I

76 24 51.54 i 294 52 4S

I
I

I

3'25 34 36
208 17 57

::lhllers IF!and ·.....·... --··.1 145 3.'5 46 Carroll's Lower Island. __ .·· · J 88 19 23
Thi_ck X~<:k ~oint .····.. ·---\

4746.2 3-2413.2 3355.4 4055.3

2.95 2.0-2 2.08

:m 01 10

Holly Pom· Xmili. - - - - - .. - - .
11

114 54 09 132 02 31

4434.9

2.52

Back Ricer. Holly Point South ·····.·... Hart's Island ·····.···.···. Rocky Point .·.···.··...·.. Townsend ...·... ··--·· .... Protlu ·····.·····.··..··..
·

1 39 16 33. 18 i 76 22 40 .86 ; 232 29 21

39 14 38.53' 39 14 53.05
39 13 ;;2.6-l

i 76 2'2 3-LlO l 231 18 4l
177 2'2 43 76 23 44.781 76 24 35.72 76 24 38.50 2fl6 23 3"2 284 47 48
24-! 0(} 26 213 14 (j(]

301 2;; 03

C'tmoll's Lower Island._ ..· _. , 52 3() 44 Miller's Island .. _.. ___ . _____ i l:Zl 26 11
)filler's Mand .·. - ..··· ____ . Holly Point South .·······.· -

3983.6

4356.5

2.48

!

I

3042.2
3118.6 3538.9 3446.7

3326.9
3410.4 3570.0

1.90
1.93
2.~J

51 19 51 357 2-2 39

JI olly Point South .····. - ·. _. Hart's Island .. _·..·..·· - -- . Hart's Island ..·.... ·-·- ... . Rucky Point ..·... ··---- ... . Hart's l>land ..····. ---· .·.. Townsencl ··.·..··.··.····..

26 24 13
104 48 33. 64 07 43 33 15 28

3769.3

·

2.14

1752.8
3""241.6 22'27 .6

1916.9
3544.9 2436.1
3277.l

l.C9

i
I
i

2.01
1.39

39 14 47 .86

2i5

2!)

55

95 31 14

I 3;";7 45 25

li7 45 27

2900.6 170-1.0

1.86

1863.6

1.06

United States Coast Sun:cy.-Geograpliical PO$itio111.
Nlllllt: of station. Latitude.

Section

IIL-Cl1e.~apcake

Bay.

Sketclt C.
Distance. \ Distance.

I
I

Longitude.
0

I

Azimuth.
0

To station-

Back azimuth.

IDistunco.

Lynch .····.··.····.··.·.. Porter...... · · · · · · . · . · ·

1

~ 1~ ~.00 I 76 26 33.39
I 'I

- - - - · - - - - - - - ------I II

,

39 15 15.96 39 16 13.9'2
39 16 27.0-2

.I
i
;

308 42 51 2dl 2d 3;.)
290 27 36

0 I II . ' ! Tomisend .····.........···· : 128 44 06

Proviu .·....·..·..·....···
TO\\llSt<llll. ················ ·
1'

llJl 29 43 144 5.1 04 116 28 2-2

Metres. 3Gl6.5 ; 2310.7 '

Yards. 3!!54~9 3u73.6 3435.2 2126.1

76 25 51.09 : ~ 52 18 76 26 42.96 76 2°6 00.}9 76 27 38.86 353 45 (;5 325 10 32
6<."i

' Pronn ..···........····.···.

Stansbury's Point .····.···.
Johnson .·····.·····.···.
Woodyard .··············· .' Patapsco Ricer.

i
I

, J.ync-h .·····.·····.···· ···· / 173 45 11 : Porter .··................... 145 11 05

!

3141.l 19.14.2 2106.6 ' 2177.1 . 2621.9 1101.8 2w9.8
3()-29.3

1.95 1.21 1.31 1 .za
o~

23)3.7 23S0.8 2867.2 12u5.0
29J8.7 3312.9

'

17 40 34 2!) :l9

i Lynch ...........·..·..·... 197 40 13 ' Stansbury' s Point. ...·.·.... : 248 29 0-2
Stansbury's Point ..··.··.... : Johnson ..·........·...···.. 149 46 01 128 ~ 13

1.63 0.68 1.65 1.88

39 17 28.44

329 45 2G 3Jd 41 11

I
I

Bodkin, (signal) ······.···· .;
North Point .···········...

39 08 01.9'2
39 11 40.81

76 25 09.28

I
I

266 24 01 0 00 04

86 29 29 Swan Point... . · . · . . · · · · · · . . Gibson's Isl1111d ....··.····.· : ISO 00 0-2 · Swan Point. .········.···..· : 112 52 56 : Bodkin .......··..·.·..··.· ' 165 45 10 Swan Point. . . · · · . . . . . . . . . · . Black Marsh............... Bodkin...... . ·. . .. ..· . .·..
\

12505.4 6337 .2
I

13575.5 6930.2 16837 .2 7615.1 16573.5 2399.8

7.77 3.94 9.57 4.33 10.42 1.37 9.81 4.48
I

76 26 2J. 70 I 292 46 43 I 3!!) 44 25

i
I

15393.5 6903.5 15155.4 2194.5

, North Point Lotca Light .··. '

39 11 35.93

76 26 12.48

II

29'2 3-2 45 2"~ 08 11

112 3S 53 46 08 53 103 16 28
~ 1~ &;

. North l'oint UppeT L\gbt .··. \ 39 11 46.08 ;. 76 26 35.8G \ '292 48 3i

Swan Point ..····..·.··..... , 112 55 00

_

~ ~b.t........ ...... ~ l)S ~\..'<'>\\\\ 'l~ ~ 1:1\\.IB ~~\I'.?.
'.!iW> '.2A

'\

I

3.\315 33

~

\ ~"'""' ~ui.u'-. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

."M.\teb.eW., "B\u\'I' ·············\·\

15794.6 1727Z.5 7217 .6 \ 7893.0 \
' 183!l-2.6 "l~W··~ 2.00ll'>.3

~~ ~

"\.~'$2..S

1\.i'l
''i.77

\

o;u&:a S.e'a.t<l:r Cuan Suroey.-6'e4,o-rupkrca/ .Pusi/ii:>n.s.
Name of station.
----------

-

Sec.tz0n II£-CM.tapeake .Bay.
To station{Back azimuth.
o ' "

Bkelch {/.

(

Latitude.
c ' "

( Longitude.

i

u

'

"

1·--

{

.Azimuth.
0 - - ,- , , - ,

RockPointBank .··.·.··.. 1 390839.13 1762659.0512010955 1 293 30 30 1 t:> ) \ WRock Point ····..·····..·.. j 39 09 59.51 , 76 28 19.07 308 29 30 2-22 16 31

l'Blac~llirsh ..·.···..·······
i

I

f Distance. f Distance. f Distance.
/ Metre!'.
!I

211106 Bodkin ·.··.···.··.···.··.. 1 , 113 31 39
Bodkin ...................
Nort~ Point..·..·..·.....·..

) )

7477.2 2874.8

Yards. j 8176.8, 3143.6 I
46~7 .1

Milu.

4.~

i
i

-II
1

128 31 30 42 17 46

I
I
I!

I

~23.2
422"2.0

. 1

WIB.2

I

1.19

1

23_-~ """
5.09
9.18

Ridgely's Steeple House.···· ( 39 1227.331· 76 25 2-2.37 SparrowPoint. ..··..····.. j 39 12 35.73

357 48 08 300 0-2 15 293 00 07 346 36 12 314 23 13 268 15 04 313 10 11 39 41 24

\ Bodkm ...· .... ··.. ··.· ·... 177 48 16 Swan Point. ................ 1 120 07 52
1

1 \ 8190.0 1 1 8956.3 I,· 14779.6116100.5
4331.3 4951. 7 672.'i.S 1 3658.6 4736.6 5415.0

I
1

76 29 06.86·

J

NorthPoint ..·..·.·......... 1113 01 52 j Rock Point................. 166 36 42 \ Rock Point.................
! SparrowPoint.... .··. ..··. Hawkins' Point. .··....·· ~--

2.69 3.08 4.18 2.27 1.71 1.61 4.15 3.87 4.30 4.46

Hawkins' Point ...·...·..·.. \ 39 12 32.13 1 76 31 39.30 1

I

I Sparrow Point.... . · . . . . . . . .
Hawkins' Point............. Sollers' Point...............
Sollers' Point............... Hawkins' Point......... . . . . Sollers' Point............... Lazaretto .··· .·.· ··.· .. ···.

134 25 20 8S 16 40 133 11 04 219 40 40 150 37 14 127 49 25 124 39 12 145 41 27 70 41 15 15 45 39 13852 20231370

i t Sollers' Point ..···.··...·.. ; 39 1.3 36.71 j 76 30 30.42 Lazaretto.. ...··. ... . .. .··.
Fort McHenry, (t1ag-sta1f)
I

I 39 15 40.63 :
/

2748.3 2587.6

I

i

7355.l 4000.9 3005.5 2829.7 7295.5 6817 .2 7372.7 7848.0 7725.1 6999.7

76 33 55.83

3.'30 35 48 307 47 15
304 36 42 325 39 40

6233~9 /

6671.3 I

I I

. =

39 15 44.34 / I 76 34 28.05

I

6924.7 7176.4

I

Snow Hill. ...·............

i
I

39 12 20.86

!

Rosanne···············--·!,
Washington Monument, Balti.more.

39 17

Z'l.491

I I
I

i

!

76 35 08.31

250 38 19 195 44 53 232 16 16 318 11 2-2

i I

7064.1 6400.8

I

4.39

3.98

76 42 45.82 76 36 38.58

l.

Finlay ..·..·......... Linstid ·.·..·.·.··..·····..

······1'

I' 3021128056 ..61

li
1

23(1':26.311 3"2947 .7 28103.8 11647.2

18.n
15.96
5.48

13.08

39 17 47 .80 .

334 00 43
85 57 41

Linstid ··.·..···..········. 1 154 05 39 R-0slUllle .··················· j 265 53 4S

25699.1 6821.7

United States Coast Suri:ey.;_Geog'raphical Positions. Section !IL-Chesapeake Bay. Sketch
Name of station.

(J.

I

:~·~

...

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0
I

I

To station-

1Back azimuth.
0

Distance~

'Distance. Distance.

I ,___
.Mile8.
9.24 10.0S 12.23 12.00 3.31 4.18 4.38 7.29 3.33 8.99 3.S-J 4.94 6.19 1.87 · 3.57 2.38 3.14 1.51
3. 38
~,e\

CHESTER RlvEF,

' "

' "

II

' "

Metres.

Y11rds.
16260.1 11650.2 21531.4 21116.9 5920.5 7359.2 7708.3 12827.6 5865.0 7021.1 6734.9 8686.4 10893.6 3'290.7 6286.2 4187.8

carville .················.·
wright's 1Iill ··············
Wickes ···················

38 59 44.07
38 58 09.21 39 01 47.46 39 05 35.00 39 00 46.42 39 00 43.91 38 59 38.49 39 02 41.87 39 03 24.88 39
o~

76 16 57.56 76 14 18.35 76 14 17.47 76 13 49.27 76 12 42.96 76 11 36.45 76 10 03.64 76 10 46.65 76 12 14.41
76 10 55.61

127 21 32 18'2 23 23 127 22 08 170 36 40 45 21 55 0 11 00 5 31 33 22 43 34 25 21 03 72 36 01 39 15 31 T6 35 55 91 01 48 132 00 32 349 37 59 18 14 O'l 349 34 40 30'2 08 49 357 44 04
~'\!>~
I

Gibson's Island .······.··· .-. Swan Point .··············.. Gibson's Island ............. Swan Point ···········.····· Carville ...···.············. W'right's Mill .·.··..··.··... Wickes ···...········.····. Carville.·.···.··.······.···. Wright's llfill .··.··.········ Carville .··················· Wright's Jifill ..············· Cnrvi]le .................... Carrille .................... Hall Point. ................ Lord's Gift .·····.·.·······. HailPoint .................. Hail Point ..···········.··· Piny Point .··.···...······.

307 16 22 . 2 23 41 307 16 05 350 35 17 225 20 14 180 11 00 18.5 31 15 202 41 35 205 20 03 252 33 20 219 13 49 2J>6 32 32 270 57 28 312 05 34 169 38 26 198 13 32 169 35 04 12'2 09 45 li7 44 09
Z{l'\ '\~

14868.8 16140.0 19689.1 19310.0 5413.9 6729.5 7048.7 11730.0 5363.2 6420.3 6158.6

Wilson ···················
Cedar Point .···········..·

H ail Point.··········..····

7943.2
9961.5 3009.l 5748.3 3829.4 5046.8 249'2.3
54:"\9.6
~~-~

Lord's Gift ................
Piny Point ··············.·
~stem

Neck Inlet .········

5519.0 2725.5
5948.6 <\94'"( ,9

lI.o.rds ····················

as.u

\ l'iny Poin~ ...··.··.··.···· Y.11.1>teri1. l\ee\. lli,\et ···· ''"" ..

<\i)

Name of station.

I 1

Latitude.
0
I II

Lower Spaniard's Point .··.. Nichols ·····..··.·······..
Upper Spaniard's Point .··.

39 05 30.41

I I
!
I

Longitude.

r __A_zi_·m_u_th_._ ----~-o_sta_ti_·o_n_ _ _ _ / Beck azimuth. / Distance. / Distance. f Di.stance.

I

I

I

I

I

o / '' ( 760825.77 1
J

I

o · " 545203 934831

EasternNecklnlet .···....·. Harris .·..............···.

o ' " 2344938 2734657

Metres. 6721.6! 3608.3j

I

Yards. 7350.5 3945.9

Miles 4.18 2.24

39 06 16.69 ( 76 09 29.75 39 05 49.23 39 06

I
I
1

60 03 36 312 52 IO
48 34 17 111 06 14
91 31 53 71 03 06

Harris........ ·... .... ..·. Lower Spaniard's Point......
Lower Spaniard's Point...... Nichols....................
Nichols.... . . · . . . . . .· · . · · . . Upper Spaniard's Point...... L'pper Spaniard's Point...... Emory . . . . . . . . ·. . . ... . . · . . Deep Point................. Emory............ ·... .... Emory .....·......·...·.... Commegys ·..·.··.···.··... }Inmmer .····.·...·.···... Commegys .·.·.····..····..
Commegys ...···.·······.·. Smith .···..·.·.·.·· _..·.··. Smith .................... .. Shell Point .·.·...·.····...· Shell Point .........·..·.... Holliday ···················

240 02 42 132 52 50

2380.71 2097.7

2603.5 2294.0 959.4 2572.7 4733.5 2465.2 2228.4 744.8 1314.5 1561.6 1414.2 616.1 1595.2 1783.8
3065.4 1468.o

1.48 1.30

-11

76 07 58.39 i 76 06 29.66 76 06 50.03

228 34 00 291 05 16
271 29 59 251 02 11 233 42 23 134 03 56 219 30 33 191 07 08

877 .31 2352.6 1
1

0.55 1.46
2.69 1.40

Emozy ···················.

12.991
!

Deep Point. ····.····..·..

39 06 28.351

! 52 43 05 I 314 03 43
1

1

4328.41 2254.3 2037. 7 681.1 1202.0 1427.9 1293.3 563.4
j!

~

1.27 0.42

Commegys ···········.···· j 39 06 58.431 76 06 18.20

39 30 53 11 07 15

Mummey ·················. 1 39 06 47.62 Smith ···· .··.·····..··.·.
Shell Point .·····.······.·.
Holliday ···········.···.·. Gauld ····················

i
I

! i
l
I
i
i

· 0.75 0.89 0.80 0.35
0.91 1.01

·

co

76 05 59.28 76 05 17.25

i

39 07 21.761 39

i
!

I

34 21 08 126 16 0-2
43 48 27 63 50 0-2 46 20 06 24 52 01
64 38 55

214 20 49 3()6 15 50
2-23 48 01
243 49 24

oa 01.21 I

76 04 53.791

39 07 40.26 / 76 04 27.16
39 OS 37

I l

226 19 13 204 51 46
244 38 23 315 17 33 240 35 05

1458. 7 I i 1631.2 ; \ 28{)3.l I 1340_5

135 17 50
60 35 57

1331.4 908.9 2271.5 2'212.9

I

1.74 0.83 0.83 0.57 1.41 1.37

.381

l

76 03 31.381

37 15 27

217 14 52

I l

1456.0 993.9 2484.0 2420.0

United States Coast Surt·cy.-Gcogr11J.>liical Positio11s.
I
Name Clf station.
·

Section IIL-Gl1csapeale Bay.

Sketch O·.
Distance.. Distance. Yards. Miles.

Latitude.
0
I

Longitude.
0 I N

,f/

l---·
0 /
ll

/

Azimuth.
/,'

)_ _ _ _ T_o_s_ta_ti_o_n-. ____

!~muth. ) Dista.nce.
0 .'
/I

!

I

Vickers ·············· ___

39 09 16.73
39 09 44.51 39 09 23.40

76 04 14.76 \ 76 03 04.90 76 0-2 36.23 76 01 36.07 76 0-2 00.57 76 03 25.43 76 04 02.62 76 03 34.35

5 43 20 319 21 26 17 04. 59

j Holliday _··· __ - ··· --- -·- -·-

Metres.

\Gauld ······ ····--·····----

185 43 12 139 21 53 197 04 43 242 56 25 265 01 29 2-2

2989.6
1598.9

3269.3
1748.5

1.86 0.99 1.35
1.17 1.48

&.

Merritt .············· _. .

62 57 09
85 ro 31 133 24 40
70 47 38 46 00 59

I
i
I

( Gauld ..···. ···-- -·-·······

2165.3
1883.2
2374.3

'Y'fokcrs .····· ------- ··----

I

2367.9
2059-4 2596.5 1035.9 2469.3 2195.0
1&..~.6

Wilmer...................

lforriwn .·.··.· -----·----

39 10 08.61

l

i S. Merritt - - · - ·. _..·. - .. _. - _ 313 24 i
: S. 1\Ierritt ................. .

1 Vickers····-- - ---·-- ···-·-

947.3
2'2"8.0 2007.2 1544.I

0.59
l.40 1.25

Clement.a.·--_ ............ 1 39 JO 54-9'2
. !

I
l

Wilmer.··-·-· ...·........

250 46 42 2-26 00 21 196 52 3-2 157 37 4G 154 09 40 79 19 46
104 29 48 141 58 00

16 52 54 337 37 30 334 09 09 259 18 53

) Harrison ····..·····.·····. I 'Yilmer ...·.............··.

2949.0
2708.8

3224_9
296-2.3

0.96 l.83 1.68

J. W. Merritt .········
~ff)ial'ke ···············

----1
i

39 10 42.46

\ 'Yihuer ·..........·...·.··.
( Clements .·.·····..·.· - .·.. I

2072.6
3025.l 1448.3
1658.0 844.8 1526.8

2-266.5
3308.2 158:l.8
1813.1

L29 L83
0.90

, . ;"'

..

--·-j 39 11 19.45
39 11 35.78

284 28 31
321 57 36

1

\ Clements .······.·· -··· ·..· J. ,Y. 3lerrht ....... -·· ..··

Primrose, (1).... .··. ···...

352 35 I1 53 25 37
17 31 32 347 04 14

/ J. W. Merritt ..··.. -··· ··.. / Clarke ·· -··· - -·· - · -- - ····.
I

172 35 17 233 25 19 197 31 20 167 04 20 195 38 31 216 57 30
2363838 259 ~1 59

9-23.9
1669.8 10tR8
2-248.4 1405.9

1.03
0.53 0.96

Chestertown, (1)..... ······

39 12 06.67

76 03 43.47 I
76 03 11.25

I

Clarke ·····.······ -----·--

Chestertown, (2) .·····.···. \ 39 12 39.99

15 38 46
36 57 51

I
Wilel'll°P<ii:u\ ............. _\
\

l

1 Primrose, (1) ..· ___ . ---· - ---

977.3
2056.0 1285.6
2244..9

0.61
1.28
0.80
1-40 0.70

~ 1.~ 4.6.'10

Primrose, (1)------ -----· I Chestertown, (1) ..···. ·----..b.estertown, (1) ········ _··· C \ Cb.e.stenown, (.2) ......

2455.0

1121-4

1226.3

United Slactes Coast St/.1'1Jey.-Geogrophical Positions.
Name of station.

Section III.-Chesapeake Bay.
To station-

Slcetch C.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0

l__
\'

Azim_._u_th_._,
0

\Back azimuth., Distance.

I
I I
i

Distance. (Distance.

Ho.~well ·······

·----·-·-·II
I

39 13 15.34 39 13 25.14 39 14 03.54 39 14 09.35

76 0'210.46 76 0115.48

'

"

5313 48 2157 55 54 43 01 77 05 33 51 46 54

'

"

I

C~est~rto~, (2) ...·...·....

I
1

0

1

, W~ey,sPo~t ....········...

2.13 13 09 20157 46 257 04 58

'

''

Metres.

1~0.6
~2.2

Yards. 1991.0 I 1041.3
2243.6 1479.5 2626.5

I

M"ilu. 1.13 0.59

Prnnrose, (2) .····· ---···-·I

1
'I

\ WileysPomt ...····.·.·.··. , I Hopewell ·..···.····..··... ,

1 234 42 17

2051.9 1352.9 2401.8

1.28 0.84 1.49

Wallis---· .... ·---- ... -- ..
Opossum Point ..····· ---·-·

76 00 51.791 76 00 09.97 75 59 38.98

j Hopewell ..···· -----···--··: 231 46 04

I
Longford .· ---··: ······ --- · 1 Double Creek Pomt .···· - .. Double Creek }farsh.·.···· ·

I

I

: : :
79 52 18 47 13 49 61 15 56 88 43 11 136 19 23 73 40 55 524544 29 40 24 336 52 08 59 38 45 84 57 38 109 06 46 172 58 24

I:::::~:~::::::::::: ::::i ··-·I : : :
Wallis ·.·.··········...

259 51 52

1018.6 3152.8 1991.3 1455.8 1031.0 2394.5 1058.3 1288.5 520.9 1158.2 1208.7 1345.6 550.8

:::~ :~~::

1113.9

:::
0.63
1.06 1.24
1

39 14 34.59

39 14 10.41

· 75 59 09.28 \ 75 58 34.15 i 75 58 42.69

_I
I
I
1

I

I

v; allis ··-·--·. - - - - ····· - · - · ' ! OpoillmI!l Point _ .·· - ·.· - - - - · \ 268 42 32 Longford ___________________ , 316 19 04
Opossum Point. ..··.······. \ 253 39 54 DoubleCreekPoint .····.··,.! 23-2452"2 Double Creek Point.·--- ·.·. 209 40 07 Double Creek Marsh .····... , 156 5213 DoubleCreek}Iarsh ··.·.·.. i 239 3819 'Valker ····..··.. -----· 264 57 07

P~m!ose, (2) ........... ·-·-I

2"27 12 48 241 15 11

3447.8 1 2177 .6 159-2.0 1127.5

I

.
0

0

(").

0.91 0.64 1.49 0.65 0.80
o.~

·

=

I

1

1

39 14 31.18

2618.61 1157.3 1409.1 569.71

i I Muddy Marsh ··.···········
1

'\\"alker ..··.·...··.......· 1 39 14 46.72
39 14 50.17 39 14 3-2.44

I
j·

I

I

...,.,_..,,_. ········\
i

7: 57 42.471. . 7a 57 49.67

-···1

1266.6 13-21.8 · 1471.5 602.4 1679.7 1338.5

I

0.72 0.75
0.84 0.34 0.96 0.76

Walker.................... 289 06 13 Muddyl!arsh .·······..····. / 352 ~ 22
Muddy Marsh .········ ------( 306 27 08 Beckington's Marsh ········· 1 287 23 31

1

Thomson's Marsh ·········· , 39 14 20.57

75 57 00.941 · 126 27 41 107 24 02

1536.0 1224.0·

United States Coast Surv&y.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
0

Section IIL-Ohesapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch 0.
Distance. Distance.
Yards. 2033.4 866.2

I

Longitude.
0

I

:Azimuth.
0

Back azimuth. Distance.
0

Sprigg ················· - .·

39 14 33.11 39 14 11.80 39 14 28.15 39 14 41.49 39 14 34.73 39 14 47.06

' "

75 36 32.11 75 55 54.95 75 55 41.56 75 54 52.00 75 54 17.80 75 53 11.91

' "

&'9 22 11
60 47 14 103 02 30 126 24 49 97 12 49 32 29 29 58 46 0'2 70 54 14
84 14 36

' "

,

Beckington's Marsh ······.·· Thomson's Marsh ······.·.·· Beckington's Marsh ..·.····· Sprigg···-······-·- ........
Sprigg ...········...·····.· Suttou ·······..··...·.·.··.

269 21 2"2 240 46 56 283 01 17 306 2! 25 277 12 17 212 29 21 238 45 22
250 53 42

"

Metres. 1859.4 79-2.1

·

ltfilu. 1.16 0.49
1.75 0.69 0.76 0.37 1.10 0.78 1.26 0.53 1.49 1.01

Sutt-0n ······.·········.··. Brewer's Point .···········. Slaughter ..··············. Owen ·····················
Kirby .··· - .··········· ··-.
Kent Island and opposite shore.

28'23.3 1107.4 1221.8 597.5 1765.4 1257.7 2018.7 846.2 2405.9 1624.9

3087.5 1211.0 1336.1 653.4 1930.6 1375.4 2"207.6 9'J5.4 2631.0 1777.0

Sutton .·.····.··.·.···.··.· Brewer's Point ..·.····.····· Brewer's Point ······..··.··· Slaughter .···.······.···..· Slaughter ·.·····..···.····. Owen .······.······..······

104 17 21 85 55 15 76 28 13

264 13 43 28-1 17 00 265 54 13 256 27 31

Kent Island, (1) ······ ·-·--·
ezick ··················. Sandy Point ···············
~ntlslsnd,(2) ············

39 01 49.35 39 01 00.83 39 01 07.5]

76 18 46.78 76 23 24.42 76 23 28.45 76 20 21.98

195 0'2 33 141 21 59 169 01 28 257 20 49 169 16 14 259 11 31

Swan Point ··.········.····· Bodkin .·········.········· Bodkin ..····..···.········ Kent Island, (1) ····..·.····· Kentlsland, (1)..... ·.·. .···
Gibson'~

15 04 00 321 17 58 349 00 22 77 23 44 79 14 28

12698.7 I 14713.4 13226.7 6843.9 13006.2 6896.9

13886.9 16090.l 14464.2 7484.3 14223.2 7542.2 14729.l 74.\3.7 \

7.89 9.14

8.22
4.25

llOOliln · · · · · · · ············· \ 349 15 I 0

8.08
4.29

38 58 21.48

1.\9 09 20 100 39 23

Island.............

Kent hlaud, (.\). · · · ·· · . · · · · ·

329 00 15 19 .\0 2\\

13468.8
I
~.6

8.37

4.

l!nited States Coast SiLn:ey.-Geograpliic-al Position.t. Sel:tion III.-Cliesapealce Bay. Sketch C.
Back azimuth.
GI
I

ff

0

,

,,

Q

,

"

0

, ,,

kentlslaru1,(3)............ Thomas' Point.............

38 57 02.03 38 54 25.o9

76 21 08.94 76

157 35 45

201 06 09

Gibson's Island ···········.. Kent Island, ( 1) ·..··.····.. North Base .····....·······. South Base: ..·.···········. Kent Island, (1) ·..····.··.. Thomas' Point .····.·.···...
Hackett's Point ......·.····. Thomas' Point ·····.·.····..

337 33 11 21 07 39

Milu. 9.42 5.90
I

26 52.07

I

232 54 02 278 01 47 240 47 55 16 09 13
149 05 52 89 04 52

52 58 16
9i:! 05 04
60 51 51 196 08 13

7.57 4.73

Hackett's Point............ Price's Point..............

38 59 0"2.82 38 54 29.21

76 25

09.221
39.361

6.5.5
5.54
6.11 4.68

76 21

3'29 03 40 269 01 36

Bloody Point . . · ·· . · ·. . ·. . .
Greenbury's Point..........

33 50 52.47
38 58 21. 79 38 56 20.71

76 22 29.72 76

136 03 36
19-2 27 58 313 12 21 I 243 48 0-2
.r'

Thomas' Point ..·..····.·... 316 00 51 1 South Base ················· , 12 28 30 Price's Point . ~ .··...·..··.. Hackett's Point ...···..···.. Thomas' Point ....··.···.··. Price's Point ..··········... 133 15 40 63 49 09 183 09 23 115 07 47
I

9108.4
56-22.2
10469.7 2867.0

9960.7

6148.3
11449.4 3135.3 3901.4 8861.2

5.66 3·49

26 56.12

6.51
1.78

Tallis' Pofut..... ··.· .····.

76 26 44.oo 16 29 09.41

Annapolis Stat~house ···.·. : 38 58 40.18

I
I

3 09 28 295 04 36
248 39 59 305 29 31

3567.6 8103.0

5.04
9.99 8.27

2.22

I
Magothy and Ser;ern Riurs. \
LL'<STID ····· - · ·· · · ···· ··· ·

I
1

I

Kent Island, (1) ···········. Price's Point ·········..···.

68 46 31
125 34 14

1 13317.5

16075.4

17579.6 14563.6

39 05 18.39

Peraimon Point.... · · · · · · · · · 39 02 51.88

:: : =~=

1 ··;;.;· ;;

137 42 2i

-~----~~:::;:::::::::: ·- ~- -~·-· 1·--~~~~-·- ~ ;~ - ·- -~ ~ ~
:::::: ;;

I,imQd ······ ···· ···· ······

317 40 41.

610i.i

&lio.4

3.79

United 15tates Coast Survey.-Geographical Positi~. Section IIL-Ch.esapeake Bay. Sketch C.
___ N_am_e_o_r_st-ati-·o_n_._ _ _ _ L_a_ti_tu_d_e_._ Longitude.
0

\__ A_zi_m_u_th_._, ____ T_o_st_a_ti_·o_n_ _ _ _ / Back azimuth.\ Distance.\ Distance. [ Distance.
0

Pettibone .·······.··.···.·
Stony Point ·········.·····. Hickory Poiut .··.···.····· Strawberry Plains .·.······. Aisquith Hill ............. . Shop Hill . ·.···. ······ ·.·.

o ' " i ' " j ' " 39 0-2 25.08 i 76 24 44.55 I 171 39 24 114 49 36

I

/

/ o ' " Gibson's Island............. 351 39 09 Persimon Point. .····. ······ 1294 48 49

I
1 1 .

Metres.

4~2.1

2479.3 23-W.9 3457 .4 2408.6 478-2.9 40'23.0 5264.8 5790.1 2060.5 9098.3 507l.3 2356.5 4602.9 i 3.'t2"2. l

Yards. \ 4475.0 \ 2711.l

Mil.es. 2.54 1.54.

39 04 06. 71 i 76 25 45.44 39 05 16.83 76 27 09.75 76 29 42.62 76 30 53.79 76 34 23.00
I

I I
i
1

7 58 57 334 57 39 91 09 29 339 08 04

Pers!mon Point............. Pettibone · · · . ·· . ··. . .. . ·. . .

187 58 48 154 58 17

2547 .9 \ 3780 .9 i 2634.0 5230.4 4399.4 5757.4 6331.9 2"253.3 9949.6 5545.8 2578.9 5033.6

1.45 2.15 1.49 2.97 2.50

39 03 14.54
39 0-2 37.32,
39 0-2 58.16

I 198 20 09
. 1

i Persimon Point.............
i

Linstid ...·..····...·.. ····ii 271 08 26 159 08 49

2'24 14 59
210 55 43 236 08 55

I
'

I

L~stid ... ·: . ····..···.···. / Hickory Pomt. ···.··..·... · \
· ·

I
!
1

I I
I
f
1

18 20 42 44 16 37 30 57 01 56 09 39

3.27
3.60

I

i Strawberry Plains .·····.··. ·
i Linstid
' ~1sqm A"

: Lmst1d ··..·.

··············!

1.28

.
0

t::I

(')

Brewer'$

Hill--··..........

39 01 32.69 . 76 31 46 fJl 39 01 05.89 · 76 ~ 40.72 3S 59 35.6-2 , 76 30 15.6l SB 59 49.58
38.57 00.16

i

241 36 02 Zl7 15 57 212 14 56 124 56 55 148 04 30 105 20 29 196 46 59 148 55 34 151 11 12 78 36 51
165 06 31
\SI,}~

I "th Hill ····.····..···· I Aisquit~ Hill ..·.·..·...·.·. \
iI
I

.....····.·.·.····· -1

61 39 3-2 97 18 09
3-2 15 29

, 1

5.65 3.15 l.47 2.86

Watl\ins,(1)..... ·····. ··.·

I Aisqulth Hill .....····..···. I

i Shop Hill ·.·...···.·..··... , 304 5517 ! I
3"28 03 44 Brewer's Hill .··........... · 1 285 19 10 16 47 21 328 54 37

I

3126.3
2907.2 4215.0

3632.9 3418.8
3179.21 4609.4 2937.1 2381.3 \'
M.24.7

2.06 1.94 1.81
2.6~

Wells'

Hill................

I Brewer's Hill .··..·.··..... · 1
I

I Watkins, (1) .····..··.· ····I

'~

~rice's Point..............

76 28 46.90 76 ~ ~-61

w·.atkins, (1) .·.······.····. \ 38 L IO S8 Wells' mlI..... ...... ...... 258 35 55 Wel111' Hill ....···..··.. ····\ 345 05 58 ~T\~'11 ~oi\\t · ·· · ··· ··· · ·· ·· 9 ~l 09

2685.8 2177.5
\ 4960.5 1 l>W4.3 ,

1.67 1.35

Yrog l?o~d. mu·-·-···-....
.

\

41'

\

1>789.( '

/ ___ Ni_am_e_o_f_sta_ti_on_._ _ ,,_/_La_ti_tu_d_e_._
0
I II

1

[ 1

Longitude.
Q
f I/

Azimuth.
C
I II

(_ _ _ _ T_o_s_ta_ti_·on__ _ _ _ ,(_Bac_k_aznn_·_ut_h_. Distance.

Distance. Distance.
Yards. 3876.4 5157.3
Mills. 2.20 2.93

I
0
I "

1

Beaumont............ ···· Ridout...... ······ ·· . ···· Thompson's

38 59 15.20 39 00 22.90 39 01 48.44 39 01 10.73 39 03 45.06

76 27 50.64 76 25 52.18 76 33 04.57 76 34 32.52 76 32 53.55

100 14 53 28 00 35 337 21 29 65 11 48 138 45 00 244 23 14 183 57 23 241 12 12. 56 05 35 4 13 04 34 30 57 354 14 55 255 23 09 343 37 50
l

Well's Hill................ Frog Pond Hill ..·.··..·....

280 13 21 207 59 37 187 21 56 245 IO 42 318 44 10 64 24 36
3 57 29 61 13 08

Metres. 3544.7 47HLO

Hackett's Point............ Taylor................ ···· Shop Hill ..·.·.·..·.·..·... A.i.squirh Hill ...·..····.·...
Shop Hill ..............·... Thompson's Hill ....··.··... Shop Hill .......····...··.. Thompson's Hill ..·........· Thompson's Hill ·......··... Brewer's Hill.··.·......··..
~Iiller's

2677.2 2784.4 2859.9 3487.4 33-20.3 2413.8 2591.5 3615.6 2830.8
2832.8

29-27.7 3044.9
3127 .5

1.66
1.73 1.78 2.17

Hm .·.··..·...

3813.7 3631.0 2639.7

Worthington ··············

2.06 1.50
1.61 2.25 1.76 1.77

Cooke's Bank ············.
Miller's Hill...···.··..··.. :Mount Pleasant ············ South Rirer. Hol'Se-tihoe Point...... . · · · ·

2-36 04 38 184 12 58 214 30 15 174 15 0-2 75 25 04 163 38 08

2834.0 3953.9
3095.7 3097.7 4981.2 2676.5

39 03 04.10 ! 76 31 57.89 39 0-2

26.871

76 35 01.21

Hill ......·.·...·...

'Vorthingron ··.·....··.···.

4555.0 2447.5

2.83
1.52

38 50 20. 72 38 53 07 .62 38 54 39-46

76 28 54 .22 76 29 01.33

201 20 00 263 56 23 23"2 30 2"2 358 05 3-2

Thomas' Point.......... . · . . Bloody Point....... · . . . . . . .

21 21 17 84 00 24 52 31 43 178 05 36 107 12 17 210 43 00

8090.0 9323.3 "39'25.2 5149.3 1498.6
3'l9·LO

8847 .0 10195.7 4292.6 5631.1
1633.8

5.03 5.79 2.44 3.20 0.93 2.05

Sanders' Point .···········.

I Thomas' Poin~_'. ........... .
j Thomas' Point. ····.······.. , Sanders' Point ··.·.········.

j Horse-shoePumt .····.·····.

lishing Creek .···········.

I

76 27 51.49

I 287 11 40 30 43 44

3602.2

United States Coast Sun:ey.-Geographical
Name of station.

Po~tion$.

Section IIL-Ohesapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketclt C.

I

Latitude.
0
I
.N

Llngitude.
Of#

I

Azimuth.

/ Back azimuth. / Distance. \ Distance. , Distance.
0 , ,,

---~-

0'"
348 43 22 261 04 32

Turkey Point-----··--- ____ \ 38M28.37 Hill's Point ____ ._. --- - - --- ·

16 29 21.94
76 29 44.30 76 30 14.01
16 30 39.03

1 38 55 21.32

I

Sanders' Point----··-··---·· Fishing Creek ...····. -----Fishing Creek._ .. ____ -- _-- . Turkey Point ___ -- ·.. -·- ---· Turkey Point ..... ···-··-·-· Hill's Point ·· ·--····--·····
Hill's Point .·· __ .· --- ··· __ . Deep Point ... -- - .·· - -·· -...

168 43 35 81 05 29 115 25 14 161 44 37
135. 08 13 62 30 03

.'Ifetres · 2538.8 2-305.6

1

Yards. 2776.4 2412.0

Miks. 1.58 1.37

295 24 03 341 44 23
315 07 40
242 29 44

3008.4 1719.3 1775.1 806.8 1610.9 1431.8 2126.2 1031.3 2079.0 1513.2

3289.9 1880.2 1944.5 882.3 1,757.1 1565.8 23'>...5.2 1127.81 2-273.5

1.87 1.07

Deep Point ····· ----·-·-···, 38 55 09.24 Switcher's Point __ _.________ Brewer's Point .········ --··

I 38 55 51.36
"' 55 53-« i

Lil 0.50 LOO 0.87
L32 0.64

I
I

305 05 50 33b 07 05 309 52 0-2 273 33 33

125 06 24
155 07 20
129 52 45 93 34 20 137 21 15 165 28 58

76 31 21. 77

Deep Point .. ___ -··-·. ____ ·. Smt-0her's Point- .·. __ ··--·· Switcher's Point ..· __ .. _. - - . Brewer's Point.···- ---· --·· Brewer's Point. -·.. _.· _ - - - .

Ferry....·... -··-·-···---·
'Gingawill Creek ·· ---- ······
Lee ······ -----···---·---·

38 56 40.951 76 31 37 .52 I 317 20 37 345 28 48

1654.8
2846.0 1489.6 2073.7 871.9

L29 0_94 1.62 0.84
Ll6 0.50

co.

38 56 59.67
38 56 45.08 38 57 17.34
~

I

76 32 28-76 76 32 56.10 76 33 15.93
76 33 3Ul6

321 41 21 295 04 29 273 50 35 235 38 13 295 37 08 334 21 18

141 42 04
115 05 0-2

Ferry---···--··--··-···--·Ferry·--·-·----···----·---Gingawill Creek .. -·· - .. - - - - . Gingawill Creek_ .·· __ .··· _- . Lee ....· _____ --··.........

2602.5 1362.1
1896.31 797.3 1259.6 1103.4
\

93 51 24 55 38 30 115 37 38 154 21 31
~:JO 118. 04 31 2
2j.

Tucker'sPoint---···-··--··
Rolland's Point------·----°B<>"'j~ .. 1'<>'mt······ ---- ----

1377.5 1206.7

0.78 0.69
0.60

... " "-"'\,. " ..'"'

56 59.97

Lee.--- .·.·.. ----· --·· ---Tueker'11 "Po\nt_ ·.·· ____ ·· - _.
Tue\<.e-.:' .. 1'<>\ut ··· ___ ----··· "H..<>'-'=.~ .. 1'<>'m'<..·-···- -· ··--

975.8 ~ 1067 .1 658.7 720.3
'74.7 .'3

o.u
IL.\7

8'3 '3<. Z1
"lA"\. '3'3 \Y1

'<>77 .'<>

. 1:.'3L'5

8\.7 .2

IL'36

NJUIJIJ of station.

I

Latitude.
0

, ,,

I

Longitude.
0

, ,,

I

Azimuth.
0

I

To tstatlon-

(_,. ,....,, I,_"
o ' Ill 53 42 67 49 I8
I2"2 55 50 I44 53 38 12I I2 45 60 09 I9 I23 27 45 98 43 11
Metres. 797.l 410.8

t

nw- ( ""'-·
Yards. I 871.7 494.31

, ,,
Holland's Point. ·····.······ Boyd's Point ··· -- ·.········· Boyd'sPoint ·····.··.······· Warehouse .··.···········.· Warehouse ..·········.··.··. Fox: Den ..················. Gral"elly Point .·····.·····.· Fox Den .··.·.······.·····.

Warehouae.·.············· Fox Den ·················· Gral'"elly Point ··········· - :Beard's Point .············· Weedon ················· Old Woman Point ·········· Nicholson ················· Wood-landing ············.
Wut Rittr.

38 57 09.60 38 57 33.5I 38 57 26.83 38 57 37.84 38 57 44.70 38 57 45.70 38 57 43.50 38 58 I6.29

76 34 0'2.58 76 34 24.11 76 34 39.0I 76 35 00.35 76 34 49.39 76 35 19.36 76 35 29.83
!

29I 53 23 247 49 08 30-2 55 27 324 53 24 30I 12 22 240 09 IO 303 27 3I 278 42 48 335 36 42 51 I8 38 297 53 43 272 26 36 283 49 36 254 58 I6

I

Mila. 0.50 0.26

I070.6 900.9 I025.3 4I3.5 6I5.9 882.71 605.0 33.S.2 5I7.7 72iU 730.6 260.71 1053.9 1091.8
I I

1170.8 i 985.2 I 1121.3 I 452.2 / 673.5 I 965.3 ! 661.6 ! 369.9 i 566.2 I 789.7 799.0 285.I 1152.5 1194.0
I

0.67 0.56 0.63 0.25 0.38 0.55 0.38 0.21
Q.32

I

Gra>elly Point .············ · 1 I55 36 49 Beard's Point ..·· -- - -- ······ 231 I8 31 Beard's Point ...······.· Weedon ·.····· ---·--·-----j Beard's Point ..····. ---- ··. Old Woman Point ..···· - ----1

I
i

----1

117 53 54 92 26 55 103 49 54 74 58 23

0.45 0.45 O.I6 0.66 0.68

-I

76 35 42.2I i 343 33 55 329 45 06

Nicholson..·..·.·.········ - . J I63 34 03 Old Woman Point .····..···· I49 45 i!O

Gowan ······ ·-·--- ···· ·---1 38 52 65.90

76,.

I
Cutts' Point ·············· -\ 38 5112.0I

I

10.421

! 355 19 51

230 28 15

Thomas' Point -- - - - - - - · · - - - · 1 502942 Horse-shoe ..···.····.··· --· i I75 20 01

76 29 33.11 j 189 4I 30 213 05 34

I

'fhomas' Point .·······.·····

Gowllll. .···.·········

······I

4320.8 4800.81 39-49.4 7106.8 I

4725.I 5250.0 3553.4 7771.8

2.68 2.98

9 4I 44 33 07 15

I

2.0'2 4.42

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
N~e of station.

Secti-On IIL-Chcsapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C;
Distance. \Distance.
I

!

Latitude.

j

Longitude.

Azimuth.
0
I If

-

IBack azimuth. IDistance.
0 '
II

1 -l1 -.4-2° 1 - - - - - - - - - - : \ --38~-5-2,-06-,,-_-94-l.1 -16°_3_0 5

.----~----~--

Dutcbm~'s Point------ --- -1
Cedar Pomt - · ___ - · _____ · _.
38 51 01.14 38 51 07 .28 38 52 09.251' 38 52 24 .151

226 03 42 328 56 50

Gowan ...····.····.··.···.· \ 46 04 23 Cutts' Point .·· -· .·...··· - · -1 148 57 16

·

I

Metres. 2175.3 1977.0

Yards. 2378.9 2162.0
2517.8 2610.5 3716.5
3-285.5

Mifrs. I.35

1.23 1.43 1.48 2.11 1.87 1.61 0.56

76 31 07 .59 76 31 53.94 76 30 51.90

261 37 29 211 47 49
267 31 48
332 14 13

Cutts' Point ..·· _.····.·.·.· I Dutchman's Point ..··..····· Cutts' Point ....·...···..·.. Dutchman's Point--··-·· ···. Cutts' Point. . _.. - .·.·.· - - · Dutebman's Point .·.···.··..

81 38 28 31 48 22 87 33 16 52 If> 15 13"2 54 17 94 37 12

230-2.4
23;:,/ .l

Maxcy .· _··· ···-···-··....

3398.5 3004.4

RhodeRh·er.·---···-·· ···.
:MARruol'T _·· __ ····· _ · __ · · ·
Poplar Is/Juul, Herrifl{! Bag.

!
j

312 53 27 274 36 49

2592.6 882.3

2835.2 964.9

76 36 16 Al . · · · · · · · · · · · · · . .······· _· · · . · · · · · · · · . · · · · . .· · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · · · · · . · · - · - . · · · . . ········

I
76

PoPLA.RlsLAN:o,(1) .······.· 1 38 45 25.66 Franklin's Point ...····· ·-·. 1 38 49 02.61 ;
1

I
i

~2 53.29 ···-·····--····----···-······-·····-······I····-··-······ .......... ·-···--·-·-····-···
231 58 34 201 0-2 56 South Base .··············. Thomas' Point...... · · · . · · . .

76 29 30.91 76 2-2 57.02

i
Poplarlsland,(2).----·-···i 38 46 23.23

-.

I

l
I

I

i

-I

52 03 29 21 04 35 339 05 57 297 18 27

14423.8 10655.3 15902.0 10699.6 10170.1 12465.4 5274.6 1\1890.7
?."\.'OIL7
~-'a

15773.4 11652.3 17390.0 10700.8 11121.7 13631.8
5768.l 14096.9
'M78.?. 0071.l.'2.

8.96 6.62

~~~ ~~ ~
193 5..5 47 255 10 58 349 48 49 'Zn. 00 '!'l
~-e.~ ~'!, ~~ ~~

Thomas' Point __ ···.·······. Franklin's Point.·· - ·.···· - ··

9.88 6.65

Holland'sPointNodh.·····. \ 38 43
"P&ea-

42.521. 76 3112.42 'sls\mil ············.. \38 46 ~.91 \ 76 3151.01 .... \
~ 4.\\ "\.~.<\.?.\"I\\

FTanklin'sPoint ···-···-----\13 56 51 Poplar Island, (1) ...···. :··75 16 10
B.ol"\and'sl'ointNorth·...···. "Po~lar 1.shnd, \\1) ···· __ ··· _.
. "H.<:>"\."\.~ .. °?<>'u>.'-°l'!\<>°rt);}.........

6.32
7.75
3.'28

169 4913 91. O<. W
'l'O ~ ~ "\."£. '2:3 'i>4.

8.01

""WeeUU.-Wm.i.\m'i\\. ··········

"M. \)\)."\.\\

""Ptw.ti: .. 1.... U.."-"-·--······-··--·

Name of station.

Latitnde.
o

( Longitnde.

(

Azimuth.

(

To station-

Back azimuth. / Distance.

Distance. /Distance.
Miks.

I

' 0

"

i--o--,-,,-1-----------1---0--,-,,--.Mi-et_r_es-.-t--l'i-ard-s.-1
308 47 55 2"26 14 08 19'2 09 17 164 46 40 19'2 07 34 248 40 40

Fairha>en

·----- ..................... .

38 45 12.64

i 76 33 35.42 i

IHolland's Point North · . · · · . · Paca's Island...............
!'

128 49 24 46 15 13 12 09 53 344 46 11 12 08 38 68 45 52

4432. 7 3489.6 6666.9 4253.3 11644.3 12932.3

4847 .5 3816.1 7290.7 4651.3 12733.9 14142.4

I I

2.76 2.17 4.14 2.64 7 .24 8.04

Owens' WmdmilL ·········· '' 38 42 59.531 76 32 49.15 I

Paca's Island............... Fairha>en ...···.. -··· .. .·..

Holland'sPoint .··..·.···.. · 38 42 53.42

76 3112.30

I Point .··... ..··.. IFranklin's Poplar Island, (1). .·. ·· . . ...
\ Thomas' Point. .···....·.... i Poplar Island, ( 1) .··· _······

Eastern Bay.
Wade's Point..............
Poplar Island, (3)...... ....

·
303 45 04 2"23 53 43
50 44 11
333 41 17

00

38 49 37.78
38 46 50.21

76 17 43.01
76 22 04.a 76 19 45.77 76 19 56.58 76 17 14.77 7616 30.16 76 14 50.74

123 50 49 43 56 57 230 41 27 153 44 18 207 50 54 97 27 35 20 51 09 312 30 45 4 43 46 36 28 00 13 17 41 48 00 35 80 58 07 144 04 19

159'27.1 10793.8 8158.6 15643.3

17417.4 11803.8 89'22.0 17107.0 6932.3 3698.7 9501.7 4779.7

9.90 6.71 5.07 9.72 3.94 2.10
5.40 2.72

I Th Wade's Point. ..··.......... 'pomt · ..···...····.. I
I

o~as

··

~

Lowe's Point..............
Long Point, (Kent Island)... Turkey Point.............. Bodkinlsland ..···....·....
Tilghman's Point ·.···.···· -

38 46 35.99
38 51 13.56 38 54 04.79

! Wade's Point .·····..·····.. i Poplar Island, (3) ...·····... ·
I

27 52 11 277 26 08

6339.1
3382.2
8688.7 4370.7

'. Poplar Island, (3). ... . . . . ·.. i Wade's Point .······.·. - · · . .

200 49 49 132 32 09 184 43 28 216 26 19 193 16 55 227 58 25 260 54 55 3'24 03 17

'Wade's Point............... Long Point, (Kent Island).... Wade's Point............... L-0ng Point, (Kent Islnnd).... Long Point, (Kent !Bland).... Bodkin Island ··· - · · · · · · · · · ·

8'2&2.1 6563.2 7639.8 669;5.9 7466.3 4082.8

9035.2 7177.3
83.54.7 7322.4 8164.9 4464.8

5.13 4.08 4.75 4.16 4.64 2.54

38 53 38.89
38 51 51.69

United States Coast Surrey.-Geographical Positions.

Section !IL-Chesapeake Bay.

Sketch 0.

___ N_am_e_o_f_s_ta_n_on_._ _ --L-at_it_u_d_e.-!-Lo_n_gi_·m_d_e_.___ A_zi_·m_u_th_._ _ _ _ _ T_o_st_a_ti_o_n_ _ _ _ / Back azimuth. / Dist11nce. \_n_is_'tan_c_e_. _Di_·_st_11_nc_e_.

o
Parson's Point ····.····.... Parson's Island .··..·.···..

' "

38 55 19.34 1 76 15 08.31 1 38 54 01.85 38 55 53.50

I

1

o

' "

I

I

o

' "

32 29 34 356 12 58

I .

I

i

Bodkin Isl11nd .·.··...···.·.. i 212 28 43 Tilghm11n's Point ..···. 176 13 09 Tilghman's Point............

······I

I

o

'

"

Metre11.
3671.6 6416.8 4014.6 2401.1 7112.4 8187.0

J

l'atds. 4015.2 7017.2
4390.3 26'i5.8

Miles.
2.28
3.98

76 J.1 54.95 76 12 30.40

358 33 OS 72 51 18 54 19 18 24 24 30

I Bodkin Island...... . · . . . . · . .
Bodkin Island ...·.··..·..·.. Tilghman' s Point .···..·····.

178 33 11 252 50 18 234 16 47 204 23 02

2.49 1.49 4.42

Bryan .····.·····..·····..
Wye Ril:tr.
Bennett's Point .··········. Mouth of "'ye Rh-er ·····.··

7777.9 8953.1

5.09

38 51 47.82 38 50 37.68

76 11 47 .88 76 11 35.00 76 09 43.44 76
o~

116 44 49 91 34 0-2 115 49 33 171 49 59 103 50 15 62 06 23 41 54 32 16 18 34
58 34 31 114 23 32

Bodkin Island ·····....··.·. 1 296 41 52 Tilghman's Point...... · · · · · . 271 32 07 Tilghman's Point .···...····. , 295 47 30 . Bennett's Point....... · · · · · . 351 49 51
1

7616.9 4409.7 5242.0 2185.0 3089.6 3043.9

s:J.?9.6 482'2.3

4.73 2.74 3.26 1.36

5732.5
2389.5

E. Lloyd .····.·····.····· ·

I I

38 51 23.88 38 52 39.61

I

I Bennett's i:oint ...····.·.···. 1

283 48 57 Mouth on\ ye Rrrnr .··..··.. i 242 05 13

3379.0 3328.7
5523.2 2660.5 318-1.3 216'2.4 1373.7 1167.4
&.0.6
1~.6,

1.92 1.89
3.14 1.51
1.81 1.21 0.78 0.00
O.o\8 ().i9

M. Lloyd ···.··.··········.

15.10

Mouth of Wye River .·....··. ! 2"21 53 04 E. Lloyd .··.··.··········· - I 196 18 16

5050.6 2432.8
2911.8 1977.4 1256.2 1067 .5
7TL8 'l'Zn ."l.

White Honse, (1) ······.·.· \ 38 52 13.14 White Honse, (2)...... ··· .
'W'nite Rour.e,

76 08 00.38 76 08 23.15 \
7G

E. Lloyd ..····..··········.
M. Lloyd...... . . · · · . . · · · · · .

i .

238 33 26 294 22 '!5

(.~)

38 52 42.83

········· \

~~

85 28 31
3"49 Q4. 00
&> W 'M U"\. ~ 'M.

'Zl -""'

~ ~-'¥!\

M. Lloyd...... . . · · · . · · · · · · . 265 27 58 White Rour.e, ( 1) .··.··.··.. \ 149 04. 14.
Wbite Rouse, <..1-) . · · . · · . . . . . V.'m.t.<> Rouse,(..'1.) ··-- ·······
~

1

()9 08

2.9"1. ~ 04.

Nllllleofstation.

(

Latitude.
0
I U

(

Longitude.

f.

.Azimuth.
0 , ,,

(

To station-

(Back iu:imuth. ; DistllJlce. / Distance. /Distance.

1-----li
Paca .····...·····.·.··...
Daniel Lloyd, (1) ·..······. Daniel Lloyd, (2) ·······... 38 52 59.18 38 52 26.00 38 52 37 .65

i
i
!
i

0

'

u

76 06 47.34 76 06 44.01

I

77 43 53 49 03 15
I

·

White House, (2) ······.·... White House, (3). ·· · ··· ····

I

_

0

. :
"

'

257 42 53 2"29 0-2 45

I
:

9'2 21 43 175 30 43

I

\ WbiteHouse,(3) ...·..····· 1 272 2111 Paca . . . . . · · · · . ·· · · · · · . · · · . 355 30 41
I Paca . . . . . . . · . . . · · . . . · · · · . . DanielLloyd,(1)...... ····.. 320 40 40 23'2 12 39

I
I'

.Metres. 2363.0 1485.7 1203.5 HJ-26.4 858.2 586.5 1308.2 1152.8

Y~rds.

2584.l 1624.7 1316.1 112'2.4 938.5 641.4 1430.6 1260.7

I
I

i

i

.Miles. 1.47 0.92 0.75 0.64 0.53 0.37

I 76 06 24.78 I

140 40 54 52 12 51 117 50 47 69 0-2 42 26 01 39 48 03 29

Daniel Lloyd, (3) .·········. : 38 52 39.37 Wye Landing .·········.··.
· &.

i
i

76 05 59.35 76 05 41.36

I

Paca ·····......····.·····. 297 50 17 Daniel Lloyd, (1) .·········· · 1 249 02 14 Daniel Lloyd, (3) .····.·····. Daniel Lloyd, (2) .·····.····

0.81
0.72 0.61 0.87

.
.

7'J1.

38 53 08.16

!

Mw..,r,

Ri<w.

I
38 48 08.12 ' 76 11 43.53 38 48 21-65 76 12 29.42 76 12 40.62
I

·I
I

206 01 48 2"28 03 0-2

987.7
1406.9

1080.l 1538.5

~

Fw.rnew .··········.····.. Deep Water Point.........

146 47 46

182 33 29
197 2'2 41 290 38 15 23.'> 41 57 338 42 00 176 52 56 159 38 02 143 45 56 126 54 08

Tilghman's Point .··········. Mouth of Wye .·····.·.··.·.
M~u~ofWye..............

3"26 45 48

2 33 34
.~~;

8240.2 4615.9 4394.9 1183.2 1915.6 3790.9 3011.0 3652.l 6810.8 3446.5

901L2 5047:8 4806.1 1294.0
2094.9 4145.6

5.12 2.87

FllITVlew .· · . · . . . · . . · . . · · · · .
M~ut~ of Wye .····.···.··.. Faimew .···...·······..··.

17 2315 110 38 44 55 42 38 158 42 36 356 52 52 339 37 29

2.73 0.73
1.19 2.36

Herring Island .·.··.·····.. I 38 50 02.67

Lhtl· N"""

p""' ......... ·

I
I

'

38 46 30.61 I 76 11 36.73 38 45 23.52 76 09 42.54

Fairriew ........·····...... Deep Water Point .····.·...

Loockerman .········.···. -1

D_eep ~ater P?int ......··· · j' 323 44 11 L1ttle :Neck Pomt ..·······.· 306 52 56

1 I

I

3',!92.7

1.87
2.27

3993.8

7447.9
3769.0

4.23 2.14

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpltical Positio11s.
Name of stiltion. Long Point, (2) .·.····.···.
Sandy Point .····....·.·.
I

Section

IIL-Gl1e~~apeake

Bay. Sketclt C.
i

Latitude.

I

Longitude.
0

I

.Azimuth.
0

I

j

To station-

----a , ,, I------:------, ' " ' "
I

38 46 08.63

I 76 10 05.04
!

io1 cr2 28 338 40 09

IBack azimuth. I Distance. i ~Ietres.
J

Distance. Distance.
Yards.

I

0

'

"

Little Neck Point ...·...... · 1 287 01 31 Loockennan................ 158 40 24

2314.7 1493.2 2799. 2 2185.4 1613.2 932.6 1083.0 18SL2 1784.2 949.4 3355.7 1804.6

2531.3 163'2.9
3061.1 2389.9
17~2

Miles. 1.44 0.93

I

38 46 42.59 38 46 14.11 38 46 59.40 38 47 30.11 38 47 43.94

76 08 45.57 76 08 58.58 76 08 00.11 I
I

29 26 04 61 2"2 51

Loockennan ............... · I 209 25 28 Long Point, (2) .·.··....·... i 241 2"2 01
Long Point, (2) ...·...·.··.. [ 263 59 14 Sandy Point ..··..·...····.. , 19 40 37 Sandy Point................ Pen-y Hall................. 241 24 45 2":2-2 10 15

1.74 1.36 1.00 0.58

Perry Hall ....·.·.···. Bartlett .··············· - -· Lowndes.................. Goldsborough..............
Chaapt.ake Bay, Choptank Ricer.
BLA.Ja: ······ · · - · · · · · · - · · ··.

i 83 59 56
61 25 IO 42 10 48 34 48 OS 4 04 03 55 42 03 76 20 26

I 199 40 29

1019.9 1184.3 2060.5 1951.2 1038.2 3669.7 1973.5

76 OS 03.381

I
1

I

0.67 1.17
1.11 0.59

I
i'

Sandv Point................ 214 47 41 Bartlett .·....···..·.···.·. -1 184 04 01

i
!
i

1

76 06 50.71 j

i

Sand> Point. .·.....··.. 235 40 51 Lowndes ·····..·.········· ., 256 19 40

····1
I

2.09 1.12

38 39 41.88 38 34 04.14

i I

I
I

i

i

1,.

76 31 55.79 '········ ··-··· ··-········· ······ .····.··.. 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' · · · · · · . . . .

I

I

······ .......·....·

HILL'sPoL"iT .....·····....

i
\

:618 37.26 :-···········-·

····························1··············/·········· ·········· ·········
lllake ......·...· - ...·.·...·

::~.~-~~~~---·_·_·_·_·_·_·_·.,
\
Sharpe's 'Island,

: : ::~: \:: : :~: \--~~-~~-~~--- -~~.~-~~~~~--------~--~--~~---_-_-_._1\··;~-~~-~---1\·-~~~~--~·\-~~~--~ \-----~--~
\881220 2680507
2.()0

16741.l

183117.6

10.4.0
13.&> .\.G<\

~l) ·······.\

?S 'SI
\

~ .\n

'1\l 2.l.

~-~

2.1) U <>-<>, ~ 'a'3 l.)l.

Wl\.,on. .····. .··.·· ··.· ··.. ~"' ~o\n.t. ······ ······ ····

U

lA\l Mo.\\) .

~

'2197~.8

'1.\6\)..'.l

~41'128.6

.8165 . .\

Name of station.

! I
I
'

Latitude.
o /
u

r

Longitude.
a , "

(

Azimuth.
0 ,

(
)

To station-

(Back azimuth. {Distance. [Distance. ())isrance.
0
1 "

u

Cooke's Point. ·.····..··... r 38 37 59. 53
~

76 17 21. 04 76 15 41.52 76 19 12.83

80 24 28

~

14 15 50

I S~a~e's.Island, (1)..........

Metres.
~03.7

Yards.

'

Nilu.

( Hills Pomt. ... · ... · .·· . ·.·.
/ Tilghman's Island........... I Cooke'sPoint....... ·.·. ....

260 21 5.5 194 15 03
243 04 58 198 34 :Jo
163 46 21 112 35 18 219 24 58 2&2 03 47

1488.2

6565.5 8188.9
8360.2 8255.5
10567.0
~235.9

3.7_3 4.G5
4.75 4.69
I

Nelson's Point. ·····.·····. \ 38 41 51.61

63 07 54
18 35 3"2

7644.9 7549.1
9662.8

Harris Creek .........·.··. 1 38 43 00.43
Royston's Island..··..···... i 38 41 31.09

I
343 45 11 29"2 33 00

I
I

/ Cooke's Point............... ) Nelson's Poiat..............
'j Cooke's Point..... . · . · . . . · . . Nelson's Point..............

6.01
3.44

5528.5 8445.6
30"kL4

6045.8
3307.5

Skinner ..·····...····.·..

-I

I 38 43 55.69
I
I

76 13 39.13
76 15 13.40 76 13 33.90 76 13 53.2 76 11 44.28

i
I

39 27 17
l!J-2 05 04 10 04 11
332 55 59 21il 53 48 53 45 48

I

5.23 1.88
2.42 3.11

\ Nelson's Point...... . . . . . . · . I Royston's Island .......... ., .

190 03 53 152 56 58
208 52 28 233 44 46 272 09 53 340 28 40

3885.1 5006.5
6381.4 29i9.4 5015.J 7794.1
I

1249.3
5472i.0

Hamblet-On's Isltlnd ...····.. ) 38 44 52.2 Todd's Point..····.······

..I

38 37 53.34

9-2 12 03 160 29 48 118 35 19 36 33 44 93 04 26 150 16 42 87 50 04 356 44 40
129 01 05

I Nelson's Point.............. I Skinner · . . · . . . · . . . · · . · · . . · . !

6978.5 3258.2 5484.4 8523.4 7138.8 5751.2

3.97 1.85
3.11 4.81

: Cooke's Point . . . . · · . · . · . . .. Nelson's Point.............. Xelson's Point. ·····.······. Todd's Point ...······.·...· ·
Todd'~

Benoni's Point ····.··..···.

38 40 10.36
38 37 43.44

298 32 50 216 3"2 23 273 01 59 330 15 36
267 49 04 176 44 46 308 59 08 246 29 33

6528.0

4.06
3.27

5259.1 5728.7
5216.7 2325.5 4625.6

Castle Ha>en ..·.····.····.

76 09 57.28
76 10 08.14

I'oint ..·.···········. Benoni's Point ·.·..···.·.··.

6264.8
5704.8 2.543.1 5058.4

3.56

3.24
1.45 2.87 3.63
I.~

Bachelor's Point..···..····. 1 38 40 13.22

Benoni's Point. .·.·······.·. Castle Haven ····.···.···.·. Benoni's Point ·············· Castle Haven .··············

Glory Point ··············· \ 38 88 11.03

76 08 36.37

66 30 24

5846.0 2133.7

6393.0 2333.4

~
~

~

United States Coast SurtY:y.-Gcograpltical Positions.
?fame of station.

Section IIL-Chesapcakc Bay.
To station-

Skctclt G.

Latitude.
Q
I

I
1

Longitude.
o ' "

I
1

Azim~/
o '
11

i

Back azimuth.1_D_is_ta_n_ce_._ _D_i_stan_c_.e_. \ Distance.
1
Q / "

I/

Howell's Point. ····. - .. - ·.. Horn Point ...·.··.·····...

38 36 43.06
38 3618.49 38 35 31.30

76 06 27.08
76 OS 07.68 76 05 00.27 76 03 04.10 I 76 02 24.66 76 01 20.31 76 05 58-48

129 49 59 110 07 49
134 39 51 252 42 16 136 30 10 107 48 43
!

I Benoni's Point.. ·.····..··. -\ : ca~tlc H:rren ...·.·. ---- ----1 I Cnstle !f1n-<:11·--------------I
i
J

_

II

I.

309 46 41 290 05 37 314 38 42 72 43 19 /

Metres. 9984.2 5414.3 3726.6 2548.9 3050.9 4762.3 4983.3 3124.8 5W5.3 4005.7 5540.l 24G5.2

Yards. 10918-4 59-20.9 4075.3 2787.4 3336.4 5207.9 5449.7 3417.3 5S83.1 5364.7 6058.5 2695.9

Miles. 6.20 3.37

Howdl'sPomt ·.··..·.·.··· -1

2.3-2 1.59

Hambrook's Point ··········
Porpoise Creek ·.·. --------

! Howell's.Point ..·.···.·····. \
!.

316 29 16 I Hom Pornt. -- .··· ---- .···.. . 2b7 46 46
Zin 46 45 244 05 20

LOO 2.96
3.10 J.94

38 36 15.58 38 33 39.50 38 34 41.48 38 35 06.27
383649.55

Tate's Bank .··. :·--- .···. _
Chancellor's Point ···· ------

I

99 48 51 64 CG 32 13-2 28 58 168 47 21 106 07 10 39 11 36
166 57.09 125 2i3 41 854115 124301

Sand Hill....··..·... ---·-Reid .······ -·-·····--·----

. I
1

I

Hmrdl's Point.............. ! Humbrook's Point ..... --···· 1 I . ! Hambrook'sPoint. .....··... / l Po11wiseCreek .....···.···. :

.

312 27 21 348 46 56 286 04 53 219 10 56
346 56 51 305 27 20 2654007 19-24247

ITate's Bank.: ·····. ----....
I

I I-fambrook'sPoint...........

I

3.17 3.05 3.44 1.53 1.91 2.38 1.65 1.54

~

0 0

i Hom Point. .....·......·...
\Howell'sPoinL .··· : .·····. jHambrook'sPoint. ····.····.

Howell's Point. ..··········.

3063.5 3838.1
2651.7 2473.2

3350.2 I 4197.31

760437.781 75 59 26-41

I

2899.8 270-L6 5217.2 3017 .8 \

Oystershell Point .······ _··.

38 3145.53

i
\

64 45 34 87 25 05

J

w aggll.IlUl.11 ··· -- ·· - ····· - - -

38 'M 13.W \76 00 O\U,2 \
'1'&

72 02 11\'i }9 M
<>'.!.

~

Tate's Bftnk----------------1 244 43 43 , Chancellor"sPoint-----------1 2ti7 23 54

I
\

\ T,ate's Ban:1'---·; ---- ...· ----\ 25'! \Chancellor BPomt. ·.··.. ____ , 29\'i 18 ;)()

O~ ~

4770.8 2759.6 j M4L7 \ 1914.3
'.!.9'5LG
'.l.1'.l9.?.

2.97 L72

~"'"~"'='------··---· .... ~ '& .i,.I;).~

~ "-'.\-~\

\.";\ m ~

'-~ "-'i\ \c"""""'''"''"'~o\n.\ ...........\ '.!.'.'.'.!. 09 .i,.9 "-'1»¥,'b~----- ···· ____ ····_\ \.'<!?. m 12.

~i~~l\
~27.8

2.14 1-19
1.83
1.70

':!.91:\4..7 \

1
___ N._1UD __e_or_st_1U1_··o_n_._ _ __La._u_·ro-·d_e_._ / 1
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0 ,,

l_Azim_·_u_th_._ _____ T:_o_s_ta_n_on__ _ _ _ Back azimuth.
1
0 ( ,,

1

1
1
O
I ''

f

1

Distance.
Metres. 2345.6 19l!9.9

Distance. (Distance.
Yards. 2565.1 2lb'7 .0

t

Stewart ·······.·· -- ·. -- · - . Warwick ·················. Jamaica Point ..····.......

38 35 41.93 38 36 53.77 38 36 36.29

t
I

75 58 21.35 75 58 09.42 75 58 53.34 75 59 16.21

42 09

~9

88 28 43 45 15 19

Oyetershell Point ..·.·..···. Goorn Point ·...············
Goose Point ·...···..··..·.. ;;;. , ..,,ew::tr. ······.············

2"J2 ()9 08

263 27 51 2-25 14 20
187 26 00
63 06 01 215 19 06

Miles. 1.46 1.24

!

7 25 07 243 ()5 34
35 19 38

...

3-221.8 2-233.7 1191.3 2119.5
273-2.6

3523.3 2442.7 13G2.8 2317.9

2.00 1.39

\Yanrick .·.···.··......··.. Goose Point ..···.·...·.···.
Stewart .·..·.·..···.·..·.. ·warnick .··..·····.·..··...

0.74
1.32

Case ······.···········..· 1 \ 38 37 35.C9
Small ·····················

33fl IO 3S 308 15 21
354 40 25

159 11 13 128 16 03 174 40 31 2-24 23 26 259 41 34 314 24 59 244 52 32 212 43 28

2057.2 2G80.9
1952.9

2988.31
2-249.7 2931.81' 2135.6 2616.3

I

38 38 20.35 ; 75 58 19.72

Cabin Creek .··········

·-·-1
!

1
38 37 48.97

I
75 57 38.88 38 38 55.37 ; 75 56 44.48 38 40 11.35 : 75 56 26.48
I

44 24 02 79 42 3;') 134 25 24
64 53 31 32 44 02

Warnick ..·.....····..··..· Case ...····.·....·..·.···. Case ..·.......·····.··.··.. Small ·..··..·.··...·.·.·..
Small .........·.·······... Cabin Creek .......................... ..

I

1.70 1.28 1.67 1.21 1.49

2.'392.4 13".2.6
2543.6 2433.7 4382.7 2302.6 2091.8 1129.3 1837.3
1!137.2

1512.7
2781.6 2ooL4

0.86

.

~

Jiwob ················· -···

Hunting Creek ···········

-I

I

i

l

1.58 1.51 2.72 L4d
1.30 0.70

38 40 2'2 10 31 39 342 13 43 251 54 51 3'29 24 51 4 06 12 302 00 48 272 29 45

Small ..··.··..·.···.····.. Jacob ............. __ .. _.. ................ _.. .. Jacob ...···.....·.···.···. Hunting Creek .....·······..
Hunting Creek ............ - ...... ---Da111es .. ....................................... ..

218 39 12
190 31 28

479-2.9 I

I 38 39 59.97 I 38 41 0',,2.64 :~::::::::::·.·_:::I 38 41 05.07
.Barnes ···················.

2605.6
2287.5 1235.0 2009.2 211E.5 3416.5 1676.0

75 57 10.89
75 57 05.16 75 58 16.08

162 13 59 71 55 18 149 25 15 18-! 06 09 122 01 56 9-2 30 29

Hunting Creek .········· Goldsborough ·.·········.···

····I

1.14 1.20 1.94 1.06

3124.l 1715.5

United Btate3 do~t Suri~ey;-Geof5'/'aphical Positions.
Name of station. Frazer ·.·············· -··Lloyd .······.········· --·:Malone - · · · · · · ·· · ·· · ··· · · ·

Section III.-Ohesa11~ake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.

Latitude.
0 ,

Longitu o.
0 , ,.

. d

I \ .Azimuth.

\Back azimuth. , Distance. \ Distance. Distance ·
0 ' "

38 42 13.27
39 42 02.67
38 43 ()4.58

75 58 58.07 75 59 38.05 76 00 28.66 75 59 47.86

I 308 35 27
0
I

II

334 14 34
311 52

Goldsborough .···········.·· Ross .. _...... __ .......· _.. . Ross ·.······· _.··· __ .······ l<'razer ..... ·····- .····.···. Frazer ..·..······ ·······--· Lloyd .· - - - .··· _. - .····. _... Lloyd .···.. ··-·-·---· .····· Malone __ .·· - _.···· - .... _·· Malone·----- ······ --·---·Hog Island---·--- .····· -·-Hog Island- - - - · , - .. · - · ·· · - · Stevens ....···········.····

128 36 .37 154 ]5 00 1315319 71 18 22
125 52 24 147 22 15

Mftres. 2..mo.s 2334.9

I
1·

Yards. 2123.8 2553..4 1115.3 2953.l 2479.0 3749.5 1973.4
2800 .. 9 1301.6
2909 .. 3

Milt.s.

1.55 1.45

28

251 17 57

2660 1019.9

.41:i
i

1.65 0.63

305 51 27 327 21 43

2-2G6.9 I
3428.7 I

2700-4 I

1.68 1.41
2.13 1.12

Rog Island -··············

-1 I

38 43 53-60

356 02 36
33 06 52 8 26 14 329 10 21

176 02 43
213 06 27

1804 .5

i

.

00

Ste>ens...................

38 44 25.75' 76 00 13.11 38 44 51.03 75 59 13.19

188 26 04
149 10 36
~5 18 38 242 38 58

2561.21
1190.2 i

I.59

0.74
1.2"2 1.01

Cook ······· ···· ....... ··.
Dover ············ ·-......

25 19 00
62 39 35 29 00 59 3-t3 33 33
28 54 15 9'2 48 19

1958.51 1629.2
2-i44.6 1266.3

38 45 ao.42
38 45 28.83 38 '!6 45.09

75 59 28.03
75 58 46.54

Cook ...... ,. ...... ,

Stevens . - · - ··· - ··· - - - ···· · ·
"! . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . " ....... ..

209 00 31 163 33 42
208 53 58

Willis....................
Xillgi>to'\\'ll. .......... - ·· · ···

Oook ····-- ·····. ---· ····.. Dover .. _.· -·- ..·· _· _.· __ ··.
I><.·Yer .................... ., .. '!: .. -= ... ~ ... ..,.

272 47
2'.~3

5:~

I 1331.4 I 1003.0 I
3197 .3 2777 .7 101'1.l
'Ml)\) J) ~1A-~

I

2141.8 1781.6
2454.6.

1.40
0.79
0 .. 83

i3S4.8 1456.0 1096.6 3496.5 3{)31 .6 1109.0
21n9 . 2
~~~-I!>

0.62

75 57 56.13

43 56 54

55 57

27 2'2 13

"''illis .·..· -····--·-· ,, ···.
Do·rnr ----- ······ ----·· ··.. Kii.l.gstovrn ··· _....... - · - ···

207 21 42

\'Mil

~7.5~~-2
1.74.

2414519

58 ~

0.63

'Km%..t.own ······ ··---· ---·-· ~<\""-"-". --- · ------ ---~---

~ 1.1) ';w,

'2A~ ~ \)'\

_

N1J111e of station.

.. (

La~tude.
38 46 57.80

I

_LJ~tude._
75 57 Q9.24

1 1 1 (, __ A.zim_·_u_th_.__ !__ _ _ _ -:c_o_sta_ti-'on.:::_ _ _ Back azimuth,/ Distance. /Distance. Distil.rice.

Clark ····· , ··· : ,,, ·······

l
1

--0-,----,.--l--o=--,-,"'"",....:-\

o /

11

o /

11

!/ Metres.

ri~ ~! ~

~~~:11~~:::::::::::::::::

2

~ ~:

W-mg's Landing ............ \ 38 47 14-49 . High Bank ................ ' 38 47 29.57 \

I 75 55 40.28 \
75 55 53.09

I
i

1

50 05 00 76 31 53 24 23 03 3'-JG 24 28

I

Sullirnn ······· ······ ·····. Clark . · · · · · . . · · · · · · . · · . . · . .

2 04 256 30

?0

u

~7

I

~~t~

I
i

Yards.

, Sullivan .................... J 204 2"2 49 Wing's Landing............. 146 24 30
1

li

~~9071,
"'"'

~~t~
1193 ._9 2414 2

Miles. 1.03 0.82

._1 1 6 1

I

0.68 1.37
0.80 0.35

1279.71 5.)8_3 j

1399.4 610.6

Third Haren Creek.

\ 76 10 12.98 76 10 48.47 76 09 21.20 76 09 24.50 76 01 48.20 44 56 59 3.56 51 06 339 JI 06 297 10 33 52 53 1-1 76 29 49 57 52 47 35-1 04 19 64 48 30 82 54 16 Benon!'s Point .............. Bachelor's Point ······.··· -

, 38 41 22.08 . Battee . · · · · · · .. · ·· . .. · .. . I 38 41 36.36 /
Tilghman ................. ! 38 41 52.79

Oxfurd ................... ·I

-II 176 51 09
224 56 lr2 159 11 28 117 10 55

3123_9 i 2126_2 / 2742_2 ! 963.9' 1569_2 2168-7 2395.7 7715.4 2483.4 2344.6 1590.5 1394.6 129"2. 7 1.28S.l
!

3416-3

2325.2 2998.8 1054.1 1716.0 2371.6 2619.9 8437.3 2715.8 2564.0 1739.3 1525.l 1413.7 1405.4

1.94 1.32 1-70 0.60 0.98 1.35 I.49 4.79 1.55 1.46

Bachelor's Point .......... - .1 \ Oxford ................... ..
1

I
I
,i_

Oxford ..................... 1 ; 2.32 52 42 Battee ..................... ! 256 28 55
[

Morling .................. I 38 42 17 .68 )

.

Battee ..................... I 237 51 55 : Tilghman ................... l 174 04 21
1

Eagle Point ...............

38 42 27 .09

244 47 32 ·, Tilghman .................. : Morling ................... · 1 262 53 16 Tilghman ................. .. Eagle Point ...... ··· ... Eagle Point .............. .. Mare's Neck .............. .

-l

I

Mare's Neck. .............

I

i

3S 42 35.80

76 08 44.85
76 08 08.17

33 31 38 281 05 57
333 05 3'-2 43 35 '.rl

····1

213 31 15 101 06 3'-2
158 05 44 223 :is 14

0.99 0.87

Hambleton ............ ·--·\ 38 43 05.99

o.so

0.81

Unitd States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.

Section IIL-Chesapeake Bay.
1

Sketch 0.

!
I
! I

Longituile.
0 ' "

I

Azimuth.
0 ' "

!
1'

To station~fare'sNeck

iI

0

Diamond Hall - ··---· .· --- . \ 38 43 33.0l

76 OS 25.75

14 39 37 23:2 59 28 10 40 51 3S 34 57 610326 18-1 41 OS 95 56 52 71 16 01

Long Point. ___ · _ . ____ ·· _. _j 38 44 03.991 7o 07 54.2:2
Dr. Clough. __ --- ------

I Hambleton .·· __ ···.·..·· _. -1152 59 39 I H:imbleton ................. 190 40 46
1

I~ack azimuth.1 Distance. \ Distance. \Distance. I J\Ietrcs. Yards. Miles. .···..····.··... 194 39 25 182:L3 19U3.9 1.13
0 ' "
1

935.l
1
1

102'2.6 1989.9 1335.9

0.58 Ll3 0.76 0.51 0.35 0.77 0.83

'

-·j
I

j
38 43 45.861 76 07 56.ll

i
1·

IDimno~d.Hall ..···..·..·..·. Long lomt. .·..·...........
/Di-.
Clough.................

D1:unondHalL ..·..····..·..

218 34 38

1819.6 1221.6 818.2 560.8 1232.4 13!2.8 1971.4 117.1.4 1110.9 571.l 13'.l2.l 13"23.0 9-39.0 4il8.8 1289.0 1535.8

1
1

1

241 03 08 4 41 09 275 56 20 251 15 28 !t4l 5311 205 54 32 177 08 rn 95 20 51 172 3-2 41 197 20 04 214 09 09 342 20 20

804.8 613.2
1347.7 146.:3.5 2155.9 122-1.3 1214.9 624.5 1456.8 1452.3 1059.7 534.6 1409.7 1679.5

Haprnod .· - - - ·.· -- -·: .· · - -1 38 43 59.85 Cedar Point ..··········.··
1

I 38 44 34.ll I

76 07 03.46 76 06 42.21 76 07 05.76

I Long Point ............·.·.. ! I Long Point ..···.·.·.··.··..
Haywood ...··...·.·.. ----··
II

61 53 57 25 54 46
357 0818 275 20 36

1.23 0.73
0.69 0.36 0.83
o.~

NeekPoint-----·-·--·-····1

is 44 35.8411

Haywood ...····..···..···.. Cedar.Point ..···. ·····-··-· Cedar Point····-···--·--·-· Neck Point .····.···.· ···--·I

Bartlett ...· ·-··-··-··--·-·! 38 45 16.95 i 76 06 49.37 I

I
\

W·«=·lon Point .···· ····

I '-' 45 01.851
\

76 00 43.23

Holliday·-·-··-----··-----! 38 45 43.25 \ 76 00 07,87
Hudson

Ri~cr, (Little Cli.op-\
tank.)

\
\
~?.\.\A..~

1

i:i g:; ~ ~:,!;'."'.': :::: :::::::: :::J 510118 I Bartlett···-···---··-·--··33 31 \ Watermelon Point ....··.···.
4u

352 32 36 17 20 14

0.6() 0.31 0.80 0.96

231 00 52 213 46 09

\
'l\l?. ?.9 "-'-

\
'\15.1 "\..\ \)'}..

~\\\1\~.,, ~o'mt

·-·--· ---- ----

'lo \"1 .\'.1.1\.

liill'11-P"\n.t ..····· ____ -----\::,\>.u.1'."\l'""'h\~(.\.) ······ ____

<.e?. .\\l '3(}

'M.1

y~ ~~

4.777 .9 11\>\l\l."1 \

___.N_T_am_e_o_f_s_ta_ti_·o_n_.--l-'-L_a_n_·ru_d_e.__ .__L_o_ngi_·ru._d_e._I_/_A_z_im_u_th_._; _ _ _ _ T,_o __s_t_aa-·o_n__ _ _ _ ,'.(-B_ac_k_=_·_u_th_·. ,_D_i_·sr_·a_n_c_e. ( Distance. [Distance.
0 , n j 0 , ,, : 0 , ,, 33 30 19_53' 76 16 51.60 \ 159 43 59 l 1 124 08 34 0 , ,,

Hooper's Point ········ ---Ragged Point.. ··.········. Susquehanna Point.-------1ilcKeel' s Point ·· - ···..···. Hudson's Creek ...·..·· ---· Cedar Point ········. - ·.. - . Skinner ··················. Solomon's Cove ···· --- · --- . Patterson---------·· ·····.
Chesapeah Bay

Hill's Point. ············... James' Point............... James' Point.------ ·····... Hooper's Point . · · · · · · · ..··. Hooper's Point.---- .··..··. Ragged Point ..····..·····.
1

339 42 53 3iJ4 U6 43 273 26 19 200 04 43 240 29 29 288 14 10

Metres. 7382.8 5211.4
5275.3 2774.3 3746.7 2430.2 4564.9 2782.0 2-198.4 1633.2 1372.0 185tl.9 2289.0 1459_7 2479.l 1166.0 .Z'i57. 7 1860.l

I

Yards. 8!)73.7
5699.0

I

Mtles. 4.59 3.24
3.28 1.73 2.33 1.51 2.84 1.73 1.55 L0-2

38 31 44.04 38 31 19.36

\I,,

76 16 12.28

I I

93 28 14 200508 60 3!J 53 103 15 09 77 11 49 50 23 59

5768.9 3033.91 4097.3 2657.6 499-2.0 3042.3 273-2.2 1792.6 1501.0 203-2.8

I

76 14 36.9s :

38 32 16.90 l 76 13 03.49

I
I
l

1

Ragged Point. .···.·...····. \ 257 09 55 Susquehanna Point ·.·..·..· -1 230 23 04 Susquehanna Point .......·· McKeel's Point_---- ·..·... .,

33 32 37.74
38 33 00.88

! 76 14 10.76
76 12 00.3-1 76 II 27.99 76 10 11.21

I

14 43 44 293 04 34

-I

194 43 28 113 05 13
188 45 0-2 247 25 38

76 12 59.37 \

8 45 03
67 26 23 45 0.'3 21 80 55 47

33 33 08.35
38 33 36.37 38 33 33.99

McKeel's Point ········.·.·. ! Hudson's Creek .·.·.··.·... -i i }lcKeel's Point ····.···. ----i Ce-0.ar Point .······· --------!

I

0.85 1.16 1.42 0.91 1.54 0.72 1.71 1.15

.

~

2-26 07 33 260 55 10

1

63 49 15 42 12 13 73 21 31 92 16 27

Cedar Point .······. _·.·.··. 1 243 48 18 222 11 53 Skinner ····.·.· - .·.·.···· Skinner---- ...·..···..···. ! 253 20 23 Solomon's Corn .····.······. 272 15 39

·I

i

2.503.21 1500.3
2711.1 1274.9 3.'l15.8 I 203!.2

PlumPoint .··············· J 38 37 29.08

76 30 40.81
J

2:52 41 2-2 175 39 05

i Hoill1lld's Point. ·····. ____ ·. / 355 38 45

Tilahman'slsland-...... · · . .

72 47 47

1SU27.0 100-.W.4

17089.2 10'J67 .8

9.71 6.23

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpkical Positions.
Name of station.

Section IIL-Cltesapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch 0.
Distance. Distance.
Yards. 17688.9 5930.6 Miles. 10.05 3.37

--------- 1------1----~1~----1-----------1-----------1----1--~
Chew .··.·.····.····.····.

I
1

Latitude. o ' " 38 40 20.29

Longitude. o ' " 76 31 32.28 76 2-2 07.84 76 21 55.23 76 30 43.45 76 30 01.55 76 20 46.69 76 30 43.42 76 30 16.20 76 26 51.0-2

Azimuth. o ' " 272 13 08 346 43 49
339 08 46 18 59 04

Back azimuth. Distance.
o ' " 92 20 06 166 44 2-2

i

I

Sharpe:s Island, (~) ..··.·.· i 38 36 39.17 Sharpes Island Light ....... 1 38 37 43.75
I

!

Tilghman's Island ....·...··. Plum Point .....·......·.·.. James' Point ·...........·.. Wilson ....·............... Blake ..·................... P~p:ar Is.land, ( 1) .·····.··· -1

Metres. 16175.4 5423.2

159 10 12 198 56 15

2848.2 20-241.3 14971.2 14310.8 17727.3 13455.0 18120.1 8572.4 10289.l 50742.8 14550.9 5153.2 19311.8 730'2.2 10833.1 13318.0 10101.3

3114.7 2-2135.3 16372.l 15649.9 19386.0 14714.0 19815.6 9374.5 11251.9 55490.8 15912.4 5635.4 2ill8.t3 7985.5 11846.8 14564.2 11046.5

1.77 12.58
~.30

104 07 55 174 2-2 45
262 33 20 333 54 17

284 01 40
354 2-2 09

8.89
11.01 8.36 11.26 0 5.33 -~ 6.39 31.53 9.04 3.20 12.00 4.54 6.73 8.27 6.28

PaITan .·.·....··......·.. Dr. Dorsey .......·........ James' Island ....··........

38 32 50.28 38 30 06.42 38 31 54.71

Hill s Pmnt . · . . . . . ......... , S-2 40 53 'Vilson ................... . 153 56 49 Hill's Point ................ . "'ilson .........·........... Sharpe's Island, (1) .....···.. Hill's Point ..........··..... James' Island...... ·. .. ···. Dr. Dorsey....... . . . . . . · · . . Hill's Point...... . . . . . . . . . . Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Taylor's Island ...·..... James' Island ............·.. 66 11 5.3 145 09 05
354 43 19 38 09 24

246 04 52 325 06 59 174 43 44 218 08 03 276 42 45 348 38 40 241 10 17 313 56 35
254 14 12 2-21 29 43

0

S. Y. Dorsey .... ·... .··.·.
Bond.....................

38 32 50.29
38 29 0-2.70

96 48 57 168 39 06
61 17 32 133 58 50 74 18 39 41 33 20

Wtlson, (2)............ · · · ·
Taylor's Island.... ·.·· ····
'TIUo.'iY.ll.S ······ · ······ ····

38 26 31.32
38

~~-56

····!
1

\ 76 19 40.90
1\l 1.<:)

33'1 33 36
24 4'\ 23

i\Ieeldn's Neck .·······.·.··. \154 35 27

°3S 'is

1:)1;.'ilA,\

~.&,

~-o~-e-~~~:~.-~~ ~ ~ ~--~~ ~ ~~ .· ~~ ~. -~~~-~-~- __ . . ~~~~~--~- . . ~~~~~--~- _ .... ~--~-1

lhzz'ied S.tal'es Coast Suruey.-Cleograpnicd .Posz~imu.
Name of station.

Section IIL-Cliesapeake Day.
To station-

Sketcli C.
Distance.

{

Latitude.
0
I 11

Longitude.
0
I 11

(

Azimuth.
0

Back azimuth. /Distance.
0
I /I

I
/

Distance.

~---------1----~1----~1
I II

lliEKIY'S NECK ···· ----....

38 23 10.66
38 21 30.68

76 16 42.09 76 23 16.16 76 21 42.77 76 22 36.10
I

CALVERT-----------------CEDAR

--·--- ---- ---- ------ ------ ------ ------ ---- ------ ---- ---- ------ ---- ------ ---- i---- ----------------··r··------------------------- -------------- ---------- ---------- i---- ----204 42 20 140 09 09 18 05 00 69 53 51 168 14 33
86 31 37 111 52 01

Metres.

Yards.

Miks.

PoL'<T ·············. \ 38 17 54.09
38 23 07.24

------ ---- ----1------ -----·------ ------ ---· ·----· ---- ··-- ---- -----· .......... ---- .... .

Cove Point ············ --··\

I
I

Taylor's Island.............. Dr. Dorsey.................

24 44 09 3"20 04 32 198 05 00 249 50 09 348 13 58 266 2618 291 45 44

·cove Point Light ........... ...... _ "' 3B 23 06.60 I 76 2-2 3tL40
1

I Cal>ert ..··.. ·..· ···· ··.·..
Point................ ICedar Meekin'sXeck.... .... ·.·.·.

l

10159.6 168!3.1 3104.0 9239.3 6721.1 12524.1 15901.9

11110.3 18419.2
3394.4

6.31 10.47 1.93 5.74 4.18 7.78

Barren Island..............

38 19 37 .25

76 15 45.65 7613 08.23

10103.8 7350.0 13696.0 17389.8

Ponds ·············.·····. I · 38 18 19.01

I Calvert....................

! CedarPoint. ...·..··.·.....

9.88

.

~

Patuxent rii;er.
H og Island .········.··

····1

38 18 33.60 38 19 41.95

16 23 39.34

I
I

260 16 46 293 15 36 270 3-'i 13 3"2"2 16 12 248 40 41 178 3-'i 20 248 45 3-2 342 37 44

Barren Island ..··..·.···.··. 80 21 39 Cedar Point .····· _....·.··. . 113 16 48 Barren Island. ___ ·· - .··· -- .. Hog Island ..··......······. Hog Island ..····.··.·.·.... Slatt .····..·.·.· ---· .· - -- Slatt .··.·..·.········..... Carroll ···················· 90 40 48 142 16 54 68 41 21 358 35 18 68 45 50 16-2 38 04

siatt ..···..····...···...· I c arroll
I I

·.···.······· ······! 38 18 13.S-2

I
I

I 76 24 46.471
16 24 43.10
76 25 15.20

J ones,(2) .·········· --····\ 38 19 33.15

I

I

I

I

I 13135.1

11671.5 3082.5 2663.7 1678.0 2717.9 748.8 2562.6

12764.1 3370.9 14364.2 2912.9 183.'i.0 2972.2 818.9 280-2.4

7.25 1.9-2

.

8.16 1.66 1.04 1.69 0.47 I.60

I

co
~

Im"'

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpliical Positions.
I

Section IIL-OhesapeakeBay.
To station-

Sketch 0.

Name of station. Sandy Poiut ······.·······. 'Voodyard ..··········..... Tholl{lS ................... Town Point, (2)

Latitude.
0

I·
I

Longitude.
0

I
! i

.Azimuth.
0

,,

,

,,

, ,,

I

Back azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distance. \ Distance.
0

,

I

~

!

3:3 IS 53.15
38 17 30.42 38 18 26.2'2

76 27 OLS-2 76 26 50.94 76 27 54.47 76 28 21.97 76 27 49.41 7G 29

244 31 24 2b'9 51 21 174 05 0-2 246 34 49 237 00 41 318 05 43 286 45 43 3"24 48 40 3"26 2'2 07 34 29 35 210 54 18 212 18 38 342 14 49 28 23 42

Jones, (2) ..·······.··.····. Carroll .··········.······.. Sandy Point .·······.······. Carroll .·.·····.·..··...·.. Sand,- Point ··.···.·······.. Woodyard .····.·.···.····. Smuh- Point ...········.··.. 'i'>oo~lyard ...····.···..··. -1

64 32 109 52 46
3'.>4 04 5.5 66 36 08

" 27

Metres. \ 2853.3 ' 3567.41

Yards. \ 3136.7 3.'399.2

Miles. 1.78 2.22
1.60 2.(,'9 0.95 1.44 1.26 2.39 1.30 0.87 1.30 1.09 1.60
1.71

2.564.3 3368.5

I
I

2804.2 3683.1 1667.6 2527.8 22-23. 7 4197.6 2-282.4 1521.4 2237.9 Hr23.9

57 01 13 138 06 2"2 106 46 33 144 49 37

152-1.91 2311.5 I 2033.4 3838.4
I

....... -.... -.... -

38 19 12.lil
38 19 49.52

I

I
Somerrille ................ Abell .···········.··..···.. 38 19 50.60 Hungerford .·.······.···. · / 38 21 09.02
Gilliam .······.····.·····.

I
r

I

Sandy Poiut ..·· · ·. ·· · · · · · · · I 146 22 37 Town Point, (2) .·····.····· -1 214 29 15 ..····..·······.. ISomerville Town Point, (2) .···········. 90 55 11 13"2 19 11

2087.1 ! 1393.7 II 209-J.l 1 1759.5 i
I

15.541

76 28 21.721

Somerville .················ 1 , 162 15 09 Abell ...·..···..·········· -1 208 23 09 Hungei:ford ·····.·······.·. 99 01 44 1 132 19 14 Somenille ...········.·· - - · 1 Hungerford .····.····.··.·. \ 149 37 3"2 Gilliam ······.·.. -· · ·.. ·· ·· i 176 53 01 \ Hungerford ..···..··..····. \ 12'2 10 40 62 10 5'
Gi.\foi.m · · · · · · · · · . ··· ·· · ··· · 1'eteueu.. ,... ······ .··· ···· 1S.3 42 25 '314 ·~ \)\)

2..'l73.8 i 2748.5 2340.0 4186.6 499-2.7 39-15.7 576:)..i \ 2W7.9 \
'32.iS.'3 \ 9\li .1.
I '

2814.6 3005.7
2.559.0 4578.3 5459.9 4314.9 6299.4 2'J07 .1
'3;',S~, .1

38 21 20.9-2

76 29 56.9-21 279 00 45 312 17 55 76 30 05.76 76 31 ;i2.62
'j\) ~

1.45 2.60 3.10 2.4.5 3.58 l. 65
2.()
().

Petersen .................. , 38 23 28.71 Setterly Point- .·.·.··..·... \
fa, LeQrui:rd? a Creek .······ \

3"29 36 28 356 52 56 30-2 08 36
2-1.2

38 2-2 48.47
~

m 5-t

\·re=· ................... \

2.3 \)\).()';_\

'30 . .\7

lo, 4'1 ~ 1'M '32. 1.e,

1.\l\l\\.4

l7n~ed &ates

Ooosr Bun:ey.-Oeograp/tical Positions.
Longitude.
0
I II

Section IIL_;C/tesapeake Bay.
To station/ Back azimuth.
!

Sketch C.
' I

Name of station. B rougham's Island .·· --· ··.. Hi igh Bank ······ ----·· ···.

I
I

Latitude.
0
I II

i

I
I

.Azimuth.
0
I II

I

Distance. / Di.stance. /Distance.
JJ[etres.
'1

38 24 37.25 38 23 16.65 38 25 25.41 38 25 53_79

76 32 29.42 76 32 58_61 76 34 12.61 76 37 45.61 76 36 03_67 76 35 14_65 76 39 23_38 76 37 47_10 76 39 3<J.61 76 38 2'2_64 76 41 16.10

301 13 11 341 17 40 195 54 09

Petersen - -- ··.·····.···... -1 Setterly Point- ..............

I
i
i

0

I

,,

121 14 ·~o 161 18 09 15 54 27 84 56 53

264 55 06
300 39 35 300 58 33 279 35 39 304 48 24 241 58 55 133 02 08 24 56 23 86 G7 12 330 15 41 302 52 50 318 09 53 84 24 24 3"7 19 10 324 30 03

Brougham's Island ·····.···. Petersen ····.····.· -·--···· i

-

407iLl 3541.2 2584_3 4210.7

I

Yards.

!
I !
i
I

445i.5 3372_6
282iU 46:J4_7 318-2_3 7636_9 5729_8 9-275.7 3337_0 3698_9 3084_0 4013_7 52'27 _3 7854.5 6'l5Ll 25'J4_3 4101-8 4725_0 1628_2

Miles. 2_53 2.20
1-61 2_62 1-81 4_34 3.26 5_27 LOO 2.HJ L75 2.28 2_97 4.46 3.44 1.46

Barnes ______ ······ ---- ---·
R eeder .········ - · - ··· - ···

i Brougham's Island .· - ··. - . - - 1 120 40 39 Petersen .····· : ······.···· -1 121 01 07
Barnes ....·..········..·.·. 1 99 37 52 High Bank - --·· -- -·-· ·. - ---1I 124 51 23 62 00 04 Barnes __ ···..···....· _·.··. Reeder .................... ; 313 01 05 l\faud's Hi!L. _.........··.·. 204 55 58 Reeder-····· ....···· ··---- l 2G6 05 38 Reeder _. __ ··..······ _.··· Ayres _______.___ -----· ·.···.

2910_0 I 6986.2 i

aud's HilL ···.· __ .···· __ .1 38 24 3(3-93

5239_5 ! 8482_0 i r I I 3051-5 I 338'2.4 28'20_1
366fL7

Ayres .······ ---- ·········.
llfoD.mell. -- ____ -- _-- ____

I

I 38 26 01-87
38 28 08.41 38 28 15_83

-1

I 150 16 42 12'2 55 25
1

4780_0 7182.4 5'A2.5 2344.9 3750.8 43'20.7 14S.3.9 97;L1 1()332.0 5.551-9

Duke ········..····· : ···..

Ayres .·....····.··.....···. 1 rn3 11 28 M~Dan'.e~ .................. , 264 2"J 24 l\IcDaruell ..· ___ -····· ...··. i 177 19 14 Duke .·.·· _. _·· - · - . - - .··.. - 144 31 08

Holland Point---······-··-· 1 38 30 09_93 .hirley Point. ___ ._ ···.·. __\ Washington----·-- ····.·.· 38 28 01-22 38 30 45.19

l

I
I

2_33 2.&3 0_93 0.60 6.42 3.45.

98 ~'3 59 240 23 2-2
331 23 36 33\J 31 04

l\IeDanidL_ ·.. ------ ···---' 278 33 21 62 23 44 D"k-------- ---

--1

I

.McDaniel! .············. _··.

Reeder·-···--· ····.·.···· -

150 25 47 150 32 17

1129.3_8 6G7L4

"'""'I

United States Coast Survcy.-Geograpliical Positions.
Name of station.
Honga Rir:er.

Section 111.-Chesapeake Bay.
_.

Sketch C.
Distance. Distance. Yards.
J'tlilu.

----------,------1------1
0
I

I

Latitude.
H

Longitude.

l__ Az_i_m_u_th_.__ j_____ T_o_s_ta_ti_·o_n-----ij-B_ac_k_az_im_u_th_. , Distance.
I
1

Toll's Po1sT- ··.·········.· Ben's Point. ·· _·.···.····. _ Johnson- .··· _·····..··.··· Smoke Point ···············
Crabb Point ············ _··
1

38 15 37 _94

7:

38 18 37_00. 38 17 37_01 38 15 13-68

"18

"-"I

l~ ~.48 ~ ~---'·········-················-- ~ ~·--- --~~~~~--/_ ·.. ·· : ... Tom's Point_ ___ CedarPoiut .····.. _________

I

76 l3 03_571331 37 29 S-24527 76 07 58.451 76 1116-61 76 05 51-03 76 IO I0.36
1

·---~-····--

---· ·. : ··

151 38 49 2624005 272 12 53 217 45 28
69 00 IO

6603_3 12715-9 7418_1 698-Ll 5157_8 3366-1 9062_7
6991-2

72-21.2 13905_7 8112_2 7637_6 5640.4
36.31-1

4_IO 7_90 4_61 4_34 3_21 2_09 5_63 4_34 4_04 3_52 3_08 2-69 1-46 2_91
l-71 3_68

9"2 16 02 37 47 17
58 07

Ben's Point- ..··· - .····· ···Tmn's Point- ···.· ·-·······Johnson---·-·······--·····Ben's Point ·.· _·········..· _ Smoke Point .············· Johnson-····- .····.·· ·····Crabb Point ··············.. Johnson ..··· _.·...····· -··· Hickory Point. _··..····..·· Crabb Point .···········.··· Hickory Point---···---···-Crabb Point_ ··· _- ·.······ __ Windmill. .···· - ····.. ·-··-· Crabb Point. ·····.········ _ \ Ben's Point. ·.······.···... _ Willdmill ········ - ········· -

·[1.2

I 248

129 28 37

309 27 31
299 09 17
233 42 33

119 12 39 153 43 52
284 12 43 214 27 48

9910_7 7645.4 7111-9 6194_2 5415_8 4727_6
2564.8

r
~

0

t::::i

Hicko~ Point ·.·········· -1 38 16 05_55
Long ~dge ····.·········.
1

104 15 23 34 29 10
3-25 51 45 54 40 28

6503.4 5664.2 4952.4 4323.1 2345_3 4678_5 2743.3 59"23_8 \ 4799_5 4851-8 I

·

38 13 52.53

WmfuWll ······ -----· ----·· Hickory Cove ··············

1 aau~\
38 16 28.61
38 18 56.59

76 08 16-051 145 52 56 234 38 58 76 08 38.41 76 09 54.43 76 09 46.41
I

72 21 17 299 34 33 2':2-2 20 3-2 272 42 51
86 16 06 341) 05 38

252 20 20 119 36 16
42 21 19

5116_3
300lLO

9'2 45 2'2
266 14 04 160 00 21)

6478_1 5248_6 5305_8
I

Old Town Point ············

2_98
3_0l

Oitzted States Coast Sun:ey.-Geo 07'a['htCal Positi'uns. 0
Name of station.

Section Ill-Chesapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.

I
1

Latitude.

I

Longitude.

Azimuth.

/Back azimuth. Distance. / Distance. / Distance.

-0--.-.-.----------------------;
O · " O ' "

I
!

Wheatley...· --------------) 38 19 53.83 ' BarNeck ··

7611 06.18 761122.66 76 13 12.07

----·---------·il

I

3 26 54 330 25 24 24 41 28 352 59 24 238 47 56 298 17 43

o ' " Smoke Point ----------·-··-i 183 26 48 Windmill .. -----·------ ·... I 150 26 56
I

!

I
I
I

I

Metres. 42-26.1 7274.0

i
f
1'

i

YaTt/s. 4621.5 7954.6

i
I
I

t

i

Miles. 2.63 4.52

38 2139.40 38 20 47.23

Ben's Point. ... ____________ \ 204 40 25 Wheatley .. 172 59 34

----·-·--·-------!

I
j
I

5869.6 j 3'279.J

I 3585.91
I

6418.8 I 3395.8 ! 3797.l

3.65
2.04 1.93 2.16

Fishing Creek.-------------\

BarXeck.------·----------1 "Wheatley..··.·.···.·· ------

58 49 03 118 19 01

3105.2 i 3472.21

Hooper's Straits, Fishing

Bay.!

1

HoLI..L'iD ··················

I !

38 06 36.29 38 13 22.73 38 09 54.02 38 10 32.82 38 06 48.15 38 1126.96 381142.25

76 0514.88 ·---·----·---76 0-2 40.82 75 56 41.51 76 05 18.43 75 56 33.57 75 54 59.60
76 0-2 03.13

--·-·---·-----·------- -··--·-------Tom's PoinL--------·----Holland .......·....·...·... 289 C6 30 196 38 50.

i I ---·---·--1--·-··-···1···-··-··
l
12706.2 i 13895.1 / 13079.6114303.5 10854.9 7292.5
1

I I
,

I

Bishop's HeruL. - - .·· - - · - . . Turkey Point. ····. __ .. _. _.

109 11 35 16 40 25
64 0-2 51 126 23 10

7.90 8.13 8.64 6.74 12.72 4.35 9.38

1 Holland ...· ---- __ · ___ ._ ... - I 243 57 34 Bishop'sHead.......... .... 306 19 28 Point Xo Point . ___ - .. __ . - - . Hollaud .......... ---·-·---· Bishop'sHead. ..·.....·.... Holland .... __ .. _·.. --- . --- . Bishop's Head .···.. --- .. -- . Thomas ...·· --- ···--- .·· --Thomas. -- ----. ··--·- __ ···.
i Frank's Island ..·· ···--- ····

113907 .3 ,
I
.!

Bloodsworth.------·----·-·
ThomAB - -- ···. ··-·-- ·· --·:Frank's Island----·--··---· PinyHammock ···.·.····..

79 11 09 359 19 21 143 43 26 8.3 23 42 107 41 15 14 54 45 318 28 07

259 0-2 39 17919 23 323 39 39 268 18 20 287 36 30 194 53 47 138 31 30 9'Z 39 22

I 20467 .3 \ : I j 22.18'2.4 I

lrl218. 7 11870.6

1

I '

1

I
I

7974.9 \

15095.6 i 1&508.l \ 12703.3 i 1389-2.5 , 1 1773.9 839-1.6 12106.6 10315.6
12~-- 6 I /
i

7.89
7.31 5.53 7.52 6.41

;.~t9

1

2i2 35 01

13"W9 4 i 11280.8 :

Unit.etl States Coast Suri:cy.-Gcograplt'u:al Positions.
Name
.

Section IIl.-Chcsapcake Bay.

Sketch 0.

o~g=~:::--.--:u~ __Az_·_im_u_t_h_._ _ _ _ _T __ o_sr_a_ti_o_n__ _ _ _ l_B_a_c_k_a_z_im_uth_· _._ _D_i_st_·l!_nc_e_._ _D_i_st_an_ce_._ _D_is_ta_n_c_e. 1 1 1
\
o ' " i o ' /1 :kl 14 38.49 75 56 04.71

Sandy Island

I I

o

'

/1

0

.1

"

58 (15 47 344 58 5G
3 35 40 298 30 58 327 01 52. :u5 42 08 29 27 37 85 44 40 33() 44 01 2&3 44 41

Piny Harnmoek ·.····. ·····-! Frank's lslauJ .·······.····. ,.

238 0-2 05 164 59 3()
18'J 35 24 118 34 24

lt[etres. ltl272.2 6113.7

Ya·rds. 11233.4 66...,"5.8

Mile..~.

6.38 3.Sil
6.12 5.73

Roseneer ·················. \ 3817 01.3.'2 Fishing Point.............. Ragged.Point............. 38 18 20.71 38 17 28.2-2 3S 18 48.31

i
I !
11

i

76 01 37.73 76 GO 39.56

Pinyl.Iammock ············· Sandy IshruJ ..···...····.··

1

9856.5 9-215.1 15199.8 95t38.6 6009.4 ll077.2
&""2i_7

10i78.8 10077.4 16622.1 10463.9

Frank's Island ..·.····.····· / 147 05 2'2 Sandy Ishmd .. - · --- ---- --·· 135 44 58

I

i

9.44 5.!J5

I

75 54 03.J6 75 59 0-2.21

Wiison'sisland ·····.·····. Green's Island.............
Roaring Point ·············

I
I

:

Sandy Island ····.·····...·. 1 20!) 26 21 Rosencer .·..··.....··..·· - . 1 265 39 f>S
1
Sa~1 1lY Is1antl . ........... ---- ........ . . R,1gged l'oint ..···.·.··...··

6571.7 12113.7
9353.9 8391.5

3.73
6.88 5.49 4.77
3.53

150 45 51 108 47 46

7673.5
5616.7 7486.3

3.'3 20 31.66 [ 75 54 23.29 38 15 52.63

355 03 25 64 49 54 42 04 CG

!

75 54 39.88

I
Mulberry Island ············ Snake Island ···· ---------38 16 21.71
J

196 50 43
75 55 58.95
233 54 28 2 31 17

I

Rugged Point. .····.....·.. ., 175 03 37 1Yil.>on's Island.·.··········· I 244 47 01 I I i Sandy I>land ..····.····· - · -1 2-2'2 03 14 Ragged Po~t. .···..·..····· , lG 51 06 53 55 40 31 13

6207.9 8168.8
3366.5 3367.4 3S07.5 3483.4 1250-2.0 5797.8

4.65
1.91 1.91
2.16 1.98 7..10 3.29 1.93 1.71

3078.4 3079.3 3481.7 3185.:3 ll43'2.3 5301.7
3099.6 2i55.0
8814.S 44..(\1 _\)

I Ragged Pomt ··············· i

38 21 11.88 1 76 00 18.59
38 18 12.25 \ 76- 0-2 46.7~
'2\)

! i

! Sandy Island ..·.···.······· · I 182

307 03 57
5 30 55
265 09 47 322 3-2 20

l Ragged Point .·.···..··.···.

1

127 07 50

Jones: Island. ············. \

I

\ Fishing l'oiut ..····..·...... i 85 11 06 \ Roseucer ...···.··.···.·.·· -\ 142 33 01
\ Jones' 1.~ani\ ..············. \ \ ~llilke h\l.l.n.i\. -·-·-·· ········ \

! Fishing Point ..···· - ·····.·. i 185 30 42 : I

3389.6 &!13.0
OC.39.G 4.819 .'\.

'lni:y I> !slim~·--------·----\ .38

~.69

\ 'fa 1)1 '.?fl.&!

lhtaed Stu/es o.,ast Surl'ef/.-Geo,g-ruphcal Posi'titms.
I

Section DL-Cnesopeake Bay.
I

Sketch C.
I

Name of station.

Latitude.
Q
I II

L<Jngitude.
0 ,
ii

r ·

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

To station>-~~~~~~~~~~

/ Back azimuth. / Distance.

Distance. / Distance.
~~~~.-~~-

I I

Insley' s Mill .·············· Clay Island Light ·········.

38 18 56.04 38 13 53.05

76 0-2 5!L68 ' 2.ss 51 51 355 53 36 75 58 ()8.46 75 50 40 .72 75 53 0-2.94 75 53 32.26
245 01 27

Fi>hing Point ...··-..··.···· · t 108 53 12 Jones' Island............... 175 53 39 .·.···········. 65 0-2 44 Piny Hammock .·····..····. ! 234 44 19
I

!

0

,

,,

~Metres.

3366.3 1353.3 3319.3 6989.0 8-257.4 6363.5 5298.7
4361.7 13350.3

Yards. i 3tkll.3 i 1479.9 :

Ballard -··· .············· Long Point, (Monie Bay)- ··· Stump Point .············.·

I 38 14 20.21
38 12 JO.G2 33 13 38.86

54 46 44 49 42 59 !J4 07 11 136 00 45 2'20 44 39 2':2 ;,9 27
87 54 50

S~ndy JgJ:md

I

3629.9 7643.o

I
I
I

Miles. 2.09 0.84

Frank's Island ..··········· .1 Sandy Nand. .... .. . ·.. .·. .

2"29 40 18 274 03 51

9030.0
6!J58.9 5794.5 4769.8 14599.5

8637 - 0 iI
I

!
i
i
1'

2.06 4.34
5.13 4.91
3.95 3.30
2.71 8.29

Sandy Island . . · · · . · . · · · · . . . Ballru:d . · · · · · · · . · · . · · · · · · · .
Ballard . . . . . · . . · · . . · · · · · · . . Bishop's Head . · · · · . · · · · · · . ·

315 58 53 40 46 07
73 01 13 267 49 11

i

Cow Creek ···············.

38 18 36.66 38 19 3"2.81 38 21 0-2.06

75 55 42.30 75 52 45.11 75 52 57 .67

208 25 12 311 12 39 68 06 37 127 17 GS 3.'53 40 43

Green's lf'laniL..... · · · · · · · . 28 26 01 R<:gged Point. ··.··.·..··· - - I 131 13 40 Cow Creek............. . . . · Green's Island.............. 2-1'l 04 47 3:}7 16 07

4031.4 3-20:!.4

4408.6 35G'2.1
5073.0
3'~6.6

I

\

l

2.50
1.99

Hat Crown Point ··········.
Beach ····················

4638.9
2996.2

I !
i
i

2.88 I.86
1.72

w

44 4(.1

Hat Crown Point............ 173 40 51 Green's Island ......·....... l 245 43 G6 Hat Crown Point .····..·.··. / 21!) 16 23 Beach .··.·..·..··..······· : 287 16 25
Cedar Hammock ·······.···. Beach.....................

Cedar Hammock ······.···.
Brick Kiln Cove ······· - ···.

38 20 41.51 ' 75 51 33.78

38 2'2 20.291 75 51 51.09

I

39 17 0.3 107 17 17 352 08 48 :n GO 12

I

30-27 .6 2493.8
2736.3 2130.1

1.42
1.70

299-2.3 2332.71
3.'361.91 3175.l

I

1.33
1.91 LSD

j

172 08 59 213 4!J 30

3074.2 2903.4

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station.
Latitude. ]
1

Section IIl.-Chesapeakc Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.

Longirnde.
o / ,,

\

Azimuth.
0
I 0

Oak Hfillllllock ..···..···... \ 3S 21

I
I i

o

,

I 36.431
,,

I

i

l
'

Back azimuth.
0 " '

I

Distance.\ Distance. Distance.

\

75 50 31.07 !

41 57 55 124 51 12

I

I_!.ammock .·.·.. ______ 1 B11ckK1lnCove ............

c~~lar

221 57 16 304 50 2'2 160 2-2 44 203 35 18 200 52 56 260 04 09 1210616 20124 26 204 16 10 252 04 43

I
/

Metres.

2:2?7-~

Yarc{s.

~90_2·

I
1

I

2366.0> 33b'"'9.l 2007.9 3889.4 2562.7 22-20.5 1706.2 2-261.8 2975.0 2513.0 2790.3 1979.3 2131.8 2046.8 1666.3 2604.6 2113.0

2587.9 3706.2 2195.8

Mileii. 1.42 1.47
2.11 1.25 2.36 1.59 1.38 1.06 1.40 1.85 1.56 1.73 1-23 L:J2 1.27 1.04 1.62 1.31 0.98 1.33

Donoho ..····.····.. -····· 1 38 23 19.97
Sankey's Island ..···· ---···

75 51 17.981 340 22 15 23 35 39 75 49 33.95

I

38 23 34.30
38 24 11.49
l

I

I

Windmill IIill ............ .
Red Oak Island ··········..

75 50 52.3'2 ! 301 05 27 I 21 24 42 75 48

I

20 53 3-2 80 05 13

Io~ H~i;nmoc~·-···--······· . Enck KilnCO\e ·... .·..·... I OakHammock. .·····.····. I Donoho...................

4252.3 2802.51 2428.3 1865.9 2473.4 3'253.4 2748.2 3051.4 2164.5 2331.3 2-237.4 18"2-2.2 2848_3

Sankey'sisland .........·.·. Donoho ..···.·..·..·...··.. Sankey's Island . . . · . . . . . · · . . Windmill Hill · . . . ·. . . ·· · · · .

38 24 41.17 ,' 3S 25 36.25
38 25 44.80

55.631

Nanticoke Manor ·.······.·.
Den Creek ·.······.·.····. Vickers..................

i

75 50 12.00 75 48 44.77

! !

24 16 34 72 05 55 312 30 39 20 31 33 7 39 06
82 54 34

I Red Oak Island .·.·.·.·····. I
' Windmill Hill . . · . · . . . . . . . . .

l8land ....·····.·.. 1187 38 59 N anncoke Manor. · . . . · · · · . · 26'2 53 40
Den Creek. . . . . · · · . . . · · . · · . Nanticoke Manor . . · · · · . · . . . DenCreek ...···.....·..... Vickers.................... 129 51 54 199 04 45 18-2 14 51 23'2 19 20

~ed ~ak

132 31 27 200 31 08

38 26 27.33 j 75 49 49.54 75 48 40.57

i ~ ~ ~i
i
I

Gumisland .······..·.····. 1 38 27 09.2-21

I

PointPlea.sant. .·····.····.

\'38

I
27 35.70

I

l \75 49 36.05 i\30t ~~ ~
"la 4.1 '5.\.4.a
~

2 H 54 522003

2310_7

, Gnm Island ··.. .·· · ..· . ·. . . . 121 15 56 2133.1 'lckers ..·....···........·. \ 188 49 21, '\ 1573_5
'.U9
<i.;,s

1720_7 233'.L7

1?.a.nell. Croo\i.. · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

'38

zz

tl'l .ao

"l'i'>i

Gum 1~l=-i\. ·..·· --·· ···· ____ m 4.1 1.)1'>, \A \ '?omt 1"\e"""8l'.l.t. _ ········ - - · ·

m \8 m \\

174.0.1
251.l;.1

Name of station.

(

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0 , ,,

.Azimuth.

I

f

To station-

( Back azimuth. ( Distance.

Distance. ( Distance.
.Miles.

I

II

0

,

,,

Vienna....................

3S 29 07 .57

75 48 56.18

....
Tangiu Sound.
f

t.:l

327 Ui 14 18 50 41

.-----------. / Barren Creek...............
Point Pleasant..............

,----l-l-'a-r-ds-.-1'
o ' "
.ltlctres.

147 07 52 198 50 16

2756.0 299"2.8

3013.9 3;?;2.8

1.71

1.86

Solomon E1ans ·...··...·.. ' 38 0-2 27.21 Jane's Island .···....·..·..
37 58 3(1.03

76 00 42.61 75 53 37.33 75 52 07.75 76 0-2 09.48 76 05 47.29 76 0-2 42.58 75 58 47.61 75 59 18.6.5
75 0-2 14.84

139 11 36 217 00 34 125 12 58 l&l 23 05 97 41 11 9 58 43

I Thomas . ..·... ·.··.. ... ...

\ Holland....................

319 08 48 37 03 09 305 08 36 344 21 16 lS:J 57 44

101'18.S 10077 .1 12691.2 15946.2 19347.2 12617 .1

11098.4 110-20.0

I Solomon E1ans ...·......... , I Thomas ...·..·.........·.. ;
i Holland .........·.......... I Jane's Island ............... !

I
1

6.31 6.26 7.89 9.91 12.02 7 .84

13878.7 17433.3 I 21157.51 13797 .7

Prickly Point ..·........·.. i. 38 05 13.10
SHA..'{Jt's H.H!llOCK ········· '

1 277 33 05

37 55 15.59 33 08 10.37 38 01 21.20 37 59 50.29 37 57 08.94 38 0-2 03.67

--:---:-----T---------- --------------:---- -:--:-- --------: --------/--------J::;90;,l7 344 46 37 159(1558 118 52 11 149 54 41 288 04 21 215 06 37 ~3 16 01 moodsworth ....·.·......·. ! 90:>35 1 J Holland .........·.·.·..·.· -, 164 46 57
I : iH~llan~--··:···············

.
0

~

~

Long Island ............·..

4447.n 3005.9 10399.3 27290.0 5'.J91.8
I

4863.7/ 3287 .2 1 11372.4! 298t3.5 6115.0

2.76 1.87 6.46 16.96 3.48

Jones ....·......·..·.·.·.. Barn Point. ............... Horse Hammock .·..·...·.. Fog Point Light .···.····.·.

~I Jane's Prickly Point............... Island .· ·.....·····...

l l

I Pomt No Pomt... ... . . . . .. .

3390424 298 42 06

I

Solomon Ernns. . . · . . . . . . . . . 329 53 30 Jl!Ile'slsland ..·....·..····. 1 108 07 3-2
35 11 02 73 19 31 43 30 31 72 06 52

~~.--:~~-

i

- .7 9511.3 '

5.41 7.51 1.47

2"23 27 00 Thpnias . . . · . · · . · · · · . · · · . . · . 252 05 56 · / Solomon EYans . · · · · · . · · · · · ·

12086.9 2363.1

13217 .9 2584.2

j

United States Coast Sunx:y.-Gcograp/1ical Positions.
N llllle of station. Latitude.
G '
'1

Section IIL-Chcsapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.
\ ·
1

\

I

Longitude. 75 49 39.74

, Azimuth.
o ' "

:

Back azimuth.
O ' "

i

! Distance.

Distance. ! Dbtance.
\ _ _ _...,.

I

ll--U--,-,,--

------------------------'

i

Little Bolton ···......····. . 3;3 01 4i.25
Crane Point ...·......·.·.. Piny Island .·.···.···.··.·.

I

380333.421 754834.18 38 06 28.09
i

I
I

I

43 33 51 150 23 34 382058 120 34 27
48 32 14 299 06 32

'Jaue'" hland .·.··....··.... ' 2-23 36 25 ·Prickly Point ...... -·······! 3:'IO 2-2 03

l~M~~t;"-i

! -~ ~ · ..-_
7300.0 J·
I

I

79d3.l'

4.54 7.41 3.76

!

Jane'sMantl. ........·..... '·2181751 P1ickly Point............... 300 32 15
Solomon E>ans........ ·····. 2-28 28 42 , Piickly Point ....···...··... ' 119 08 18

: ll!:r23.2: 13038.9 6044.3 ! 6609.9 11209.0 ' 4750.3 10888.2 4963.8 12736.3 6855.2 3385.7 10936.3 7999.3 2942.5 4194.3 5276.9
72....~.2

75 54 5~3.09

12275.8 5194.8

I
I

6.96 2.95

St. Pierre ·.··.·....···. - - .
Blulf, (Tree) ·.··.··..··...

38 07 18.52 \ 75 49 59.99

I
I
I'

116 09 27 3S 50 3:2 270 57 48 109 58 57 44 52 06 337 o~ 43 338 16 16 154 07 12 13"2 25 58 172 18 04

Turkey Point ..........·..·. ' 296 05 19 : Prickly Point............... 218 49 13 Prickly Point. ·.·......···.. : 910311 Hollan.I.................... 289 56 14 Hollfllld ...··...·........·.· ; 224 51 00 ' Solomon Etans .. - - - - · - ·· - - - ; 157 IO 3{)

11907.0 1 5428.3 139-28.0 7496.7

6.7"7 3.08
7.91 4.26 2.10 6.80 4.97 1.83 2.61 3.28 2.53 7.69

rn
t:::;
0

38 05 20.38

76 00 50.38

I
I
i

1

r
~

Spring Island .···..····.··.
Cedar Hammock Point ·.... South l\Iarshes.............
Cold Quarter. ·······.····.

38 07 54.13 / 76 03 36.83 38 06 28.27

l i
!

370"2.5 1 11959.6 8747.8 1 3-217 .8 \ 4586.8 5770.7 7969.l 13537.9 39737.9 259-29.9
l~.5

76 0-2 44.06 76 03 07.i9 76 01 24.75 76 21 25.11
1"5 M 1A .':>'2

i

Solomon Emus ..········... 1 158 17 31 . Spring lslfl!ld ..··...·. _ ····.. ; 334 06 39
·Holland .......··..·..·.···. ' 312 24 40 , Spring Ishrnd............... 352 17 46

I

38 05 04.52
38 C9 07.38

50 17 15 355 14 23
3()9 02 43
274 30 37

Hollanu ...........·........ Solomon Evans . . · . . . . · · . · . .

230 14 53 175 14 49
1

12379.5 36337.8 23711.2
\\ 11879.0

l'ea. Hill .......· ··········\ 38 07 39.67
\

I

Shank'sRannuock..·........ ' 1291435 Rolland ..........····...... 94. 48 36
1

22.58 14.73
7.38
S.1.0

°F<>-s. 1."\al\3. ···············.\,,

~

':>'.\

m..'l\)

\

""'""""''-'"' lianunoc\i. ·····.····\

·i:..~e.~ ---····---------·· ··\ '21.1. ;>1. ;>9,

~ '2'2

\'>'.\

\.~.'l.

lA\?A\l.4.

___N._am_e_of_sta_uo_n_.~_(

I

Latitude.
0

(

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0

I

I

To station-

Back az:imnth. ( Distance. / Distance. / Distlll!c6.

Goose Harbor ·······.··· · · 1 37 52 01.51
T.A.SGI.ER lsLA..'ID ········· · ·

l
l
I
I

~~~-~~~~~~~-1-----~

' "

75 59 53.21
I

Pocomoke Bay.

i I i 37 47 53.81 I
I

l50 55 14 247 20 20

'

,,
i

0

I

75 58 56.11

............................
I

. ..........................l.............. '
I

Shank's Hammock .····.···. }'ox Island .·...·· __ .·.···· _

33"'.J 53 51 67 31 48

"

i' I Metres.
!

:

&346.8 8957.5

Yards. 7487.5 9795.1

Miles. 4.25 5.57

i . ...................

.. .. ... .

-. --- . I ...............
8.95 8.67

I :Beach I.sland ········.···· · 1 37 47 31.19 l 75 49 07.57

9-2 49 25 147 2'J 17
137 21 23 20 30 01 114 25 46 183 39 26

;, Tangier _ .··..·..··..·····. : Fox Island ............... - .
!

27~

43 2-5 327 26 09

14413.3 l:s950.4

15762.0 15255.7

rn

Woody Islai1d : ···· _·····.· Scott's Hall ..········.·.·.

! 37 42 09.75
!
!

75 52 16.55 75 49 22.37 75 53 15.9"2 75 53 17.80 75 43 30.31 75 50 OB.58 75 45 21.86

Tangier ............ ;..-~ - ..... - ........ - . Sandy Point ·...···..··· ___ ·

!

I

317 17 18 200 33 34

14428.0 .. _: 15778.0 18410.1 16834.9 15414.0
567!~1

8.96
10.46 9.58 3.53 5.29 5.83 6.23 3.88 10.16
9.8~F

37 44 27.41 37 48 51.98 37 46 52.6"2 37 55 09.4-1
37 56 32.46

T"""~ ------1 Beach Isllllld ··.·......····.
1

--------------

294 19 55
3 39 35

16856.3
6208.3 9397.9 10258.2
c

. . =
0

t::1
r:>

Watt's Island ..· - ···.·..··.
Watt's hlarul Light _.·.·.·· Sykes Mand .···..·· _······ W ate1melon Hammock .··.· Tunnel's Island ············

77 52 00 171 13 20
2;j8

. Tangier ·· _................. 257 48 31 ; Fox ~sland .. _.... _.·.··.·.. , 351 12 45
T~er .........··.·.··.·..

8511.5 93'33.5 8488.6 6235.9

10-2 52 r.9 5ll 16

Beacu Manil ...·.·· - .·.·.·. 1
i Beach Island .·..· - ·..· - ··· -1 , Fox Island·····-- ·.·.·.

2"2-2 48 42 79 01 50 2]0 14 16 261 23 35.

30 17 43

Bl 30 10
IZ> 26 42, 2i'A 4:2 2->
25 05 11 229 27 39

--··1
-l

16356.5 i 17887.0 15911.7 i 17400.6 6Z"i2.9 10()55.8 13024.6 6838.0 10996.7 14243.3 3920.8

-

928-2.9 6819.4

Jane's Island_ ..· __ --- · _···. 3CJ5 24 25 1 Sykes Island .···.. - ·...··.. 1 104 46 37 Beach Tuland .············· Sykes Island ···············.
205 02 52 49 28 48

3.89 6.25
8.09 2.23

37 53 53.88

3585.3 i

~

"""

United States Coast Su·rvey.~Gcographical Positidns.
Name of station.

Sectton !IL-Chesapeake Bay.
To station-

Sketch C.
Distance. I\ mstanee

I

Latitude.

- Longitude.

I!,

.Azimuth.

IBack azimuth. I Distance.
4; 209 47 08

___________ \ ,_--'---'---·l-'------'------\-----------1-----1----1----1
Maremscot ...·......·.·... ;

5~

2;.93

7~ 4~ ;~0.1 I 1~ 4~ 4~
I

29 49 07

Sykes Island.·.·............ Tunnel's Island............. Sykes Isl:md.. .. ...... ...... Tunnel's Island ............. Beach Island...............

19~ 5;

1:{~~;\ ;~::3; ~:~~
9523.5 10414. 7 ;
I

1

-

5.92 5.:IB 4.73 3.64

Guildford Island........... .
Deep Creek I8land .·...·...

37 50 36.16
37 47 31.61
37 56 51.18

75 42 14.99 75 45 08.07 75

167 40 57 14310 33 89 53 37

317 40 10 323 08 38

!
1
Ii

8023.3 7616..1 5859.3

9431).2 8329.1 i 6407.6

i

Watkins' Point .··.·.···...

Kellum ·······..·········.
Chesapeake Bay, Western Share.

i 37 40 03.281

48 02.83 ::: :: :: Tunnel's ~~u~~:f::~a::~n-~~::~:::::::: ~1 15 59 Isl:ind ............. , 143 25 18 Tangier.................... 75 51 35.85
'"' 43 01 "'"hl"'md ·········

l: :~ ~;
14" "

269 51 10

1,,

J.14 17 38
1

::~::
673,2. 6

. : : : : : ;

: : : :

---···1

323 20 49

Abell .····.·.·····.··.·...
Tarleton ·...··...·...·· - ..
I'oxsT No PoniT ······.···.·

38 16 52.88 38 14 07.48
38 08 27.45
~oz

76

23 09.17
\

189 18 3-2 2'28 0-2 32

Tom'sPoint. ...··....··.... Cedar Point................

11

97 ~6 07 48 03 25
81 13 2-2 17 15 13

I "2''-21
I
\
1
1

I 18G7L8 I

1 19762.8
151ij3.l
l!J690.3 3087 .3 \

736:UJ :

4 .18 11.23

8.81

18:105.5 28:.!3.l

I
f
I
,

11.19 1.75 6.89 4.54

76 23 11.96 , 261 05 45 1 197 1418

Tom's Point ...·..··.·...... l

7619 04.11 1 ,...... ········ ............................ ,. ............. 1... '" ..·.. 1.......... 1 . . . . . . . .
7~ 19 04.86 ~180 W 13 ~I) 11.9 '.M
"ii> 1.9 01..<\9 Yi<\ <\'l <\?. ~'i". \."\. '41:.

OedarPoint ................ I /
\
la<>"""-~---····-

18146.3 r 19844.3 ; 7315.3 j !

l

l'oint U>o\.--0ut ·········.·.
°?<:>\n..t'L><:>K.-<>n.t ~n.t.......

4\.74
\.'&."I'&

Point'!\ol'o'in.t ..·····..··... \ 0 06 13 liollliuO. ..... _________ ······\ 10 37 ~
>'<>'>n.t'L<mK-<m.t ·············

\
\

~ ~4

\

..·. -······-

~A <\'l <\\.

(~~~~~9.4. 234,56.4,
l§.f7

. 1056..'l.4

,-,.,,.

__

\

7999.8 l

11554.0 \

\

6.56 13.33
\?..-'\~

~ \.~ ~

<.!.\.l'U\!..~

.9

~\.~-"

\);:,»1.9\

0.55-

___

N_illll_e_o_£_sta_ti_on---~ (__L_a_ti_tu_d_e._,{ Lon,,oitude.. ( ' /o,n lo,,, I
I
!
j

A[imuth.
0 ' "

.1_!

-~~~-o~sr=a-ti~on_-_

/Back azimuth. / Distance, ! Distance. Distauc9.

Taylor .................... ! 38 03 fJ5.0-2
Point Look-in ...··········· : 38 Ofi 52.39

76 19 0.'>.39 · IBU 11 34 253 41 00 76 19 30.:79 t 76 13 58.30
187 44 Sl5 266 12 46

Point NoPoint........ ····.. Holland....................

I
I

L-----!0 ' "

0 11 35 73 49 32
7 44 42 8!.i 21 34

' i I 93-23.9 I 21078.9
I

I
\
I

/--~

f

Jrlelres.

Yards. 10W6.3 : 23051.2 j

!

'

Jlliles.

5.79 13.10
3.00 12.98

I

SMITH'S PourT LIGHT .······ ' 37 53 14.59

I

i PointNoPoint.. ···.·.··.·.. \ i Holland ...··. -·············! .
I

··············:····························1··············1 .......... ·········· ........ .
168 57 21 214 25 28

I
I
,

I ~0894.2, 2-2849.3 I

4~4.4

1i215.9

I

I

i

'

Hae];:'s N eek .·.·····.··.·· Hull's Neck ..············· Fleet's Point ········.·····
Spry's Hill ..···..···......

37 54 37 .30 . 76 15 38.92

!

; Point No Point ..····.·····. · I 348 55 15 Holland ...·.·..· : ·. 34 31 53

I
1

········!

1

37 56 57.16 37 48 44.35 37 52 14.20
i

76 20 48.81 76 16 40.51 76 18 40.59 76 14 37.90 76 20 26.74 76 17 32.30 76 17 43.54

'

193 18 09 276 26 27

Point Look-out ....·.······. : Shank's Hammock...........

13 19 13 96 37 5fi

I

1

26017. 7 26889.l

28517 .8

llOll .8 I 27509.1

1 I 12042.2 i 30083.1 /

~405.1

I I

16.20 16.71
6.84 I7.u9

358 22 05 273 2u 03
jl56 54 39 254 52 rn

Windmill Point............. Tangier Island.............. Shank's Hammock.,.. ..······. Smith's Point Light ..····.·.
Smith's Point Light ..·····.. Shank's Hammock ....·.····. · Spry's Hill .......··...·... ; Tangier Island .·.·..·.·..... Spry's Hill ..··.· - ·...····. Fleet's Point ..........···. -

178 22 21 93 30 56 77 04 48 74 55 12
9 12 37 62 06 39

22-282.9 · 24367 .9 i 26081.l · 225.21.5 !

I

13.8-5 16.21 15.44 4.44
3.76 12.86

24B49.7 27174.9 ! 714fi.3 . 7813.9

'

i

Taskmaker .·············.·

37 50·00.78:

IBO 12 12 241 5o 59
196 53 42
26:l 57 2d
;

6052.7 : 6619.1 2-2640.9 20703.7
8926.6 9761.9 31576.3 . 34530.9

Doctor Hudnell ..·········. ! 37 47 37 .15 Damerone's :lfarsh ······..· 37 46 55.59 37 41 16 .45

IG 54 47 89 10 39

5 19.62
6.19 2.23
8.63 18.76

-=
~~

170 21 21
200 42 Oi3

350 20 39
20 42 40
6 22 56 66 09 45

9962.9 . 10695.1 3584.3 3!ll9.7 13893.9 15194.0 30196.0 i 330-21.4

:Bluff Poi.D.t · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

186 Z-2 18

245 58 15

jjwgier Islwld ··············

Heet's Point ..·.···.······ -

United States Ooast Survey.-Geographical Posi&s.
Name of station. Latitude. Longitude. Azimuth.

Section IIL-Ohesapeake Bay. Sketclt O.
To station-

1 1Bac k .·.. h . ID:istance. ID. · aznnut :I istance. ID. lstlillce.
I
!
I
0 ' "

--~------------ - - - - - - - - - - - 1 - - - - - - - - - - - - I
'I
0 , ,,

.

!·

\

N1111tepoison .··.·· _ ··.·· __ . · 37 38 25.59 i 76 17 3-2.63 j 183 49 27

0

r

"

i

0

'

"

I
I

I 237 15 30 76 17 59.04 ' I 191 3i 34 I 254 21-15

Tru1gi~r Islaml. .···..... --··i

Flee~'s Point - .·.· - - ... -- --· /

I

'

I_ __
Yards. 20906.6 35509.7
Mil~$.

3 49 59 57 26 53

1 :bfetres. ,I Wll7. 7

3-2471.4

i
!
1
r

11-88 2iL18

H-nghlett'sKeck .·····.···. · 3i 43 41.50
1

!
I

!

Fleet's Point ...·..·..·.··... ! l Tangierisland .··· ~-----·---1 Point Light-honse .... 1 'rangier Island .·.· ----··--·· Windmill Point. ...·.... ·--·, SandyPoiut ..··....·....... 1
1

W1xnllILL

PoLn. ·..· ····..

37 36 41.82 j 37 33 35.14

76 16 14.63
76 17 21.72

j(

186 12 41.9 230 45 04.6 195 57 12 259 4.2 09 189 33 23 250 59 56

~mir~'s

i 95;)2.2' 7141 ~ 33 ~ 25 I 29032.9 '.
6 14 05..t i 30786.3 50 55 39.8 ! 32304.5

10-124.1 31749.5 33667 .0 35S74.0 6545.7 33915.9 11673.4 3H79.l 19.13 20.37

Stingray ··.·..···· ·-·----· CherryPoint..............

i
1 11

I

!

, I

I
I
i,

15 57 53 89 54 59 9 34 12 81 12 50

5985.6: 31013.9. 10674.6. 31529.0 '
~

37 31 00.36 [ 76 17 26.91,

l

I
I
J

I

Windmill_Point. .. ----·----.·[ Sandy Pomt ·--··· ·.··.····.

1

I I
I

i

I

Gwynn's Island .··········. : 37 28 21.76 l 76 15 14.82 [ 174 3:3 52 i 250 37 36
WoLF Trur ··············. NewPt.ComfortLigbt-house:,, CapeHenryLlght-hou$l ···. Old Pt. Comfort Light-house.\ 37 24 00.73

!

i
i

76 14

24_l.,

r
.

3i 17 59.06

i1

76 16 2'2.01

I-·····--·····-1·····-····················-· ·----·--··---·,--······-·
I
1

1

25 230 11

J?~

~~
3-~

'
J

W!ndmll! Point··--··- .·.... J 3.')4 3.'3 15 Sauux Point .. _._ ·. - ... - - _.. 70 49 09
·

. lil485.l ; l693Ll I 29573. 7 3-2340.8
:

Windmill_Point............. I Sandy Po1m .···.. .·.. ···...

:J?3"2.} 1? 56 z'~ 33

~361?.6
s~085-4

258'27.5 35375.0

36 55 28.63'

:;::::::~~t~~=--~\ m~~?.~7;.~~ 7:~":~~~: -~~~~~~--~~~--~\~~~--~~------~~~--~~~~~~---.~----~~\~--~:-.~~~~~--~\~~~:~~::~\~~~~:~:~:\~~~~~~::.

m 00

0'~.10

~6 00 l~.55 \~---···~·····.-·\······· .. ·······--··--······\.--····· .. ····-\··· .. ·~···:·--·· .. ···\·····--·· ,6 l.S 0;>.(58 -- ·· ·· ··· · -···--1· -- -···· -- ·
-1·--· · · . . . . . . . . . , ···· ,., · ···· \" -- - · ·· · ..

'

I

I

i

-···--··· ........ .
· · · -·- ·· .. \ ···· - -·-· 1

___ N_Tam_e_o_f_stati_·_on_._ _ _ _ L_a_ti_tu_de_._l Longitude.
0
I II

(.

Azimuth.
0
I
If

l,_i_ _ _

T_o_s_ra_n_·o_n__ _ _ / Back azimuth. l_D_i_stan_c_e_., _D_istan_c_e_. /Distance.
1

0

I

/I

I
1

I
/ "=indmillPoint ....·.....·.. \ ''-~ody ~slan~- .··· .·.· ··· ·. .
i "\"\ mdllllll

0

I

II

Metres.

Yards.

Nandna ·.····· ___ --· ·····.
Heath ··.····.············

37 36 44.38 37 31 12.21 37 28 36.87 37 26 36.07 37 19 54.83

75 54 36.93 · 75 56 49. 79 75 57 37 .14

t9 58 04 198 55 17

269 44 52 18 56 43 289 28 16 9 50 49 298 29 49 11 49 23 258313"2 12 44 47

31823.8
1000-l.0

34801.6 11596.2 33173.9 5004.7 34161.6 10387.9 26509.1 14599.3

Miles. 19.77

6.59 18.85 2.84 19.41 5.90 15.06 8.29

40 06 I 109' 189 50 30
1

Pomt....... · . . . . .

i Sandy Point·. . . . . · · · · . . · · · . .

303.15.4 4576.5 31238.6 9499.1 24240.9 13350.1

Bay Yiew ·······..·.·····. Naswaddos .···..··..····..
RQsEMARY ·················

I

118 41 10 191 48 3.'>

i Sandy Point................
\woifTrap ................. \Sandy.Point................

\ Windmill Point.............

755817.761 7R4119 / 19"2 4;3 34 76

oo 29.21' I-__ .. _ .... ____

._. __ _ .: .... ____ ... ___ .. _ .. _ _ ___ .... __ . ____ ... ___ ........ _. _. __ ._ .. .
.

COAST SOtYfH OF CAPE
HENLOPEN. Cape Henlopen .·.··.··.·..
Lewea Entrance ..·...·....

38 46 45.11

~-

04

4°l\ 55

· I
I

.
G.29

38 48 48.24 38 42 36.69 38 41 11.92
38 38 54.73

:: 11 32:41

\::::::::::::::!, __ :::::::::::::::::::::::::: .... :::::::::: :::::::::: :::::::::: :::::::::
\Cape Henlopen............. Lewes Entrance............
174 31 15 108 59 04 227 16 44 156 0.3 30 144 30 31 200 51 23

Burton's Tripod ············
Rehoboth Beach ···. _._ ·····

75 0918.641 2"20 48 06 I 164 15 58 75 04 03.73 75 07 13.34 75 05 53.24

i i Cape Henlopen .·····..·.··.
, Burton's Tripod ..·.···..··..
I

40 50 58 344 14 34
354 30 49
3&l 55 47

10122.81 11070.0 11904.0' 13017.9 103-29.7 8040.0 6236.9 7403.5 2335.7 7433.2 11200.41 879"2.3
68-20.5 8183.7

7.40 6.41 5.00 3.88 4.65 1.45 4.62

Angola ····················

j P.ehoboth Beach .·····..····. ; Burton's Tripod .······.·.·..

47 18 43 336 07 12 324 29 41 20 52 31

Long Neck .····.·········· , 38 37 26.65 i

~~~;ti; ne~ii-.:::::: :: ::: :l

i

2554.3 8128.i

"

~
~

United States Coast Sw-vey.-Geographical Positions. ,,§ection !IL-Coast South
Name of station. RehobothMarsh ··········· IndianRh·erlnlet. .··.···..

ef Cape Henlopen. Sketch C.

I

Latitude.

Longitude.

I
j
· I

Azimuth.

To station-

i Back azimuth. Distru:"e. \ Distance. Distance.
i

I
I

I
1

a

, ,,

o , ,,

o '

/1

38 38 49.43

75 03 53.62.

138 3619.55
38 !l5 !l5.20

I 75 03 18.74 I 173 0719 I 130 o9 30
75 0314.491 :;: ::; 75 06 10.491

915722 176 48 59

Angola ....···..·.·.··...... : Rehoboth Beach .·.·....·..·. 1 356 48 53 Rehoboth Beach.·.·.···..... 1 353 06 51 .Angola ..................... i 310 07 04 Long Neck ..·...········.·. / 311 48 32 Indian Ri·er Inlet ..·····...· , 355 42 10 Salt Works .......·......... i Long Neck ....··.···..··... ' 83 2-2 3.5 6 03 26

1

° ' " 271 55 17

j Metres.
1

I

4831.8 4400.2

I
I

---

Yaras. 5283.9 4811.9

Miles. 3.00 2.73

9079.9 : 7442.l i 5135.51 1371.3 / 4287 .41 3954 .2 3-:e27 .8 I 3173.0 1 2731.91 5891.l j 2006.5 1. 1918.21 2499.0 1885.31

99-29.5 8116.6 5616.0 1599.6 46SS.6 43-24.2 3529.8 3469.9 2987.5 6442.3 2194.3 2097. 7 273"2.8 2061.7

5.64 4.61 3.19 0.85.

s.lt Wod>L ··············
l\Iouth of White Creek .·.··. Burton's Island ·.·········.

g

138 35 19.12
1
1

~ ~g ~

2.66
2.46 2.01 1.97
1.70

38 36 43.56

75 04 55.531 310 45 52 34 51 56 75 04 27 .72 / 220 26 08 · I 1592638 75 03 08.53 75 04 13.94
1
1

Salt Works................. 130 46 55 Mouth of White Creek ...·. -11 214 51 10 SaltWorks .....·.·.·····... 40 26 54 Long Neck ............·.... [ 339 25 45 Salt Works .··.··.·...··.·.. 355 52 33 Laws ...·.·.··.·..·...··.·. 1 267 40 05 Allen...................... 39 19 19 Laws ·.·.·..·.···.·...···· · 1 1 349 48 35
Laws .·.....··.·....··..··. j 315 36 12· Holland's Hammock ..··...·. \276 30 30

1

Laws .·····.···········..· 1
1

1

38 34 27 .76

I

.
0

t:1

(')

3.66
1.25 1.19 1.55 1.17 1.78 1.04 1.08 1.67.
1).97
1..<\'l

.Allen ·······.············. , 38 34 30.28 Holland's Hammock .······.

175 52 37 87 40 54

i

i

38 33

27 .57
1

i i~ !~ :
135 37 03

Salt Pond Beach ..·.··.·.· · I 38 33 21.39 . 75 03

04.971

\ \ \ 96 31 13 · Hall's Beach ····.···.·..·.1\38 3-2 25.62 75 0-2 56.16 \\112 55 36 l~ '24 24
1i'.'I~

2863.5 3131.4 1 1680.6\ 1837 .9 1i3"2.5 '268-i.5
1.Wl'l.6 '2"300 .I)

Salt Pond Beach............ Ro1lauil's 1iammock. ·.. . ··..
Ra\\'s 'Beach . . · . · . . · · . · · · . . 'i!.a\t 1>=i\ 'Beacl>....... · · · · · .

352 55 30 315 23 40
l?A '29 1A
'&> ?.S ~

1894.6 2933.5
l'll\6 .6 ~\.'5 .'2

· · · · · · · · ·· ·· · · · · · · · ·

Zi!.

~ '2.1) .'l'-

'l'5

~ l)IL~l

'2\:A <;!.S 'M '21.'5 ~ ~

&itcd S.rates Coast Survey.-Geogroplucal Positions.
Name of station. · /

Section IIL-Coast South
To station-

if Cape Henlopen. Sketch 0.
'----i---Yards. . 8340.2 5127.6

Latitude.
O ' "

,I

Longitude.

.Azimuth.

/ Back azimuth. ( Distance. / Dlstance. fDistance.

I Holland ..········..······ · 1
Hall's Fishery ..········.·.

38 33 23.95

I 38
!
l
l

I
I
!I·

i 75 04 52.37

I

---------1 0 ' " Q ' "

1·

168 52 06 210 20 12 175 32 34 134 48 19 174 05 24 2-29 26 48 140 47 03 178 29 43

Neck .···.···...·.··... 1Long I Salt Works ....····.·.·.··..

I
1 1

I

0

'

"

348 5128 30 21 13

1· Mctre:.-1 I 7626.7 4688.9 i
1

I

.JJiiles. 4.74 2.91
4.32 2.55 3.09 1.96 2.49 3.21 3.00 1.91 2.31 2.69 3.46 3.47
~.!J2

3151L21 ! 75 02 52.15

Tunnel ·.···············.. j ""' "° 30

43.6~ z

; SaltWorkii ..···...·.··..... I 355 32 20 :\ Holland ....··....··...·.... 314 47 04
!,,

i

6957.8 \ 4102.l \ 4969.7 1 3158.3 !

7608.8 4485.9 5434.7 3153.8 4386.2 5644.9 5286.3 3359.9 4066.l 4732.0 6081.6 6106.2 5140.7 4971.3 3913.8 4032.5 5594.4 666S.6 6180.4
~35.0

75 04 31.23

Daisy liarsh ............... I 38 29 0-2.84 : 75 0-2 46.55

i i
I
. 1

i

1

I Hall'sFii!hery..··......·.... i
\Hall's Fishery ·..··.·... ·-··i
II

, Holland ..·.··.···..·.··.... ; 354 05 11 49 27 49

1

I Tmmel.. .··..·····.....·.· -i
I

I
.

'

320 45 58 358 29 40
0 02 53 55 48 38

4010.91 5161.9 1

Rodger .········.········. Fenwick .················.
Riley ...········.·······..
B1ig Knotil ··· : ·.········..

i

38 28 06.83 3S 26 42.55

75 04 31.40 75 0-2 41.70

180 0-2 53 235 47 33
134 20 54 178 26 37 2432826 204 29 46 191 44 19 117 48 59

Tunnel.. ........····..·.... Daisy llarsh ...·...·.... __ · -1

!

I

4834:0 3072.4 371EL2 4:1:i7.l

1

j I
I
/.

332522.041 750607.91 /

I DaisyMarsh .·.·..··...·.... ! IFenwick ...···.·····.··..·. I I Rodger .....··............. 1

i Rodger ..········..··..··.. I 314 19 46
358 26 34
633034 24 30 46

I
1

1

5561.2!1 5583.7 4700.81 4545.9

38 24 13.27

75 03 21.14

!Riley .......·..·...... '.····/
I Ilrig Kncts ..·.·..·...···... /
Wiglit -·················-·-/

I Fenwick................... 1

11 44 43 297 4716..

i

2.83

Wight .···..·.··.····.··.

38 23 27.67 i 75 05 41.65

170 OS 28 247 34 44
153 40 33
190 46 48

I Riley ...··.··.·.·.·.·.· ··--i 350 03 12 i Ilrig Knots .·...·......·... -1 67 35 11

3578.9 i 3087 .5 i 5H5. 7 6-')98.0
51l51.6

2.23 2.29
3.18 3.79 3.51 1.84

Beach House .·····.·.····.

38 20 58.98

75 04 08.16 75 06 0-2.14

! Wi6ht - ... - .....·.......... !

3.'33 39 35 10 47 18
5 03 09 69 19 50

Davis ···.······.·······.·

38 20 25.08

185 0-2 56 249 18 39

I

I Beach Hoq.se..... ·· · · · · · · · .

2958.2

United States Coast Surve'lj.-Geographical Pesitio11s.
Name of station.
.

Section IIL-Coast South of Cape Henlopen.
1
1

Sketch C.

----------:=----~ ------'------1
\ o ' " o
0 ' "

Latih1de.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

,,i~------ 1
I
0 ' "

/Beck azimuth. Distance.\ Distance. : Distance.
Metres. 1 l"ards. i 3lJo:.L4 4334.3' 2951 A \ 32'27 .6 \
11---- - - - 1

I

· Dromedaey .·.······.···.. 1 38 18 59.37 \

75 G5 08.01

2013045 153 33 32

i
I

[ Bea~hllouse ............... ; 21 31 22 Dam ........··..··.·.··.. 333 32 58

Mil~·

i
I 'I

. . ················· · i Quillmg 1 38 18 10.4~

7o 06 43.56

I

I

193 37 01 236 57 22
20-2 25 01

...··.·.······.··.·.· IDavis Dromedary ....·······.···..
i
I

13 37 27 56 58 :ll
2-2 25 37 334 06 26 280625 6-l 01 27 24 33 16 346 01 20

4271.9 2768.5

I

2-46 1.83

4671-6 I i 3027 .6 ! 4023.l

2.ro
1.72
2.29 1.31

Flat Mound .............. ., 38 17 09.07 : 75 06 ShipYard .·..···
1 381627.80

I
j

05.771

154 06 50

i Quilling.:····..··..··..·... 1
'.Quilling ....·.···..········ 1 ! :Flat. Mound ...··.····.····. .

Dr:nnedarv. .····..·······.· 1

1

3678.91 2Hl"J.6 3584.81 2!:KI0.2 j 4555.5 / 2ll50. 7 3'i6.9.9 4555.3 3993.S I 5266.1 · 3705.2 4738.8 5781.3 I 5960.1 \ \
\

i

2-29:).4 :

00 · · · · · · · ·

150753.05) 2080542 ) Zl4 00 21 75 07 23.63
75 09 31.67

Twin Hills ................

!

38 14 5-1.66

Powell ................... 1 38 14 2"2.~J
1

I

!

204 3'2 28 166 01 38
252 10 38 :u1 44 55

i Flat
1

I Twin Hills................. I
t

i Ship Yard ...··..·..·· ······ I
Ship Yard ...·.·····.··.···· l

~found

39'2fJ.2j 3171.6 I 4981.8 3'237. 7

2'.23
1.80
~-8.3

...···..·····... 1 i

I I
!

i.84

.
0

t; n

North Birch .·············. South Point Island .········ South Birch ..··.·········.

38 12 17.35
38 12 14.59 38 09 15.33

75 08 47.981 164 34 3'2 202 55 12

! i Powell
!
1

. . . · · . ·· . ··· ·. . · ·· . . 344 34 05 ! Twin Hills ..·..··.··.···.·. ! 22 56 05
I

.

I

72 11 57 .31 45 57

3575.9 : 4981.6 1 4367 .5 5758.l:l

2.03 2.83 2.48 3.27

i
l,

76 11 20.24
7510~

268 40 25 213 51 28
16~ 56 10 199 41 09

! Xorth Birch ·..············ -I
Powell · · . . . ·..··.·...·····

88 41 59 33 52 36

4051.9 i 5182.2 ; 6322.3 ' !X>17.8 699-2.4 7990.3 97;,3_9
9-23\).a

2.30
2.95 3.59 3.70

/O'S'/

Robins' Yarsb. .········ ~ ···
Green Run .·········.·····

38 09 11.98

75 14 33.14 \269 19 44 219 57 42 7a 11 aL\'l
.
1.l>3 4.8 ~ 1.\ro "" \.';}

~

/ South Point Island · · · . · · · · · . 1 34.2 55 27 ~ 'ortk Birch ...··...········ \ 19 42 00
South Birch ...··....·. _.·. South Point lBland .·······.· \

I

J

89 2-i 26 39 59 41

6394.1 no6.6
89\9.3 \ 8".IL7

3.97
4.54

I

Robins' 1"\.an;b. ··.··········· \ 33'3 4& 4.S \'l,onm 'B\'tcb. ················ \ 1.1; oo '.n

l7Ri'red Saaes Coast Suruey.-Oeograpnical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
0

Section DI.-Coast South ef Cape .Henlopen.
To station-

Sketch C.

I

Longitude.
0

Azimuth.
0

; Back azimuth. /Distance. . Distance. { Distance.

Big Ba.y

Po~t ·...· ··"· ···. \
I

,

38 04 56.52 ; 75 16 58.2\l 75 14 23.73

"

I .
I

: I

0

..'!Ietres.
7-176 .-1 '
800~.3

i

2i0 42 26 ~ 204 03 57 209 55 36 150 05 38 277 29 Z7 2J6 57 55 151 29 3-2 215 46 38
i

\ Green Run ....········..··.· I I Robins' )farsh ..··..·....·.· !

90 45 36 24 0526 29 57 10 330 04 03 97 32 15 26 59 08 3.31 28 13 35 48 07 86 2-2 31 56 52 26 314 or. 25 39 JO 20 314 05 17 39 10 54 59 53 3t 359 57 41 9-2 Z1 00 26 24 48 276 48 54 2-23 23 56 348 43 26 44 0;) 46

Yards. 8176.0 ' 9470.7

I

Miles. 4.65 5.3S

Pope's Island Beach ..·· ----\ 38 01 24.2S

!

Hardy's Hole Isla.nd .··· ---· i 38 01 52.73 : 75 18 56.51
!

I
;

l Big Bay Point ..·· --- _.··...

\Green Run ..··....····.·.··

75-19.5 ' 7440.2 6709.7 · 6357.6 6559.3 60-23.3 · 13286.0 1,2091.5 9786.2 98tiL2 9784.6 9Ba:l.8 8119.6 1()836.7 5307.1 1100-2.7 12176.4 7374.7 4-321.8 6:nu.1

82.'>5.9 8136.4 73-37.5 6952.5 7173.l 6505.9 14529.2 1322".2.9 10701.9 · 10805.8 10700.2 108:)5.4 8879.41 11905.4 5803.7 13016.5 13.'115.8 8064.8 5273.0 ' 6&;6.8

4.69 4.62 4.17 3.95 4.08 3.7-1 8.26 7.51 6.08 6.14 6.08 6.14 5.05 6.76

Lone&>me

Hill- ------ --

----l

37 58 45.79

i
I

75 16 48.12

Snea.d ·-·------- ---------·; 37 58 18.18 : 75 25 51.43
A.ssatea,,uue light-house ( ¥ane): Assateague light-house ( signal.) Wallop's Island ··.····..··. Taylor ·· ~ ·· -- . ____ ··. _____ Sheep-pen Flat .·····.····· .Assa woman Inlet ·.·······. _ 37 54 37 .2-2 37 54 37.27 37 52 25.04 37 52 3-2.34 37 57 31.03 37 49 58.95

i I

I Hardy's Huie Island .·. ____ .-I ! Pope's Island Bea.ch. ____ ._ ..
\Lonesome Hill .......··· ---l Hardy's Hole Island .·.·...·.

j P?pe'sisla~dBeach .·.···... : Big Bay Pomt _. _. ____ .·. _.· ,

rn

266 16 57 233 48 11

75 21 03.64 . 134 08 2"2 219 07 43 75 21 03.69 75 25 51.12 75 29 28.U 75 17 30.11
i

ii
;

i

d l5nea,. ····:· ·----- ···..... Lone.some Hill ...... _.......
n

.
n
0

0

!

. =

134 08 14 219 08 17 239 50 33 179 57 42 272 24 47 206 2"2 3-5 96 53 59 43 26 04

\ Snead .·. _· :· .·.··..... _··. Lonesome Hill ... _._ ........ 1

I Snead. ---· ·.·· ---- ..··..··
I Snead.----·--------------r

J

Assatllglle Light, (signal) ..· _

I ",.allop's Island ..·..·· ·---·-

3.20
7.39 7.57 4.58

I Snead ... __ - . -. - - - - . -- - .· - I Assateague Light, (signal)._ ..
I

75 28 49.54 ' 168 43 50 :!'kl (13 57

Taylor .·.·....··. --··-----Wallop's Island .············

3.00
3.90

=
-l cg

United States Coast Su1-i-ey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude. Longitude.
0

Section 111.-Coast Soutlt of Caye He11lape11.
To stationr Back azimuth.
I
0

Sketclt

c.
Mile.s. 4.GS 2.69
2.27 2.Jjs 3.10 2.3'2 3.03 2.02 2.97 3.55 3.04 4.56 3.22 2.37 3.16 2.78 3.34 3.17 3.49

Azimuth.
0

I

00 0

~

Distance. \ Distance. Dlstance.
Metres.

l
l

0

, ,,

, ,,

, ,,

Nack - · _··. _. __ .· - - - .··· - - ! 37 49 28.21 Meran - - - .···· - ····.·. - · . · Britnam ---- --·· ·.··..···. South Gargathy - · - - -·· - ··· · 37 47 45.05 37 46 55.07 37 45 20.21

75 31 42.59 75 30 29.70 75 3'2 48.73 75 31 50.46

210 04 07 257 21 54 150 43 55 210 40 49 198 54 45 245 37 06 203 52 09 15-1 00 44 245 25 24 210 41 2'2 164 11 3-2 204 13 57 208 26 08 272 06 11 150 31 23 195 55 33 208 51 00 260 50 01 136 24 17 195 47 36 'll'l 'la 18 'l\)\) au oc. .

Taylor··---------------·---' Assawomr.n Inlet._ - - _- - · - - - Nack--····-------··--··--· .Assawoman ..... __ ---- _- . -- . ·Nack--·-----··-----------·
J

30 05 29 77 23 40 330 43 10 30 41 50 18 55 25 65 38 31 23 52 59 334 00 cs 65 27 12 su 42 35 344 10 59 24 15 12 28 27 09 92 07 46 330 30 21 16 56 05 28 52 05 86 52 OS 316 22 40 15 48 07 3-2 26 23 S9 5'i!. 4.7

6559.6 4336.2 3645.8 4799.8 4990.6 373-Ll 4883.1
3'~53.4

I

Yards. 7173.4 4741-9

3986.9 5218.9 5457 .6 4083.5 5340.0 3;;57.8 5219.7 6242.2 534-!.3 801:3.9 5673.2 4162.4 5556.7 4895.5 5S72.6 5579.7 613'2.4 4933.2
5281.5 70Ui.9

~!Cran.-----------·-·--·--·

Memn ..... __ .__ ..··.. ···--· Brirnam ..............··.... South Gargathy .··..·...··.. Brimam .·......·..·. ···--· ""atson ---· .....·..·.....·. South Gargathy ..·..·.. - ·... ""atsou ...· -·-· ·...······.. ~farnmkan .. _.... - .. _.··.·. Jcrues ....... --·- ..···. --·· ~I~tomkan - .· - ·....·.·.·... Joynes .......·· ---···--·--· Cedar Island .. - ....·.·..... Custis ....... ··-·-·-··- ·... Cedar Island .·.·. ~ ...·. _...

rr..
t:;

\Yatson ....··.·.·········. ' 37 44 15.85
Matomkau -··· ·.·· -··- ··.·

75 34 47.80
75 33 53.42

4773.l 5708.4 4887.0 733'2.8 5187.8 5806.2 5081.2 4476.6 5370.1 5i02.3 5607.7

37 41 43.32

..

r

0

~

Joynes ·....·.. --·.-···--··, Cedar Island . - - ·.···.· - ·.·
I
I

37 41 47.83: 75 36 28.70

i
37 39 24.40
I

'

75 34 46.62 75 38 14.48 75 35 36.71
';
i

Custis ·········...·..···..

37 39 15.31 37 37 03.60
I

Horse-shoe··---·-···-----·
I

1111.m<>'ier .···· - ··········. ·\ 37 37 03.07

I

7;) 4.() 00 .13

Custis-··---······- ....

4511-1 \ 4.8'29.6
6-\59.5

2.00
3.00 4..01

\

li.Ql:Se-\IDQe · ~ ···· ~ ~····

Oi1ited States Coast Surz:ey.-Geograpiizcal Positions.
Nmne of station. / _ _ _ _ _ I_

Section IY.-Priinary Stations.
To stationBack azimuth.

Sketch IJ.
' I Distance.
i Distance.

Latitude.

I I

Longitude.
!

.Azimuth.

Jlomc'· fa'D

B.-, 1

~·:ti

I
0 , ,,

I
\ 0
I ,,

-0 , "

·---.
0 , ,,

I
I

Distance.
Metres.

'

~ ~; ~:~ \E. gii: ~:~ h;o· ;a· 43·0· -;;~,;>·n;;;: ::: ::::: :: :::::: .. ;;o. 21· 00:;·
I
0 29 19.82 i 2"24 12 03.8 \ Zil 19 00.l
0 39 2i.53 :;

!
1..

,
~
rards.

.--

iOe<i ": .. ii;;,;:;·
16865.7 1449-2.3

Roanoke

lfo.rshe~

.······... \ 35 48 44.59

North Base ............. South Base.................

···-1

I.... o:;;s
8.33 8.51 9.58 8.23

l

lJiiles.

Bodie's· Island, .Astronomical \ 35 47 31.30 Se&tion.

I
1

i/

I'
i

Mann's Point ···.·...··....

35 58 14.44
\~·:

0 31 23.83 i ,. : ··: # ·. r·j 0 24 26.C3;
I

i

···-----1
:m
49 50.3
3:';1~10.9

!J8 28 13.0 .Roanoke lfarshes ... - ... -··· 153 38 42.2 Nonh Base .......··.· _.·-··

I 278 2-2 17.5 . ! 15-122.6'
333 36 2-LS 1 13~2-3' 141 52 16.5 190 01 51.2 151 35 03.l 69 20 00.l

44 15 42.3 I 13418.0; 14Gi3.5 91 24 W.4 \ 13700.3 ! 149"'2.2

}() 03 u:l.9 Roanoke

Korth Ba>e .... _.. ···--· ... . ~Iarshes ..····. _.. . Tio:moke:'.\Iarsltes ....... _.. . lfaun's Point ..... --·· ..... . lfann's Point .......·...··.. Robert's Fishery .......··· _. Robert's Fisherr ...·.··.·... :Mann's Point . ."...... _..... . Roden .·..·...........·....

I Robert's fishery .·····.·... ;
Roden.................... Shellbank .·.·..····..···..

lOH'.6.1 no;; I. 7 17835.0 . 19503.8

I
I
I

1

6.27 11.0S 9.61 6.9;) 4.18 5.54 8.65 7 .17 3.69 5.3"2 1.97 7.76 7.87 6.12

35 56 06.08
36 00 10.93 i 36 03 20.93 i

249 15 54.8
3''2 ()8 48.8 32 14 33.1

i

15473.2 · 169-21.0 lll91.2 12238.31

i

0 2i 35.91 0 26 57.93

122 11 G2.7 I 212 12 41.61

6743.4 '. 8320.1

7374.4 9754.1

. .
0

~

(":>

~

·

15 51 40.5
3"24 49 13.4 350 4G 41.9

195 50 1L2 I 13931.3 14-1 50 49.7 : 11555.8 59"J-2.3 170 47 G3.9

i
i

15234.81 12637 .0 64:37.4'

Caroon's Point. .····.···...

35 57 23.77

0 23 0-2.18

233 03 3-1.2 :)Id 4;3 29.0 2U.3 11 17.9 26~ i);;! :>7.2

8576.2 9378.6 53 (l6 15.0 Roden ..... ··-··· ......... . 348;3_ 7 Robert's Fi~he1-y ........... . 13.31.U~ 3105_7 124\JJ.6 ' 13G59 .4 Shcllbank ........... _..... "'t--;!P,piff,;,;~ 28 13 36.3 lfann's Point .......··...... 12664.8 \ 1~49.8 .'

r

I l
I
I
i
I

I

Powell's Point ······.·.··..

36 04 18.83 E. 0 23 26.73

1

3'20 45 09.0 2 45 10.2 3';4 24 34.5 2,,~ 3.:3 2-.U

Roden. -· ...·...·.·..···... Caroou's Point. ..·· __ ...··.. Robeit's Fishery .........·.. Shellbunk .····..······.···.

140 182 174 108

47 44 2f> 4u

98628.0 . 10785.6 3.'i.1 14004.4 55.7 l ns(:G. 2 09.4 : 15i58.7 !. rn&s6.5 6100.5 557!3.5 26.4

I
I

I

7.95
9.48 3.47

I

United Stafc$ Coast Surrcy.-Geograpl1ical Positions.

Section IV.-I'rimary Stlltions.

Sketcl1 D.

Name of station.

Latitude.

Lo,.;hule.

I
!

I
.Ufurn<h.
To station~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-

I

I
!

: Baek azimuth. j Distance. \ Distance.

i

IDistauee.
I
-~~~

.

:
Tillet ..·· - - - _. - ··.··.· - - ·. \ East Durant Island ..·..·...

0

I

;;

0

f

;I

0

,

"'

3& 06 O-i.40 . E. 0 20 29.361

as-·~4: ~·£ s3 ~~7 . .::~I 35 58 34.51 i 0 17 35.74 i 258 46 06.2 ;+-7£- 1 1 2-~.as 197 23 rn.8 i 219 35 47 .5
~.~

346 34 :t3.9 315 3:-t 43.2

C'nrroon·s Pomt. ..···.·····. ' 166 36 Rudeu. .. . · . . . . .. .. ···· ·. . . 135 36 54.2 Roden ....··.··.. ····-- ·... Tiller ........··.. --·-·· .... Powell's Point .... _·.·. _·.·.

. .

I

0

'

Metres. \ 03.81I 15;!52.0 16494. 7 ;
"
1

Pear-tree Point · _·.······ - . i 35 59 05. 60 '

'

.;;

78 51 58_8 17 24 58.9 39 39 15.0
94 03 27.5
54 24 24.9

14530.2 ' 1?8~-8 137i7 .6 food6.8 I

i 153:?3.4 j 16757

l'ards. \ 18tl&3-1 16679.1 j

Miles. 10.24 9.47
9.51 9.02 8.56 8.50 13.75 12.05 8.37

.21

i

273 58 07.2 234 17 21.9

East Durant Islam!._ ···.·.·.

Tillet .. - - - . . . - . -- ........ .
Pt>ar-tree Point .. - ___ .·.· - .. 'fillet . . . . · . . . ... - . - ····. · Pear-tree Point ......··.·.. ·wade's Bluff ....... ··-· ·...

1369-2.6 14973.8 2"2144 . 0 I : 24216.0

i

I

"\Yade's Bluff ..··.. -·· ···.. : 36 08 13.3"2 ·E. 0 06 54.63 ! 351 54 29.S ·:-~.w Ol, Jo,3(t 2S<l 58 10.8 Reed's Point ·· - ··..· _·· _.
Palmetto .········. _·.·· __ . SteYensou's Point . _·· ____ ·.. Brick House __ ·· _. ___ . ·- __ Batt's GroYe .· _···········

,,

171 55 2G.2 101 ()6 11.1

i 1'049.6 ' 212-20.8 2075().0 i 14739.1
I

36 G5 42.58 W. 0 01 31.33 : 309 0-2 09.7 ~~ ;.,1 249 47 44.3 ~:-s Ii
35 59 42.31 E. 0 cr2 33.47
: 1

129 08 03.S : 19405.J 69 52 42.5 i 13478.0 17C50.9 12&31.5 12791.6 10957.6:
!

18&14.9 2-2698.l 18646.3 13868.1
139B8.5

itr'.~
12.89 10.59 7.8J 7.94 6.80

202 30 43.8' 'Yade's Bluff ..·.· _.·...·... ' 2"2 33 2'::!.6 151 07 45.6 Reed's Point .............. . 331 li5 21.5

i
I

36 0618.21 ,E. 0 00 00.00:
1q.o:t

35 59 12.20

! "'(, 'w.o

ll

=-""~

342 30 51.9 i Pahnet O-·······--········· 251 64 :J:l.!f1 Wade's Bluff..·...··.·.. ·-··

162 32 22.2 71 08 37.4 357 13 31.0 35 57 12.5

11982.9
13172.l 22518.2

01 08.05

~177'1344~7
215 52 28.4

! Wade's.Bluff.··.·. _.........

i Reed'sPoint................

36 04 04.23 W.O 11 47.41 299 17 49.3 Brick House .·.···.·.····.. '. 119 24 18362.5 \ \ 2Z"J8 49 26_0 \ l{ec<l.'s~oint ........................ \ 7t3 55 28 .. 8 '; 15707 .5
""" ;,9 03 ·.\8

I

i 05.3 i

12045.1 ;w59Ll

l

7.48 12.79
11.4'.l

20080.6 17177 .3
18670 . .\ 1\f.!1)1 _7

9.77
10.fil a.79

Laurel l'oin.t ·········· ·

'-w .o 12 29 .60 \
\ \

200 1.\-2 i-2.u \ 1>.rlekRouiie ··.·. __ ····· _··. \\
l&. '.!9 ~-l \ 'Batt'i>GW'Oe ·· --···--·····-·

89 09 13.0 \ 17072.9 9323.8 \; ~ U.9

l77u/ed Sta/es (/(}Q.s-/ &.-rrey.-Geo.,,,o-ropniCa/ Po.n/ion.s-.

Sec/wt IF:-.Pninory Stari(J?1s.

.Sketch .J).

-Name 9f station.

Latin:de.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

i Back azimuth. ! Distance.
I . '
I ;

I

i

I'
I
i

Distance. Distance.
i

I
i

0

Leary ········.·.·· -- ···.· Sleepy Hole .·· -- -·-· .·· - · Sleight ··.········.·······. Sandy Point------· ........

36 01 2'2.97 35 58 42.49 35 57 33.92 36 00 2"2.09

' "

Iw.o o ... 16 23.29
0 14 07.41 0 18 00.47 01927.07

0

234 13 54.4 31;6 16 58.4 199 27 17.6 145 28 54.4 199 00 53.6 250 04 56.4 2-17 48 05.6 :3.17 16 55J! 290 57 03.4 258 2'2 27 .6 2'27 19 21.7 275 42 41.6 12 14 u1.2 30-1 50 2-1.9

."

I I
Bart's Grove ..·. _____ ··· --Leary--------·----·--- .·..

0

Bart's Grove ...·..···· _.·... : 54 16 36.7 LnurelPoint ..··.···· - -- ··. - I 126 19 15.8

' "

Metres. i 8507.3 I 7261.2

i I

Yards. 9303.3 7940.6 11500.8 6565.0 8165.6 679iJ.4 5434.3 6144.3 9376.5

!Jfiles.

5.28 4.51 6.53 3.73 4.63 3.85

-I

\

19 28 3.<L9 ' 10516.8 325 27 34.5 6003.3 19 01 50.7 70 t.'7 13.3 67 49 53.7 157 17 46.1 lll 00 10.9 78 26 2'2.7 47 22 26.0
:

Lean· ...·....····..··..... 1 S!e£:py Hole .···..·····..... Leary ·......··.....·...... Sleight .... _.··.····... · ··· - . Sleepy Huie .·.··....·...... Sleight .·.·.··..··.·....···. Sandy Point. ....·. __ ....·..
f:,:mdy Point .·· _·.. _·· __ .·.. ::\faekay's Creek ....·......·. Sleight .........·. __ ..· _··..

7467.0 6:W9.4 4969.3 5618.6 8574.2

rn

Mackay's Creek .·...· -- · -- . Hornblower's Point .·.···...

36 56 27.13 36 00 42.13

0 24 40.85 0 23 32.85

10-241.7 : 11200.0 10637 .3 ; 116:37.3
I

I

I

I

3.C8 3.49 5.33 6.36 6.64

I

.

.
0

t::1

(')

~

Williams ······ --- _·······. Capeheart ..··· - ..·····....

I 35 56 11.2.'.i !

I

95 45 06.1 6185.1 19-2 13 27.3: sv41 .a 124 53 39.5 101-15.8 31 07 08.9 81 39 36.9
?2 38 4!J.3 ' I 141 59 50.8 : 123 1)9 13.9

6763.9 8793.p 110!J5.2

I

3.84
5.00 6.3tJ
6.06 2.Hl

0 26 53.90 0 29 43.66

211 05 10.2 Homblower's Point. .....·.·· 251 3:3 13.8 : ~.fackay's Creek .......··..
I

9749.8 3370.3 D73-'l. i 6iJ:15.9 9'.i59.3 9300.8 8537.l 10252.4

'

Hl662.0 I 368.5.6 I
I

l
I
!

35 59 07.79

2:;2 3.5 0-:?.3 3:!1 58 11.1 303 C6 15.l

;

Hornhlower's Point ...···.··. \YiHiams .. __ - .. - - - - .. . -- ... -~Iacliay's Creek ·.··.....··.

lf£41.2

6.04
4.29 5.63
5.71 5.30

~ii~:~
;

Black Walnut Point. ···

36 00 12.01 w.o 29 42.43

1

264 14 31.J Hornblower's Point ..·...···. 330 20 46.6 Williama .····. 312 3.'J 25.0 ; :lfuckay'sCreek.:::::: ::::::

84 JS 08.4 ' 150 2"2 2.5.6 132 33 ~2.1 ;

lOJil.l i 9335.91 11211.7 l

6.37.

~.

00

~

United. States Coast Surrey.-Geogropltical Positions.
.X aUle of station.
Laritulle.

Section IV.-Albemarle Souncl.
To station-

Sketch D.
l
'1
\

,--c-~1--o-.,--,-,
Ea~t

' l
I

Longitude.

i
J
l

Azimuth.
0

!
/

i
!

i
Distance. 'Distance .

: Back azimuth. Distance.
' "

-i---,--,,-l
1
1

I

0

:~e~~~s.

Ch"w:m..............

36 ()2CS.01

1

w.o

27 5-1.54

.ALi3DL\RLE sm:~D.

lfau1cYl"er ·················.

I 35 58 43.56 [E.O 1910.83 I . I I Korth Ri>er Pgint ....·.··.. / 36 09 47 .4.t I 0 16 50.64 I
J

I
i

i

·

/

l

29.1 5d 83.9, Hm'!lblower'sPoiut .......... : 112 01 10.8 :!;)·> i'7 49 6 : '" ir · r~ o· ·r :i 3r ~g:s; ma~~n~~~i;~r·i;~~~~~·.::::::,: 2i.~ u~ 5~:5

04

J

9-2 28 35 I::3:l 13 08
3.~6

Pear-treePoint. ·. ~ ··..·.··. 272 22 20 Tillet ..............·....... 1 , 8 13 f>9

1

1utiv.8 l 77'.!i.O 11 '!JD 3 12131

4~;~:6 I /

\-1-·a-rd-s-.- - - - Mile.s. ! 4.44 6.Si.l .s 4:399.9 2.78 9.97 8.52 14.54 12.90 5.83 11.28 6.79 13.50 11.62 14.15 7.90 13.90 11.54 6.64

I
i.

HlD5S.5 i 17558.9 137·'7 3 : li'>llll.tl

-. I

' I '

I
·

32 21 39 52 55

I

1\estDur:intisland ........ j 35 57 34.72 ·

I
I

.

0 14 27.9.21 0 10 24.53 0 19 2"2.03 0 15 07.48 0 08 03.39

107 23 46 2il!) 54 49 260 49 16 224 05 13 93 00 40 45 44 31 75 36 28 26 23 13 3.'i7 54 36 261 59 27

j Pear-tree Point ............ ·I 21'3 16 44 ! East Durant Island ..···.·... 176 53 21 I I j Pear-tree Point ............. ! 287 20 16 \Tiller. ..................... [ 29 58 21

23407. l / 25597 .2 20709.8 j' 22713.3 9332.91 18127.1 10941.8 20174.2
1
I'

rn
' .t::l. 0
p

102G0.9 19::323.3 11965.6 23776.3

Long Shoal.. ··.........·.. 1 35 57 38.09
East Xo~th

I
j

1

l Tillet. ............... ······i
i I Wade's Bluff .....··.·.····.
! Pear-tree Point .....·.
I

i E~st Durant Island .......... i

80 53 29 44 11 08

.

~

.

R.J.~r .......... 1
I 1

. EastPa~quotank .·..··...·. 1

i I 36 09 56.19, I
36 07 42.08

Wade's Bluff .......·....... ! 272 53 19 [ Pear-tree Poiut .........·.. 225 33 07

·I ······1!

18709.3 I 20459.9 2"2787 .71 24917. 7

255 3138 206 19 19 82 U3 37

2'2~:6.21 24469.9
18518.l l 20316.5 10itJ2.3 11703.7

12720.0

13010.2

West Pasquotank .····...·. i 36 09 08.01 Da>et!port ..···..···.···

..\\3:)
I

j

j
59 31.41 \
1)7

I East Pasquotauk ...·...···.. 1 l

i Pear-tree Point. ....·...·... j 177 54 52

I
I

0 06 54.80

"F\atty C1:ee'&. ·· ···· ···· ····

~

179 58 50 132 07 2\l
<J 51'> W ()\', ~~ 4A

\ 'Yatle's Bluff .............·. \ 3-59 &S 50 \ Reed'sPoint ..·............. \ 312 C2 2"2
\\1'a\metto ·.·..············ 18\l 5" 5" 1'\.eei\';, Y·:.\n" ···············\ 'M\'. '.!.<J lo

45J'\?. ;\B. 0 04 11 .1\\

J

16::JS5.6 \ 1759\).7 }1'{)69.4 '\ 18336.i>

9.99
10.6()
9.'39
5.91

151~.4

165?.S.5 <a<.l<J.l \ 104.\l<J.8

----------!-' -,, -0
Leigh's l!ills.·····.······· _
~

Name of station.

(

Latitude.

{ Longitude.
J

/
1

I

35 59 27.55

' fE· 0 03 21.99 l
,

o

'

n

- - - - -I
0 ' " )

Azimuth.

I
i
I

To station-

I
,

Back azimuth. / Distance.
0 ' "

I

I

Distance. /Distance.
Ya~~-

Ct

18.5 11 26 · 147 35 56

i Ree<hPomt..-------·

Flart.!Cr~eL--------------

Ship Point.················
Ea.st Little River .········· _
Jacoek's Point .·······.···.

35 59 40 62 \

I
i

0 01 13.60 \ 197 07 08 159 42 18

i

j Fla~ Cr~ek....·... ---- ·.·. !

···---1

5 11 58 327 33 03

A!etres. 1 1?414.9 t 13693.2

j

168.':it.3 14974.5 17106.9 13008.4 6308.5 15609.J 2362.2 2614.8 9454.8 1609'.2.6 16766.1 13212.5 14942.3 15393.0 20518.3 16536.5 17025.9 15945.6 13831.6 10040.61 5655.2 16397 .I

Mili;_s. 9.?7 8.50

17 08 56 ReedsPomt ................ 1 339 40 41

\ 15643.2 · 11895.3
5768.7 ·14273.5 2160.0 2391.I 8645.9 14715.6 15331.6 12082.0 13663.8 14076.0 18762.7 15121.6 15569.I 14581.2 12648.2 9181.4 5171.3 14994.1

9.71 7.39 3.58 8.87 1.34 1.49 5.37 9.14 9.53 · ~ 7 .50 8.50 8.74

36 07 23.59 iE. 0 01 42.85

I
J

57 20 50
354 57 15

I Reed's Point. _______ ···- ----1

\ I 36 06 58.35 [W.O 01 :W.81 304 56 04 ) ! 12 23 57

I
!

I !

i PahnettO------···----·-··-·i
Stevenson's Point ...... -···-Reed'sPoint ................

237 18 as 174 54 45
124 56 45 192 23 45

i

Harvey's Xeck ·.····.······ Westcott' s Mill ············ AleDnder's l\lill.·.···..···· Barrow.···················

36 05 24.441

0 07 16.27 0 00 27.46

266 15 52

j
35 59 14.02 35 58 25.94

: 3"21 11 30

Reed'sPoint ...... ----·--·-·I 86 19 15 Brick House .... ·-----·····-\ 141 15 07 Harrey'sNeck.............. Reed'sPoint...... ·.···. ··.. Harvey'· Neck.............. Reed'sPoint................ 318 05 41 352 23 13 340 43 09 17 03 29

!

i 138 09 41 I 172 23 50
j

I
I

I
1

0 04 16.18 j 160 44 55 j 197 01 52 0 1132.24 0 04 56.53 0 10 54.52
: 1

36 04 49.481

303 34 49 263 44 12

BrickHouse ········· !'·.···. Reed'sPoint.... ··..·. .····.
Barrow......·..·.··.. ····-Reed'1Point.......... .·.·..

123 40 56 83 50 06 3'J...O 26 47 20 38 31

11.65 9.40
9.67 9.05 7 .85 5.70 3.21 9.31

Bun Point .··············.· i 35 58 19.81
Bull Point .·········.····. · \ 35 57 16.12

1'

I

I J.10 30 39 I 200 36 30
173 59 41 257 37 31 100 57 51 154 45 48

II

I

Batt's Grove................
Run Point..................
Bull Point.................. Batt's Grove................

35.3 59 10
77 41 01 280 55 52 334 43 IS

Mill Point" ················ \ 35 56 44.25

lW.O 07 31.94

tJnited States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station.

Section IP.-.Albemarle Sound Sketch D.
To station-

Latitude.
0
I

I

Longitude.
0
I II

I

Azimuth.

i B~ck azimuth.
0 '

) Distance. \

Distanc~..
l'ards. 149'24.6

Dista.Jil()e.

~---------:-----ti

1----------,
0
I "

:----I--u

Nuon .·· ·-· .·······..··.. Buniluun ·······.····.····.

36 06 14.2$ 36 06 03.20

w.o

03 53.02

342 2'2 3$ 73 12 11
79 08 2'2 346 40 47

I·Bric~ ~ou~e
'

.·...··········· l\ 162 24 15 Haneys:Neck ·············· 253 10 11

1

.Metres.

13647_6 5310.6
6328.9 13016.2 9973.4 12580.7

.Milei;, 8.47

5807.5
69'21.0 14234-1

3.29
3.93 8.08
6.20 7 .8"2

0 03 07.79
0 24 50.59

., Harrey'sNeck ...........- ·· , 259 05 56 Brick House ................ , 166 41 58

Edenton... _·.....· _..·.··. Edenton Court-house..······
Bluff Point..·····.········· Benbury.··· _·······.····.· Smith's :Mill ······ _. _······

36 0-2 46.95
36 03 27.45 36 01 3-!.13 36 03 21.531
3.5

47 23 23 14 13 09
41 08 15 11 30 48
310 04 05

0 25 04.6'2
0 16 09.86 0 14 16.58
0 18 34.95

I CapPheart. ............. " " I
Williams ............. ··"··

Capeheart .··...···········. · 227 20 29 Williams .................. · 19{ 55

:u

10906.9 13757.9

05 3"2 191 29 44 I 2-21

10623-0 11617.2 13719.G ' 1500-2_9

6.00

6L52

t:;
0

234 49 27
40 3.5 37 341 2'2 36

Lr.urel Point ......... , ·. """· l:lO 06 15 Batt's GroTe ..··.········... 54 52 0-2 Bluff Point ..····.··.· ,. ".. I LaurelPoinr.... ··.· ···. ·... 220 34 31 161 23 39

7209.8 8034.4
4358.6

7884.4 a786.i 4766.4 9177.0

4,48 ~ 4.99_
2.70

839l-8

4.21

s1

12.25

I

1G7 25 17
203 04 56

; Sandy Point. ·····...··..··· ! 347 25 46 I Leary ...· ., ·· ,., ··.··.···. i 23 Oo 13

I
!

!

Lewis Island ···············
Sleight's :Mill ··········.·..

3.5 58 20.46 3.5 57 34.69

0 15 19.05
0 17 04.27

121 10 12 164 03 2'2 145 18 3"2

Anni.stead Fishery .········

"'"' ,._.,

~-·"

188 17 14
16"'

i Leary .·.·..·..····.··..·.· I Sandy Point...... . · · · · . .· . . 1
Leary ....··.········..··.· 1

\ Sandy P<·int ···.··.···...·.. J 301 07 47 1 344 0-2 44
3"25 17 08 8 17 38

i

I
i\ 1

6000.9 8407-1

I

6-562.4
'9193_7

7259_0 I 5856-61 62C3.1
7116.1 \ 8470.4 '(G3.'.3..1

7938.2 6404_6

I

4.50
3.63.

3.90
6b71.0 7781.9 \ 9262.9
8347 .3
4.~

\

156 08 43
200

w

4Z

Hornblower's Point ...·.····. \ 336 07 22 \ &nd.1 I'ow~ ···. ".. · · · . .. .. ~o <J7 '\4

5.26

'\-7'\

N - of·""""-

I !
1
I

L.ntwle.
0 '

rr ·-Blu1£Pomt(2)1848 ·.·····. l_
: Miles'

{~. ~'t~ :,4~1\.tt-~

- PASQGOT.!li,K RIVER.

+·"1"° 7(, 11 ~If.

,,'~-

I JI __I,--____
Loog;mdo. Amnoth. / To ""<looo ' ,. o ' "

&<k """""'· lTu<M"·

!

I IDYbm~
n;,l,.."·

I

O

'

"

J-Ietns. / Yards.
5137.21 5617.9 12889.6 1 14095.7

11-Iilu.
3.19 8.00

36 1143.34 ;E. 0 06 48.841338 43 24 £" l-:~84 48 17
36 12 3-LlO

Mill----·------·---·:,,

r
I
1

WestPasquotank.--··-----East Pasquotank ..···. -----, West Pasquotank ·. --------: BluifPoint(2)1848--------BluifPoint(2)1818.-------Miles' Mill. -- .. ·---- - · - - -- .

158 44 07 104 53 11 190 0-2 20 242 2101 173 56 51 131 18 2-2
16 49 3"2 88 06 19
353 44 38 63 39 10

0 CS .(8.43 0 06 29.231' 0 05 50-47

10 fl'2 46 62 2'211

6450.61 3:)12-4
4644.0 4627 .2 3344_9 4447 .8 45.'i7.5 3326.6 4762.5 6073.2

1

7054.2 3687-9 5078.5 5060.1 3657.9 4864.0

4.00
2.09

Miller'sPoint-----·-··--·-·i 3614 13.17 I 1

1 '

1 '

353 56 40 311 16 59

I

Blufi"Point (1)------- ..··.. 1 36 1229.30 1
1

196 49 09 268 04 34

Miller's Point .·..·····.· - - .. )files' Mill ·· -..········· - - ·
)filler's Point .····..·..··... .Miles' Mill ..· _·.·····.··· _·

2.07 2.76

mmrPoint(2)1846--------i

361146.191

o 06

4911

173 44 49
243 38 00

Wade'sPoint_ _____________ I 36 09 21-63 Pocoson Point (1). __ . ____ ..

i

4983.9 3637 .9
5208.1 6641.5 7666.5 9457 .2 5415.5 5387 .3 '
4903.3

0 07 56.41
0 IO 04.4!J

! 36 11 24.271
! l
j

I

159 19 29 Hr.! 21 13 40 15 07 97 53 45 71 53 49 115 J6 31 210 52 48 164 00 43 290 21 07 233 24 18

Blu.ff Point (2) 1846 . - ··.· _. _ )files' Mill .....·...·.. - ....
Wade's Point .............. . Bluff Point (2) 1846 _·····. - .
"Wade's Point.._ . _····..·.·. Bluff Point (2) 1846 .···· - . - )files' llill ............ - ... . Bluff Point (2) 1846 ····. -·-Bluff Point (I)- ······ - ······ Miller's Point ···············

339,..18 49 12 21 43
2-20 13 51 277 51 49

4952.2
49-26.4

Pocoson Point (2) ···· ·----·'

36 10 32.39 j
I

0 12 23.04 ,
0..07 16.30

i

. j

251 51 11 285 13 13 30 53 41 344 00 27 110 21 58 532534

1011.5 , 8648.0 '
4483.8

!
2.78
1.53 1.48

Bank's Point __ ---·-- ·····. \ 36 10 29.26 Harvey's

!

2466 .4
2379 .5 3983.1

2697 .1

Mill ........... -·· ji

\

36 12 56.16 ;E. 0 04 21.15

260-2 I 4355 8

2.48

United States Coast Survey.-Geograpliical Positiom.
Name of station

Section IV.._Pasquotank Rit-er.
To station-

Sketch D.
Distance.
Miles. 2.39 2.39

I

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.
0
I

Back azimuth. , Distance. Distance.
0
I

\
0
I

,,

0

oole's Point ·······.·····. ll's :Mill ·················

36 13 53.85 E. 0 03 56.90 36 15 19.54 36 15 10.84 36 lG 48.76 36 15 49.89 0 05 24.57 0 03 10.91 0 04 06.84 ; 0 01 46.52 0 01 38.30
I

"

312 33 57 261 05 07

"

,.

Bluff Point (1) .·.···..······ Miller's Point ···.····.·····. Poole's Point----·-- ·······. Miller's Poi.Rt. ·············. Poole's Point. ·············. Bell's ID!l .····.·····.·····. Glo·er's Point ·..·········.· Bell's Mill. ..·...····.····.. Glowr's Point ··.··········. Dozier's Mill ··············· Brick House Point ·.·······. Dozier's Mill ··.···········. Anson's Point ...···.··.····. Brick House Point --- ··· ---Cobb's Point---·----- ·····. Anson's Point .·············· Hospital Point .············· Cobb's Point ··..····.·····. Forbes' Mill. ············.··
R-0sp'ltal P-0\.nt ··············

39 39 15 321 42 35 334 10 31 265 2j 37

.

13:2 35 04 81 06 37 219 38 23 141 43 14 154 10 58 85 24 56 204 48 54 144 48 11 119 44 52 62 37 10 175 51 33 105 23 53 84 30 57 134 32 38 147 17 34 10-2 40 18 71 49 03 114 00 49 121 3'2 40 101 l>l 4S

Metres. 3851.8 3&>0.2

Yards. 4212.2 4210.4

3430.3 2605.9 2636.3 3347.3 3325.4 3365.5 2426.1 3944.1 2842.0 3844.4 2448.4 3707.5 1085.9 3099.1 8S7.1 1565.0 1318.5 2009.5
I

3751.2 2849.7 2883.0 3660.5 3527.2 3680.4 2653.1 4313.1 3107.9 4204.1 2677.5 4054.4 1187 .5 3389.0 970.1 1711.4 1441.9 2197 .5
o\U.6

.2.13 1.61 1.63 2.07 2.06 2.09 1.50 2.45 1.77 2.39 1.52 2.30 0.67 1.9.2 0.55 0.97

Glo>er's Point------------D ozier's Mill ······ -------B rick House Point .········

I 24 49 27
324 47 25 299 44 03 242 35 47 355 51 28 285 2"2 25

i
,
An son's Point ··············
36 17 21.86

c obb's Point------------ ··
,Ro~ital Po!pt ··.······ : .....
F orbes' Mill ···············
Elizabeth City Market Signal
""E.U=."b,.U,. C\ts C1>'1rt,-\>l)""-"' ·

36 17 14.26 E. 0 00 00.63 j 264 29 59 314 31 36
.~ ~3;90

.

.

·.. , w,o
.....

00 22.88

... . . .

327 17 20 282 39 06 251 48 43 294 ()() 15 3()1 3'2 13 ~l 51 Ol

36 17 34.9'2 36 17 57 .W

0 ()() 56.66 0 01 41.70
IV<.\) \)1. $

0.81
1.24
\).'l

-.w. 1.1?, 00 .\'Sl

.Y.\

------ ........... ----

~'.&...t 'i!.~ ------ ---- ---- ------ ---- ---~·

mu ·.\

thzded S.ta.tes Coad Suroey.-Ueogroph:caE .Posin07ts.
Name of station. Latitude.

Seaion IF:-.Perquimons .Ilicer.
To station-

Sketch D.
Distance. Distance.

!

Longimde.
1f

I

.Azimuth.
0

cc-:~ ";> 1t .{t"". .. '"" +.fP i '"I ; mount' a Point ············· 36 07 14.24 :W.O 09 24.15

PERQ~ONS~

0

·

,,

r ,,.~ "- ~~
0 08 36.34 0 11 00.01

',;._jb

,_/.f.Cf"f,

,

I '

I
I
I

Back azimuth.
0

I

Distance.
Metres.

"

,

"

Yards.

.Kales.
2.89 5.27 1.23 3.32 1.91 2.24 2.34 0.88 1.20 1.62 2.45 3.62 1.38 3.10 0.90 1.41 1.47 1.43 1.48

316 36 06 2o"2 33 07 37 01 54 338 02 20 308 54 16 275 33 34

Harvey's Nook .·.····· -·····\ ,. 's ·.········.··..·.·.. Naon

136 37 22 10'2 36 22 158 03 07

4656.5 8484.7 1984.9 5357 .1 3080.5 3609.0 3775.9 1428.4 1938.5 2613.5 3957.2 58'Jl.3 2236.1 4995.5 1452.9 1423.0 2"265.4 2358.5 2-298.2 2388.4

5092.2 9278.6 2170.6 5858.3 3368.7 3946.6 4129.2 1562.0 2119.8 2858.0 4327.4 6376.9 2445.3 5462.9 li58.9 1556.2 2477.4 2579.2 2513.2 2611.9

Canaan Cove"···· ·····.···. GnlS8Y Point ·············.

36 08 05.65 36 08 17.02 36 07 51.75 36 08 37.15 36 10 38.24 36 10 30.64 36 11 03.55
'

I Bl I 217 OJ 26 j ount ' a p. omt ·.···········. :

Harrey's Neck ·..····.·.· --·

i
I

Blount's Point ·.···· - ...·· - .1 128 55 12 Clllllllln C"ove ··.····...···· · 1 95 34 59 Blount's Point ·········· · - · - i 107 50 26 56 57 30 Grassy Point ·········

' Halsey Bay, ··... ----·····Robbins' Point ············· Old Neck ······· --- ······.

o 11

47.90 I 287 49 01 236 57 01

I

····--!

0 12 41.571 316 11 43 283 43 09 0 13 35.27 0 15 04.26 0

l
I
I

Halsey Bay ············. -·-. j 136 12 14 Grassy Point .······· - - ·· · · · - i 103 44 09 Robbins' Point .············. \ 160 13 22 Grassy Point .······...······ i 138 17 30
I

340 12 50 318 15 59 263 58 28 314 25 51 30'2 28 17 44 :n 41

I

Barrow ·········.········.
Skinner's Fishery ··········
Ferry Point .·..··········.

I 36 11 33.53 ;w.o 15 51.181 328 49 51
-1.fil

1~ 24.251

! I

Old Neck ·····..·.····.···· I 83 59 21 Robbins' Point. .. - ······· - ·. I 134 27 15 Old N eek ··.········ - ···· - . I 122 28 46 Barrow ····..·..········.·· l 2"24 31 18 Barrow ....···..···.·..·· 148 50 19 Skinner·s rishery ·.········. ! 113 04 07 Jacock's Point ··············
I

Preliminary Base-South End

LITTLE RIVER. C.-VW1 ~ ==- ?t.a....~~

36 05 44.83

~w.o 7C, fl ~.'fl.t 01 26.181
1

293 03 15

--1

I

o.ss

I

189 38 ()() 244 28 54

St.eveosw·11 Point ···········

9 38 09 64 29 44

United Statu Coa.$t Survey.-Geograpkical Positions.
.
Name of station.

. . ·-1

Section IV.-Littie River.

Sketch D.

'

..
Longitude. Azimuth.
0 0
I II

Latitude.
0

Preliminary Base-North EndI 36 06 27 .38

I

I

II

I w.

0 01 41.97

343 14 55 276 19 05 62 48 14 4 39 :15

.---=-i

I
1

To station-

I

Back azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
0

, ,,

South end of base .·········· Steven.son's Point ..··..···.· Jacock's Point. .······.··... Stevenson;s Point. .······..· J acock's Point .·······.·····
Mill Point .·.··.·····.·.··..

163 15 05 96 20 05 242 47 34 184 39 36 191 31 21 129 37 0'2 144 10 41 Ill 56 48 2092519 160 20 44 146 IO 17 86 36 34 174 51 31 133 51 44 137 44 24 104 29 43 194 54 31 130 IO 36 129 47 23 1584102

Metres. 1369.5 2565.7

Yards. 1497.6 2805.8

Miles. 0.85 1.59

Mill Point ...···········.··
Greaves' Landing .········· Newby's Landing ···········

36 07 30.9'2 E. O 00 07.31 36 OS 11.09 36 OS 49.33 36 09 33.25 36 09 '30.16 36 10 28.37 36 10 44.48 36 11 14.27

2195.9 2"248.3 2"'.287 .9 1941.7 4218.6 3154.6 1554.3 5069.6 1515.0 1609.7 1801.6 2452.1 3095.2 1983.2 950.3 219-2.7 3327 .7 1753.0 I

2401.4 2458.7
~

1.36 1.40 1.42 1.21 2.62 1.96 0.97 3.15 0.94 1.00 1.12 1.52 1.92 1.23 0.59

w.o

00 52.52

11 31 32 3093627 324 09 43 291 55 39 29 25 37 340 20 04 326 09 57 266 35 56 3..'14 51 27 313 51 02 317 43 35 284 28 58

250-2.0 2123.4 4613.3 3449.8 1699.7 5544.0 1656.8 1760.3 1970.2 2681.6

0 02 49.57 0 0-2 19.02 0 03 23.32 0 03 29.77

Jacock's Point ..···..·.····· Greaves' Landing ..···.··... Newby's Landing .····.·.···· Jacock's Point ...·.········· Newby's Landing ···.···.··.. Banks ...·····.······.····. Birdsand .···.············· Banks ...··.········..···.· Birdsand ············.···.. Long Point ..····...·······. Deep Creek Point .·········· Long Point. ....··········..
Long Point. ....············ Deep Creek Point ···········

Banks ·...···...···..·····
d .····...···..····.

Long Point ················

D eep Creek Point ··········
TruebloOd's Point ·········· lfixonton .··.···········...

.

0 04 46.62
,. .

,·.
\

...

338:1.8
2168.8 I039.2 2397.9

..

~

0 04

36.831

14 54 36 310 09 58

J.rn
2.07 l.09

\

36 11 37 .46 ~.o

os

12.12 \ 309 46 23 338 40 47

3639.l
1917 .0

Uni'ted States Coast Suroey.-Oeograpniad Positions.
Name of station.

Becti<m fP.,__Allz'gatw .llt'ver.
To station-

Bketch ./),,,

Latitude.

I
II

Longitude.

I
I
i

Azimuth.

Back arimuth. Distance.
·

IDistance. I{Distan~e.
1
I - · · . ---

0,"
/""
:_<' :

0 , ,,

;--0--,-,-,-:---~-------!
1i2 52 17 23-1 22 23 80 59 19 107 42 05 202 06 46" 346 58 36 162 06 08 86 25 06 Long Shoal....... . . . . . . · . . . West Durant Island . · · . . . · · .

C;...... r.; :::- c ..?A )81.

ALLIGATOR RIVER. ., ·ii.. +- 7, 11 1..!,"">'-> 4! k $. 5 I Sandy Point .········.····. 35 55 24.93 '.E. 0 10 45.02

b

,

,,

Metres. \

'

Yards.

.

!

i

South Danint .·.··········. Little Alligator ···········.

I I i 35 56 07.49 I

352 52 05 54 24 34 263 56 06 287 38 40 22 06 53 166 58 55

4136.2 6870.7

I
!
I

4523.211 7513.6

I I !

M"Jes,

.

-

0 16 14.17

I 35 57 15.93

0 10 13.461 0 15 13.981

I

Sandy Point . . · · · · · . . · . · · · · . Long Shoal..... . . . . · · . . · . . .
Long Shoal. . · . . . · · . . . . · · · . . Sandy Point.... . . · . . · . . . · · .

""""'-a

9136.2 I 9196.2 . 10056.7

Oc>~A ~

':

I

2.57 4.27
5.19 5.71

Bn.ey Holl ·.··.· ·········

I
l

737.41 3511.0

35 55 38.69

West Durant Island......... Sandy Point . · · · · . · · · . · · · · . .
Long Shoal................. West Durant Island . · . · . . . . . Long Shoal................. Sandy Point.... . · . · · . · . · . . · Long Shoal... · · . . . . . . . . .. . . Sandy Point.. · · . · . · · · · . . · . .

342 05 41 266 2-2 28
307 00 o7 359 42 09 32i 12 24
295 17 43

3757.8 ! 6755.8 I

I

I

:l839.5
4109.4 7387.9
8387.0

806.4

0.46 2.18
2.33 4.20 4.76 2.79
4.96 3.08 5.21

A. ························ , 35 55 08.25 :E. 0 14 28.83

I

127 02 30 179 42 09 141 14 21 115 19 28
164 44 3'2 156 59 06

7669.4 4514.31

I

4936.7

B ························/

Laurel Point ·····.··.·.... / I

: : :::: IE : :: : : I
I
35 52 12.71 35 53 44.18 35 54 08.63

7988.61 4967.6
8393.7

8736.l
5432.4

I Second Creek .··········.·. i
c ...... ··················!
¥ ············ ······

344 43 40 336 58 27

9179.1

4S33.9
6634.2 5066.2

4744.9
7255.0 5540.2 6856.2 4437.8

2.69
4.12 3.14

o 08

45.90

I

I

206 44 03 247 34 38
63 17 30 139 55 33
296 2"2 42

Sandy Point. .·..... , .· .- -. . L:mrel Point.. · · · . · · · . · · · · . . Second Creek · · · · · . · · · · . · · . Sandy Point · · · . · · · · · · · . · · · ·
Laurel Point...... · · · · · · · · · · Second CNek ···· ···· ······

26 45 13 67 36 27 343 15 19 319 54 32 116 23 59 201 01 51

······1I

0 12 29.22

6269.6
4058.l

3.89 2.52 2.29 2.37

IE. 0 09 40.74

21

cri

3693.6
3827.9

23

4186.0

4039.21

United Sta'te8 Coast Suriey.-'"-Geograp1iical Positions. Section IV.-Alligator River. Sketch D.
Name of sta.tion. Lot Signal ................ .
~

Latitude. _
p
I fl

l-Lougi~d_e. .1
0
I //

Azimuth.
0
I /I

To 11tationSecond Creek .···..··...... Laurel Point ............. .. Laurel Point............... Cypress Point . · · · .. · · · . · .. .
Lot Signal.................. Second Creek ............. -

Back azimuth.1 Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
0 ' "

35 48 05.87 E. O OS 24.76

183 59 37

208 39 26
······················· , 35 5l 01.43
35 50 29.74 35 52 04.02

3 59 50 28 41 21
56 30 14 124 38 16 233 57 55

j

i

Metres.

7626.2
1os12_.o

Yards. 8339.8 11889.3 8175.5 8134.2 8-247 .2 7006.7

Milss. 4.73 6.75

0 07 44-20
0 12 27.79

236 27 48 S04 35 53
54 00 17

7476.0 7438.2

4.6!
4.62
4.68 3.98
5.57

]!: ·· ,. ···· ·· ···· ···· ·····.

lJ9 42 J9

299 40 09

7541.6 6407.2

D . .. . . . . · . . ·. .· . · · ··. ....
F .. ., ..···. ...... ..· · ..·.

0 11 50.12

3.'> 05 19 9319 41
1

Lot Signal...... · · · · · · · · · . · . Second Creek ..............

I
1

215 O!l 20 27317 54 244 l4 21 313 09 2'2

8968.6
4627 .8
6337.7 7095.9

9807 .8
5060.8
6930.7 7759.9

2.88
3.94 4.41

35 49 35.171
35 49

o l2

l2-l7

64 16 34 133 11 23
2'J3 00 51 28.'> 31 20
144 34 29 180 47 OS

I Lot Signal ..................
I &·cond
Creek . .. · . . .. . · · · ..

w ... . ... .... . . . .. . .. . . ..
Cypress Point............. Frying Pan ............ ····! foplarRidge ·.··. .,.,. ···.

39.531
I
I

1

0 07 44.3S 0 11 48.09

Laurel Point ............... 1 43 09 16 ' Cypress Point ............ 105 33 43

--1

I I
I
1

9113.6 6319.6
7863.2
S-J54.6

9966.4 6943.7
8599.0 9136.3

5.66 3.95
4.89 5.19 8.27

~

·

35 48 44.31
35 '5

i Second Creek .............. : 324 32 42

Laurel Point ............... !

0 47 10

35 4317.~

00.981 0 08 39.38 ·,·: I -·. . :,·_,.

180 42 56 176 20 02
154 44 54 129 46 58

Second Creek. ............. I 0 43 00 Lot Signal: .... ·............. f 356 19 54

I

I 13306.8 5710.1
I I
\
6473~0

14551.9 6"244.4

3_55·
3.}ct

0 l~-~~-?~

:~;: =~·:=·~~\:

·:·::~oo:I:.:\

j Frying Pan ..···· - ········· · I 309 45 29

/ Lot Signal.. ................ ! 334 43 17

9825.4 10744.8 498-i .4 · 5448. 6
6108.0

6.10

110 0-4 47
\.~

56 09 26
tlS <\O 1.0 \Y'f ~

~Frying Pau ..·····.···..···. \
Yrying 1.'1m ·· - ·· - - - ······ - -wt.~~1!.\---·~·····

236 07 21 Lot Signal ······.··········· \ 990 00 33

7078.7 6679.5 71)()1).6
~s.9

4.02 3.8()

..·-. ....

238 3S 03 ~~ \\1.

oa

6<\01.6
~i.o

Name of station.

Latitude.
0 , ,.

Longitude.

Azimuth.
0
I

To stationFrying Pan.-------- ·······. Lot Signal.·----------- ..·. Cypress Point---------- ·.·. Poplar Ridge ·········.·.··· Frying Pan .···· ---· ·······. Poplar Ridge .·····.···· --- . Frying Pan .··.·· ----------· Poplar Ridge ········.·· - - - · Frying Pan .····.····. ·----· Poplar Ridge ·········...·.. Frying Pan ..·······.···.··. Poplar Ridge ···········.... l''rying Pan ·········..·····. Poplar Ridge .··· -- · -- ··· - ..

(Back azimuth.
0
I
II

Distance. / Distance. / Di!Jtance.

I

o

,

,,

II ........................

35 45 20.33 E. 0 11 56.38 35 45 52.33 \ 35 42 12.18
I

830842 133 50 38 224 17 43 318 11 26 176 16 59 240 00 18 165 35 55 277 59 33 18-2 51 24 249 43 47 163 19 46 289 52 45 172 58 13 2"20 38 55 61 42 28 141 33 20 84 41 34 151 05 03 37 51 28 114 35 15 137 48 59 190 33 31

"

263 06 47 313 48 :« 44 19 44 138 13 05 356 16 51 60 01 39
345 35 39 98 00 46

Metres. 4987.3 7367.4

Yards. 5454.0 · 8056.8

.

Kiles. 3.10 4.58
4.60 3.98 3.24 2.51 1.76 1.96 2.92 2.69 1.31 2.13 4.19 2.87 2.22 3.96 1.70 4.57 3.66 3.03 1.81 3.57

u ------ ·----- ------ -----·
Q ·----- ·----- ·----- -----·

0 08 21.98 0 08 52.72

7408.2 6397.7 5213.4 4032.2 2837.2 3155.0 4693.3 4332.5 2109.4 3429.3 6737 .8 4613.6 3569.9 6378.2 2743.2 73i)().1 5896.7 4883.5 2907 .2 5751.4

8101.4 &J96.3 5701.2 4409.5 3102.7 3450.2 5132.5 4737.9 2306.8 3150.2 7368.3 5045.3 3903.9 6975.0 2999.9 8037.9 6448.5 5340.5 3179.2 6289.6

R ·----------------·-----·

35 43 31.81 35 42 28.19

I

0 09 07.36 0 08 29.96 0 09 03.36 0 09 12.09 0 1117.12 0 11 00.73 0 11 36.03

B ----------~------------·
T -----· ------ ·----- ----··
NewportNews ---- ·····...

2 51 29 69 45 21 343 19 32 109 54 00 352 57 54 40 40 (If) 241 41 15 321 31 48 264 40 31 331 03 40 217 50 04 294 33 32 317 48 14 10 33 55

35 43 55.421 35 41 24.00 35 42 18.91

I
! I
i
I
I

J ·-·---·-·--·-----··---··

Newport News ..····.··..··· Frying Pan ...···.·······..· Newport News ..···..·..··.. Frying Pan ..·····.·.··· - - ·. Newport News .·····.·.····. Frying Pan .·.··· - ·.·.·····. Newjlort News ··.····..····· Poplar Ridge ···············

K ··---··-----·----··----·
I ....... ····-····----·····

35 41 32.24 i i 35 43 55.08 35 40 14.11

i
I
I

L ------ ·----· -----· -----·

IE. 0 10 29.73

United States
Nrunt1 of station.

Coa~t

Survey.-Geographical Positions.

Section IV.-Croatan Smmd.
To stationBack azimuth.
0
I

Sketch D.

I

Latitude.

c ove Signal .···.··..····..

0

'

,.

35 39 21.59 E. 0 10 02.56 35 39 03.01 35 39 35.58 0 09 15.73 0 08 43.70

I I

Longitude.

Arimuth.

I
i

IDistance. \ Distance.
I
I

Distance.

0

I

,,

0

I

II

161 24 14 193 25 46 178 47 14 244 03 47 208 31 23 28'2 15 01 211 58 03 317 14 0-2

I Newport !'ews .··..···.····. I Poplar Ridge ..··.····..··..
Newport News .·..······· : ·. I Cove Signal ·········..···..

341 23 13 26 27 358 47 12 64 04 14 28 32 49 10-2 15 47 31 59 22 137 14 41

" 45

Metre$.

I

3980.4 7477.0 4346.2 1309.7 7787.4 20".l9.9 6439.4 2465.5

Yards. 43.52.9 8176.5
4752.8 1432.3 8512.8 2":ll9.8 7041.9 2696.2

Miles. 2.47 4.65
2.70 0.81 4.84 1.26 4.00 1.53

-----------------··----·
0 ---- ---- ---- ...... -----p ---· ------ ---· ------ ---CROAT.AN SOUND. dget .··················. Ro BERT'S FISHERY--------·

I Poplar Ridge .···.·········.
Cove Signal ······.··.······ Cove Signal ··.·.··········.

35 40 20.33 E. 0 08 56.01

I Poplar Ridge ..··.··.···.·..
Roden ........... -- -- ---- -Carmon's Point .···. __ ·····. Carroon's Point .···· -------Roden .···. -·-- ···········. Carroon's Point .···.·······. Roden ...·. ---- ··.·····.··. Carroon's Point ······.·····.

35 58 07.60 E. 0 21 24.20 35 56 06.08 35 56 06.67 35 56 06,26 35 56 26.40
~

247 45 39 298 47 54 138 44 18 212 12 42 138 08 40 212 06 59

67 49 17 118 48 51 318 43 29 32 14 33 318 07 50 32 08 50 288 54 04 359 10 21 28'2 34 22 251 21 11
~\Yl ~00~

10056.8 280-2.0 3185.7 89"20.l 3191.4 I 8890.0 II

10997 .B
3064.2 3483.7 9754.7 3490.0 9721.8

6.24 1.74

0 24 26.03 0 24 27.17

1.97 5.54 1.98 5.52
4.57 4.68 5.03 4.34
6.1:9 <\.93

Ro bert's Fishery, (2) .·····.

w est End of Roanoke ·····.
Dow.-···············---'Mann's Hill ..····.···. --··

0"' 40_23 \ 179 108 56 47 10 24 0 28 17 .88
- (}
~ ~-<\1

~- ---- -

---- ---- ---- -- -

7366.51 · 8055.7 8246.9 7541.3

I

102 37 27 171 21 35
10'.\ 10 57 1."'9 01. ";\1.

Carroon's Point .·.·.·.····.. Roden .··..·.········.····. C11.noon's "Po\nt. -- ····· __ ..·
'&i\.e"ll.----- ---- ------ ------

I

t'>6 1.1Ll9

u

\

81006 6999.2 \
9967 .<\
':il94£.'.!.

8865.1 7654..1
10900.1)

&.89.7

________________ ,______ -----------------'/Back I I
N llllle of station.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

Longitude.
0 , ,,

/

.Azimuth.
0 ,

To station-

azimuth. Distance. / Di.stance. { Distance.
,, ,

,,

I

0

Fleet\Vood ···············

I
1

:l5 52 59.29 E. 0 26 31.66 \ 1513654 1 I 196 36 17

R-0bert'sFishery .··········. West End of Roanoke . · · · · · ·

3313541 16 36 58

:Metres. 6564.6 6013.7

Yards. 7178.8 6576.4

Miles. 4.07 3.73

Weir Point ················

!

35 55 31.93

0 Z1 59.60 0 30 28.51

1~ ~ ~;
89 58 13 141 32 38
244 37 56 149 57 32 170 39 51 232 24 47 160 56 37 119 46 26

~e:!rt~~sh~;.y::::::::::::I ~ ~ !~
Fleet Wood................ Weir Point..... · · · · . · · . · · . · Weir Point. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Robert's Fishery............ Fleet Wood................ Pork Point.................

5195.8 5431.6 5940.6 600"2.5 4088.1 3258.4 4107.5 6655.7

5681.9 5939.8 6496 5 6564.2 4470.6 3563.3 4491.8 7278.4 4903.5 9328.9

3.2-2 3.37 3.69 3.72 2.54 2.02 2.55 4.13 2.78 5.30

Pork Point .··············· 1 35 52 59.44

269 55 54 321 31 11
64 39 2-2 329 56 54

RedSt-One.................

35 54 35.14

0 25 32.24
0 26 58.21

1'2
·~

Callaghan's Creek ······ - · - ·I 35 50 47.78
Baum'a Creek ············· 1 35 50 41.93 E.

350 39 35 52 26 50
299 43 33

g .

o 31

26.86

CURRITUCK SOUND.

SHELL B.unr ··············· ; PowELL's PoL"iT ·······.··· /

l l

i Fleet Wood ············.··. :
I

I Pork Point ..····.··.···.··. 1 340 56 03

36 03 20.93 36 04 1s.83

JE.

0 26 57.96

o 23 26.13
0 31 17 .91

1---- ------·--· ..................................................................... .
ji

.............. ............................ 1 1

I

I . I 1·············· ·---~·····,-········· ·········
302 21 30 296 34 55 770-2.5 13190.5 1613-2.3 5239.2
10361.6 8423.2 \ 14424.7

Kill Devil Hill ······· ······ 1 36 01 fJ7 .05

122 24 03 116 39 3i 357 35 04 301 12 57

Shell Bank....... . . . . . . . . . . Powell'sl'oint .···.··..·.··.

4.79 8.20 10.02 3.26 6.44 5.70

Sampwn's Point···········\ 36 04 49.08 ._

o 23

l
58.90
Ii

Paul Gamiel's Hill .··.······

ij 36 09 16.29 1 i.E. 0 26 39.91. I
I

Robert's Fishery ..··...·.··. Shell Bank ..··........···..
Powell's Point .·..····.····.
S<WJptiOn's Poiut ··········· ,

177 35 20 121 14 43
207 46 25
2U(i 0-2 20

17641.8 5729.4 11331.31 100'44.3

27 43 19 260355

9166.6

United States Coast Sttrvetj.-Geographical Positions.
!
Name of.station.

Sectinn IV.-Roanoke Islllnd and Bodie's Island.
To station-

Sketch D ·
Distance.

I

Latitude.

Longitude.

.Azimuth.

-~~~~~--~~~'.~~--~~·1-~~~~-1-~--~~-1-~~~~~~~~~-1·~~~~~
0 , "
0 , ,,
Q
I Ir

·.,, """""'·· I
0

rn....00.
Metres. 7297.8 6073.1

Irn..n~.
Yards. 7980.7 6641.4

Martin's Point ·...··.··.·.·

36 07 31.62 E. 0 26 16.20 36 06 48.26 36 09 38.31 36 11 52.05 36 07 19.34 36 13 07-44
0 23 33.68 0 22 33.54

35 31 09 34 26 17 251 47 04 321 19 58 305 02 03 276 16 04

i I Powell's Point .···.··.·.·...
Martin's Point .····.·.··.··. Paul Gamiel's Hill ...···.·.·. Martin's Point .···.. ---- ···. Paul Gamiel's Hill .·········.
Thoroughfare Island.-------Martin's Point .· ---- ········

, ,,

Sampson's Point .·.··..·.... Martin's Point .··......··... Shell Bank .........··......

215 29 30 214 24 56 71 48 40 141 21 58 125 04 14 96 18 30 174 26 35 164 01 57 354 24 10 85 48 35 105 58 07 152 31 05 81 40 57 155 57 36

Miles. 4.53 3.77

Pig Point .····. -·-----.... Thoroughfare Island........ North Banks.............. HogQuarterWmdmill...... Poke ·Point................

4277.5 8181.5 6798.5 ' 6194.4

4677.7 8947 .1 7434.6 6774.0 8818.7 5460.1' 4705.9 5643.9
9"250.l 7945.2

2.66
5.08 4.22 3.85 5.01 3.10 2.67 3.21 5.26 4.51 3.90 2.19

~

0 25 44.93
0 22 50.33 0 20 19.28

354 26 17 344 01 24
174 24 20 265 46 34
285 54 55 332 29 46

I

8064.l 499'2.9
4303.2 5161.0

?

0

t::1

:0

North Banks ······· ---- ···· Thoroughfare Island · -- ······ North Banks ...·.·. -------Thoroughfare Island ········.

8458.6
7265.4 6279.6 3516.l

Jew's Quarter.............
RO.A.i.~OXE

36 11 22.51 E.O 21 36.20

261 38 30 335 57 03

6867.2 3845.1

ISLAND .AND BODIE'S ISL.AND.
Eim
OF
oF

NoRTR

Bui: ·.····· lh.si: .····..

Smnu Eim

S\ui.l\ow ~\.. ~ay ···· ------

Name of station.

Latitude.

1,1

Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

I
\

Back azimuth.

Distance.

Distance. Distance.

f

-~~~~~~~~~-~~~~-r~~~~-1~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~-!~~~~~1-~~~:1~~~-1
o ' "

)Ieekin's Mill ··············

35 5128.60 \· 0 3310.23 35 49 58.25 \ 35 56 35.47 35 54 38.86 35 55 43.68 35 53 08.73 35 52 20.90 35 53 41.79 0 34 20.14

I

o

'

"

o

'

"

218 07 14 3041149 193 57 26 29"2 50 40

North End ofBase .········ .I 3i3 08 38 SouthEndofBase .·.······. ! 1241454
I

o

'

"

.Mdres. 5795.8 9567.3

Yards.
6338.1 104&.!.5

MJes.
3.60 5.94

:Roanoke Island, south end ···

NorthEndofBase ..········ j 13 58 09 South End of Base ·····.··· · \ 112 53 04 Ca.rroou's Point ..·······..

.Jacock ···················
Sugar Wreck ·····.········ Nag's Head ················

0 33 58.59
0 35 41.05

275 13 21 88 08 58
8 54 40 63 10 38

Dow.......................

··I

7566.7 6682. 7 16516.9 8543.7 1319.3 2816.6 2454.0 2519.6 1608.0

S-274.7 7308.2
18062.3 9343.1 1442.7 3080.1 2683.6 3848.9

4.70 4.15 10.26 5.30 0.81
1.74

275 06 57 268 05 38

NorthEndofBase ········· 188 54 35 No. 4 ······ ...··· ········ ·· ! 243 09 39

J
i

0 34 44.191 324 29 02 339 41 35 0 35 58.52 / 156 27 22
0 36 24.131 156 27 37
I

Sugar Wreck ..····.········ i 144 29 35 ; North End of Base .······· ·· 1 159 42 03 North End of Base ······.... · 336 27 07 First Mile Stone ····.······· North End of Base .···. _ ...·. Second Mile Stone ..·.···... 336 27 22 293 34 08 174 28 54 323 05 41 317 14 19
336 27 37 19 34 28

1.52 2.18
1.00

. =

First Mile Stone ····.· __ ··.
Second Mile Stone ·.··.·.·· :Beach Signal .······..···.. Tent Pole ················.
Third }file SUme ······.···.

1758.41
1758.41' 12C5.2 2738.9
I

1608.0 1138.7 2504.6
2809.4 1240.8

1.00

0 36 14.52

i

113 34 32
354 28 53

0.70
1.55
1.74

35 51 51.341
35 51

0 :l6 57-71

!

148 06 16 137 14 39
J99 34 23

! Second Mile Stone .········.
j Second Mile Stone··..·.·...

First Mile Stone .···········

3072.2 1356.8

0.77

33.061

0 36 49.731 156 27 52 0 36 11.52

No.1. ···················.

1

35 51 02.44

k.
I

Tent Pole ....·····.·······.

1608.0 597.8
243'3.6 1345.l

I
1758.4 653.7
1'

LOO 0.37
1.51

187 26 50 225 26 07

I

Second Mile Stone ·····.·· Third "Mile Stone ···.·····.

7 26 57 45 26 30

2666.1 1470.9 /

I

0.84

United States Coast Sun:ey.-GeographU:al Positions.
Nllille of station. Latitude. Longitude.
Azimuth.

Section

IT'~-Bodie's

Island.

Sketch D.

No. 2 ····.····.··.······.

I

I IDIB·~~ l~~~~~-1-~~~~~~~~~~1'~~~----l~~~~·~~~~f~~To station""k '""""""
o ' ~ 52 38 06 1

\

rn......

Distance.

0

I

1/

o

'

"

35 51 51.90 E. 0 35 37 .48

I

I

o

/

1

'

23:'l 37 39

No. 3 .····.······.··.·....
No. 4 .·····...···.···.···.

35 52 58.36
35 53 57.61 35 50 45.23 35 49 57.40 35 49 09.55 35 50 47.54

03451.30 1 : : : 259 15 49 0 34 00.80
1 I I

~~~:~~::;u:::~::::::~~::
First Mile Stone............
Xorth End of Base.......... First Mile Stone............ Third )file Stone............

Second Mile St~me.. ··· ··· ..

lJictres. 1472.2

:::: 79 16 28
90 48 09 117 02 32
_336 27 52

1716.0 2309.4 3313.9 1608.0 1608.0 1194.1 1608. 0 1993.5 1403.1 1405.9 2083.5 2081.7 768.0

;::~~ ::;;~:
2525.4 3623.9 1758.4 1758.4 1305.8 1758.4 2180.0

lrards. 16G9.9

Miles. 0.91

18'"6.5

::: 1.06
1.44
2.06

270 47 15 297 01 23

Fourth Mile Stone ········.
Fifth Mile Stone .····.··.·.

0 37 15.3'2 j 156 28 07 0 37 40.90 0 38 06.47 0 36 50.73

LOO LOO

I

i

156 28 2'2
3.16 28 37 156 28 37

I Fourth Mile Stone ...····. ··1

I

336 28 07

Sixth Mile Stone .·····.·.·. Tommy's Hammock ..·.···. Four Wrecks Signal ·······. Barrel Head .·········.···. Cedar Point .············..
Cu\.-0\I °P<lmt ··············

8?nth E!1d of Base ·······. 156 28 48 J,lfth Mile Stone ...·..···.·. i 336 28 22 FifthMileStone .····.·...·· 11405033 Third:Mile8t-0ne ·...·...··.. \ 358 58 30 Third Mile Stone .···....·.·. ! 308 23 12 Fifth Mile Stone .····.·····. i 177 59 27 F?urth _llile Stone .·..···.·. Fifth Mile Stone . . · · · · · · . . · ·
I

··i

0.74
1.00 1.23

3'24 50 04
17~

58 31

1534.3
1537.4 2-278.4

0.87 0.87
l.~

35 51 04.74 35 49 55.46 35 49 06.28
'35 4'0
~.5'l.

0 37 33.65 ' 128 23 38 354 59 23

0 38 1L41 () 37 04.62
E.I)
~

137 Z7 39 5 00 19

i
1

317 27 06 185 00 16
30

2276.4 839.8
1989.6 1701.3 \
1&\9.1 1421>.4

1.99 0.49
1.12

210 01 48
266 16 55 '261. 05 ~ 1.64. 03 42

F~fth Mile Stone .····.··.... \

Sixth Mile St<lne ············ \

09 86 11 31
S1. 05 4.1. 344 03'26

0:

1819.4 1555.8
1690.9 1300.2

0.97
Lila

1.S.91

&>utb. Euil ot Base.. · · · · · · · . Cedll.rl?omt ··············· ,

O.Sl

lhzii'ed &mes
Name of station. Howard Signal .···········. North Duck lslana. ---· ---· Sonth Duek Island ······... North Point-·---·----· ···. Bodie's Island .µght-honse .. Midget .·········.···.···.. Green Island ····...······.

Ooas~

l .
0

Latitude.
II

I
I

Sun-ey.-O'eograpniCd .Posz~Wn.r.
Lo,g;tOOo.
0
I I·

Bedzmz IJ?:-.Bodie's Is/and.
/ Back azimuth.
0
I

SkacA .P.
Distance.
Metres. 2412.9 754.1

Azimuth.
0

To station-

,

35 49 11.88 1E. 0 38 36.38 35 48 17.10 35 47 40.09 35 48 13.57 35 47 20.54 35 47 32.93 0 35 30.94 0 36 04.93 0 39 09.50 0 39 23.79 0 39 40.80

53 42 18 84 32 0-2

"

I

I

I I I

Distance. / Distance.
Yards. 2638.6 S-24.6

Cut-off Point. ..· ·----------j SL.th }Iile Stone ·····.··..·. Cedar Point. ····.·····.··· : Cut-olf Point .......··.····. Cedar Point .·.··········.·. Cut-off Point--·······-· ···· Cut-olf Point ...··· -- ···· -- . South end of Base ..···.··.·. Howard Signal ...····.·····. South end of Base .···.···.·. South Duck Island ·······.. South End of Base ·······...

I

II

233 41 33 264 31 45 57 12 17 84 32 16 29 25 53 52 59 35 277 33 03 299 41 06 340 51 59 3'27 06 20

I
i

l

Miles. 1.49 0.46

2371122
264 31 13 209 25 18 23'2 58 52 97 34 08 19 41 32 160 52 27 147 06 54 92 20 49 134 52 15 165 54 18 193 06 36 Hr2 27 36 151 35 26 3"21 52 28 29 41 12 154 04 36 119 3'2 03 144 50 33 342 33 39

2797.4 2722.7 3049.4 2325.7 2800.6 12i2.6 3631.6 2696.7 5424.5 2668.8 4003.8 3010.2 2639.5 39il0.3 2722.6 1810.3 3675.1 2903.2 178"2.4 1936.9

-I 3059.1 I
2977.4 \ 3334.7, 2543.3

1.73 1.69 1.89 1.44 1.73 0.79 2.25 1.67 3.37 1.65 3.08 1.89 1.64 2.47

3062.6, 1391.6
3971.4 2949.o 5932.o 2918.5 5428.2 3291.8 28&L5 4352.7

I

fll

-1

I

I I
I

r

t:I 0

272 18 43 314 51 30

~

~

45 57.80

I
I
I

0 39 13.61 0 40 56.23 0 39 49.31 04017.58

South End of Base ········· · J 345 53 50 Midget ....··...··.··.···.. 13 06 52 Green Island ·..··.·...···.. l\!idget. .·..·...·· , __ ..··.. -1 Wreck Salford ..······.···.. Green Island .···.·.·..·

·wreek Safford ..·....····..
Salt Pump ···········.··.· Engle Nest Point. ········.·

35 45 39.33

I

I

282 26 36 331 34 41 141 53 07 209 40 51

35 46 48.841 35 44 10.55

I

···-1

2977.4 i 1979.7 I
I

W=·

Green Island ·.·.·.· · · - . · · · - i

334 03 59 S.."'"1·...·......... 1 19 32 26 324 50 09 162 33 53

4019, 3174.9
1949.2 2118.1

Gar Island ················

35 45 10.52 E. 0 39 54.48

I

Green Island ..···.··.·.···. Eagle Nest Point ············

I

1.69 1.12 2.28 1.80

Lll 1.20

~ ~

~

United States Ooast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station.

Section JV..;;__New Inlet to Cape Hatteras.
To stationEagle Nest Point .·········. Wreck Salford .············. Eagle Nest Point .··.······. Wre"ck Salford .····.···.···· Eagle Nest Point . · · · · · · · ··· Brig Adams ········.······· Eagle Nest Point .·········. Brig Adams ·······.···.···.
Brig Adams ····..·······.·. Pea Island .················.

Sketch D.
'I

~

I
I

Latitude.
0 , "

l

0 0

Longitude.
0
I ,,

Azimuth.
Q
I II

Back azimuth.
0 , ,,

Distance. i Distance. Distance
Metres. \ 1619.6 t 2115.8
2-234.6

Yarns.
li7l.2

Ethridge's House..........

35 44 32.61 E. 0 41 16.09 0 41 44.80
0 40 41.37
0 40

65 IO 53 166 21 46
101 15 43 158 57 44
168 13 56 213 13 29

245 IO 19 346 21 34
281 14 51 338 57 16

I

2313.8 2443.7 3716.8
3205.3

Miles I.OJ l.31

Brig Adams ··············· J 35 43 56.40 Pea Island ···············. 35 42 37.44

3398.8 : 2931.0 2908.9

I

348 13 42 14 06

33

I i
l

1.3' 2.11
1.82

3181.1 1949.6 2416.9 1812.9 1453.4,.

1.81
1.11

Little Pea Island .·····.···· , 35 43 14.21

I
Pea Island Main ··········. / 35 43 06.35
New Inlet, North Point ····· 35 42 00.54 35 41 08.97

33.681

166 53 03 233 57 29 201 30 48 47 54 37
114 33 47 165 56 07.

346 52 54

53 58 11

178-2.81' 2-210.1 1657.8 1329.0
2736.7
36..,Q().9

1.37

0 41 20.61

21 31 02

0 42.20.40

Jack Shoal ············

····!
I
I

Pea Island ·················. Brig Adams ················ Pealsland .·............··.. New Inlet, North Point .·····. Jack Shoal ······.·...······ New Inlet, North Point.···· :.

'-'1..7 a 294 t2

~5414

1.03 0.83
1.70 2.29 1.77 1.43

49

345 55 46

i

299-2.8 4025.3
31J3.5 2520.0 2250.l 1954.1

04114021

163 14 59
2-26 23 57

New Inlet, South Point ····· [ 35 41 03.90 E. 0 42 35.62 , iii iQ 6i I l~ilQ~

74

343 14 40 46 24 36
l.

l.L q/

.

FRO:U :NEW Th"'LET TO CAPE HATTERAS.

I

1t7
35 40 16.81 E. 0 42 45 93

J{r 2.0

<H i8 &t 348 <18 i7 J4) 3,/I

34 1./ 13

2847.1 2304.4 i

I
i

2057.6 !

178691

1.28 1.11

South of New Inlet Signal .··
"Lo%ger\l.ell.il 1.nlet ········· \

~ '3S 14. .14.

· \\ 4.2. 4.1 -~

Jo4 4i'" s-4 /2.4 ~ 4';: Jack Shoal .·······. --·--··· iWl iU Ul dI II New lrilet, North Point....... iii IJ 1 11 l'Uril .5 41( .3\l- 4f ·' G ~ J<; " 2....
1""' ~ "l.S 1'11"> 4.A 1'l ae"'- ~b.mu · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · &>ufu ut 'N-<>Vi lli\<>\.... ······
~

2815.1 3260.3 l\
'5819.\)
~~-".l

3078.5 3565.4

1.75 2.03

157 ~ '&>S '.\<\."\A

/_ Latitude. Name of stadon. / Loll/{I "t ude. ___ __ ____, ____ 1 1

~
(;)

Loggerhead Shoal .········. i 35 37 <>9.39 E. 0 42 13.63
I
I

I

~

, _"

I

0

,

"

( I I

Azimuth.
0 , ,,

I
I

Tu....,._

IJlocl< """""'·
I
62 ~ 41 10 al 23
0
I II

Distance. { Distance. ( Distance.

i
'

1

242 09 20 190 51 04

Loggerhea? Inlet............ South of New Inlet.......... Loggerhead Shoal........... Loggerhead Inlet...... · · · · · . Loggerhead Iblet......... ·· . Chickamicomico North....... Chickamicomico North.......

Metre~.

1012.5: 4312.1 40-25. 71! 4041.8

I

I

Yards. I' 1107.3 4715.6 i
440-2.4 4420.0

.M'&la. 0.63

2.68
2.50 2.51 2.73 0.71

Chickamicomico North .··.. \ 35 36 11.26 !

Wmd Mill .··············

..I

0 43 43.43 j 145 52 08 ' 160 17 08

325 51 16 340 16 37 355 18 28 60 07 35 12 51 30

35 35 52.54

O 43 03.521
0 43 19.81

175 18 36 240 07 11 51 17 168 33 54 139 42 45 48 57 31 142 42 29 182 32 45 174 53 24

4396.8 I 1158.41
2671.6

4808.2 1266.7
2921.5
~.2

Cb1ckanuconuco Mam ·····. , 35 34 46.74 Chickamicomieo, (2) ·······. ' Chickamicomico,(3) ..·····.

.

.

.

.

l

I 192 i

Wmdmlll · · · · . . · · · · · · · · · · . .
Wmdnu11.... · . . · · · · · . · · · · . . Chiclwnicomico Main · · · . · · ·

348 33 45
319 42 18 228 57 14 322 42 13 2 32 46 354 53 16 6 57 45 30 50 60 123 08 24
354 53 03

2068.1
1798.7 998.5

3.5 35 08.02 35 34 17.60

0 43 49.731

I i
iI

I

I

1.65 I.28
1.11 0.62

1967.0 1091.9 1234.91 1700.8 I 4120.5 3144.8

0 43 46.98 ,·

Chickamicomico Main........ Chickamicomico,(2}. ···· ··.. Chickamicomico Main · · · · · · . Chickamicomico, (3).... · · · · · Chickamioomioo, ( 4). · · · · · · · .

112!LO 1555.3

0.73 0.96
2.34 1.78

Chickamicomico,(4) ·······. / 35 32 44.97
!

0 43 33.14

i

186 57 36
210 50 19 303 08 0-2

Opening Marsh ··········· -1 35 33 05.64

I · Chickamicomico, (3).. · . · · · · .

3767.7 I 2875.8 i

2582.91
1165.4 ,·

2824.5 1274.4 3567 .1 2952.8 2741.6 1509.3

1.60 0.72

Wreck Dolphin ············ 1 35 31 20.21
! No Egg Point ·········· ····\ 35 31 47.58

0 43 05.94 0 42 21.57

174 53 07 194 41 49 225 08 29 307 39 08 193 50 1)8 231 08 ~

OpeniDg Marsh · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Cbickamicomieo,(4). ·· ·····. Chickamicomico, ( 4). · . · · · · . . Wreck Dolphin.............
No

14 42 05 46 09 10 127 39 33
13 50 20

3261.9 . 2700.2 2507 .I 1380.0

2.03
1.67 1.55 0.85

Cedar Hammock Island ···· · 1

I

Wreck

Er~rPoint... ··.· .·. . ···. Do}p~. ·· · · · · · · ·· · ·

2"il3.9
~-9

242LO
'WI-~.

5l 00 20

J.38 1.29

United States Coast Suroey.-Geographicol J?ositions.
Name of station. Latitude. \ Longitude. Azimuth.

Section I"P.-New Inlet to Cape Hatteras.
To llta.tion-

Sketch D.
Distance

B_ay Sigual ·.···.

----·---··1,

I I ,---------------!----------,
I
o , " o , ,, 35 29 49.51E.0 42 47.88
35 28 16.91 35 28 23.97 0 42 33.91 0 39 44.70 '

Back azimuth._\ Distance.\ Distance.

o , ,, 1415358 189 14 43

CedarHarnmocklsland .····. Wreck Dolphin ...·....·.·· .' Cedar Hammock Island. __ ··. Gull Island........... · · · · · ·

o , " 32153 31 9 14 54
349 21 41 272 54 15 60 17 24 39 54 47

Mttres. 1891-7 2831.9

Yards. 2068.7 3096.8

Miles. 'i.11

1.76

ll;rtle SignaL ·· ····-- --·-

169 22 00 9-2 55 53 240 15 37 219 53 27

4418.0 4271.0
5316.4 5376.6

4831.4 4670.6 5813.8 5879.6

2.74
2.65
3.3tl 3.34

Gull

Island ·.···· ·---·· ____

Bay Signal---··---· .... --·· Cedar Hammock Island......
Myrtle Signal............... Gull Island .····· _ ·· _···· _._

Little Hill. __ .· ___ . --- . __ ·. Drain Island ······· ------··

1 35 26 20.03

I

0 42 26.13

183 06 57 133 11 26

3 07 02 313 09 53
14 45 36 52 ~ 09 323 13 19 2 06 32 S 10 45 44 34 54 304 16 25 4 36 37 11 00 56 50 51 19

3007.1
5581.5

6103.7

3944-6

2.24 3.46 2.78 0.73

35 25 56.751

0 41 48.79
0 42 23.38 0 41 44.00

194 45 09 232 41 47
143 13 40 182 06 30

Myrtle Signal .···· - ···· - ··. Little HilL ··.· ---·-····-·· Drain Island .···.. ···-···-·Little Hill.. ............. - · Drain Island ······ ···-··.... Bald Beach .············· - · · Terrapin Point .····· - - · · · · . . Bald Beach .···· ---·--··--·· Terrapin Point ·.·· ---···---Barnes' Signal·---··----·-·-

4466.6 1184.0

4&.'<4.5 1294.7
I

BaldBeach.------·····--··I 35 25 18.87
Terrapin Point ·· _···· ___ ·· 35 24 46.151

If

1457.3 1886.0
21713.8 1415.3 1046.4 1602.6 1565_11 1500.8 1366.7 2205.6

183-10 43 224 34 31
124 -16 45 184 36 34 191 00 49 230 50 53 151 18 26 193 18 33

l
I

1593.6 2062.4

0.90
1.17

. =

2382.6 1547.7
1144.3

1.35 0.87 0.65 0.99
0.97 0.93

Barnes' Signal .·····.·····.
Bog Channel .· _··· - ······.

35 24 21 .03

I

o 42 is.21

'Bog Opening .········· - - - .

::::: \ :::::::
'f·
l'l U 'El-~'.\

1752.6
1712J! 1641.2 1494.6 2112.0

Bog Channel. ..·····.··. --··\331 18 11 Barnes' 8igna\ ······ ·--- ···13 18 45

0.85
1.31
L~
l).~\

Old. TT~ ·················· ' ~ 2-2 4'.\-74

\~og

Cnatme\ ·· ____ -· _. _. ___ ·

'.\ 1l'l 'il:t
'3Q ~ %.

~-l'l

'Bo11,0~eu\ni!,.-----····-·-·--

~-~

I

N11me of station.

stowe ·..···..···.····.··· \

I l l l Creek ·..···.·.··.·· ··j 35 2'2 04.06
0
I ,,

(

Latitude.

(

Longitude.
0
I :

/
!
.

A.zitnnth.
0
I

To stationOld Tree ...···.·····.·····. BogOpening ..····..·.·...·. Old Tree .·.······..·.··.··. Stowe ...··...···········.. Mill Creek .·····.·······..· Stowe .·.···.··.·····.····.

( Rt.ck azimuth. { Distance.

r1

-'"-/ ,
0

Distance.
Yards. 759.5 170-2.8

I I Distance.
Miles. 0.43 0.91

35 2-2 27 .74 :E. 0 41 4o.61 0 41 06.74 0 41 18.78 0 40 32.70 0 40 59.79 0 40 18.95 0 40 58.26 0 40 21.37 0 40 56.11

135 13 12 190 46 29 20-2 55 11 234 0-2 31 168 11 21 197 49 52
206 43 15

315 13 00 10 46 36

"

I I

Metres. 694.5

1557 .l

I Scarborough .·.·······.··· · l
Lookout, (1) ·······.······

22 55 23 54 02 54
348 11 14 17 50 08 26 43 34 77 43 05
323 52 30 21 56 10

35 21 16.89 35 21 08.66

1< 1243.2 I 1484.9
2"293-7

..1322.7'

t

' .14M.lJJ
1359.5 16-23.8 2508.3
2089.9 1302.0

\0.11
0. 92 1.42 1.19 0.74 0. 72 0. 80
}. 25 0.91

2i:J7 42 39

Mill Creek .···.······.····. Scarborough .··········.····

1911.1 1190.6 1160.3 1283.5 2015.0 1470.0 995.9 965.9 2634.9 2872.0 3575.9 1198.7 3292.0 2393.9 4665.4

·rn

Lookont, (2) ··.···· - · - - - · -1 35 20 38.25 Barnes' Mill ...·.·...·..... Lookout, (3) ·.·····.···.·. 35 20 04.26 35 20 06.93

143 52 46 201 55 59 189 55 16 224 32 54 85 15 00 18"2 18 24 178 40 11 198 55 2"2 164 47 01 132 55 35 166 54 55 183 10 12 191 21 57
230 36 39

Lookout, (1 ) ·.··..··.·..···. Scarborough ...····.·····.·. Lookout, {l) ·.····.··.·.···· Lookout, (2) .······.·······. Barnes' Mill ....·.·..·.···.. Lookout, (2) ····.···.·····. Barnes' Mill .·.······.····.. Lookout, ( 3) .··············· Bunes' Mill ·.···....·..·... Long Point ·.···..··..·····.
Long Point ; ······.·...····· Jardella ···.··············..

1268.9 1403.6 2203.6 1607.6 1089.1 1056.3 2881.4 3140.7 3910.5 1310.9
3600.0 2617.9

9 55 24 44 33 17 265 14 37 2 18 25 358 40 10 18 55 43

0. 62 0. 60
}. 64 1.78

Long Point ················ \ 35 18 38.77
.Tard ella · · · . · · · . · ..·.····. \ 35 18 12.28

344 46 40
312 55 15 346 54 37 3 10 15 11 22 17

2. 22
0.74

Log ·· -·-··--· -- ·- -· -· .. --

I p~···· ··········!
....

35 16 54.71 35 16 10.34

I

0 40 50.87

1?. 05
1. 49

lE. 0 39 44.97

Long Point ··'·············· Log.····· ······ ···········

l

50 37 18

2154.8

5101.9 2356.4

2. 90 1.34

~

co

United States Coast Sun:ey.-Geographical, ·Positionl.
Name of station.
. 1·

Secti.<m IV·..,.,..Cape 11.atwas to Ocrq..coke
To stationPalmetto ..····..·... - . - .·.. Log-···-··-····--·-· .····.

.

I~
I

Sketch I).
Distance.

~
~

Latitude.
0111

Longitude.
0111
II

Azimuth.
0111

Back azimuth. Distance. ·1 Distance.
0
I N

LMt Signal.. .. -- .····... -·

I

35 15 51.12 E. 0 40 45.39
II

111 12 13 184 02 38

291 11 38
4 02 4i

llfet~.

1637.9

Y~l'.ff-'.·

Mik$.

1964.4

179L2 2148.2

i:Q2: 1.22

CAPE HATTERAS TO \ OCRA.COKE INLET.

Cape Hatteras Light-house ..·: 35 15 11.08 E. 0 40 09.361161 20 37 1 216 25 23 11

Palmetto ......··· _···..·..· Last Signal ....··..···.·· _..
Light-house .............. .. Last Signal ..····..····.·...
1 A .··· - ·.··.········.······

341 20 23 36 25 44
321 07 28 7 21 10 28 23 58 8 55 17

19"27 .5 1533.5
1032.2 2054.4

I

2107.8 1676.9
1128.7

l.19

0.95

A---·------·-·--·····---·.I!

3514 45.00

I
I
1

0 40 34.9911410743 187 20 58

2"246.6 2516.7
31~0.9

1.27
1.42 1.77

0.64

Co;e Point-·--·--··--·---·:l.i 35 13 39.591
King's Point. ..... -- ·. __ ·.

0 39

51.861208 24 24

2292.3
2853.9 7632.9 10473.0
5470.5

188 5507

Light-house · : ...·. _ ····.... Light-house .·.··.. - · - - . -..· Barnes' IDll ·····. -- - - · - - -- ·
King's Point .·······.······· Barnes' IDll ················ King's Point .··········· - ··. Light-house...... . ····. ~ ...

i i
1

35 16 11.73 j

0 35 16.56
0 38 52.95

284 08 57 2.26 48 24

104 11 47 46 51 18
268 24 46 17 12 35

8347.1
11452.9
5982.4 8030.9

4.74 6.51
3.40 4.56

Jannet's::Mill .··...·····.·. ! 361616.60
]

l
i

882651 197 11 46
254 03 23

7343.8

Bare Hill ................. 1 , 35 13 25.51 1
EggShoal.. ·...··.··......

O 32

37.86 I!, 218 03 17
28.09

I 3515 29.56 ~o 28 I
I

38 04 48 74 07 44

~....,...,......
7381.3 10404.7 3303.1 4184.1 8071.9 11378.3 3612.2 4575.6
4.59 .47

:

i
1 \

J

30110 08 262 47 33

I Bare Hill ..···...···...····
King's Point .·.··..·.··· -·-Bare Hill--~--- ..···..···.. Egg Shoal .·····.·.. -·-----\
"EggSD.oal ···--· ····. -- ······ \ ~" ~o'm.t ················

121 12 32 82 51 29 110 19 57 309 44 06

Duran'sPoint .······..··.· .'\35 14 02.74
"i'OY'j?Q\ae · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

0 30 35.35

i: !~ i~
1.:% 1)9 .\\) <.121 '5ll 1.'"I

~ '\9. 25 .I;\)

2.05 2.60

· \) "31.) 1J.. .91) \

.

Unired Sm«:s Co_ast SlA"IJe!f.-GeograpAii:al .Positions.
Name of station.

Seaion I/7.-Cape .Hatteras to Ocracoke Inlet.

.6~tch

.IJ.
Distance.

I

Latitude.
0 ,
II

/

Longitude. ·
0
I ,,

Azimuth.
0

I

, ,,
02 30 10 50 31 04 43 42

I

To station-

Back azimuth. ! Distance.
0
I

I

Distance. Yards.

,,

E ast Inlet .................

-

West Inlet ·········.······
ed Lump

35 11 52.80 \E. 0 27 50.75 188 - 254 I 35 11 08.591 0 26 2'2.63 201 247 35 12 17.87 35 10 07.25 35 09 45.77 35 08 52.96 35 07 14.52 3508 39.32 I 35 06 31.63 35 !J6 33.61
-

Egg Shoal ·.······ - -· ..····. Porpoise ··.···············. Egg Shoal. ·.···.··· - - - · - ·.. Porpoise ··.·········.·····.

8 02 51 74 12 11 21 32 16 67 45 54

: Metres. 6746.0 3710.4
8644.8 6265.9

7377.2 4()57.6 9453.7 6852.2 8321.4 13148.0 5223.4 5573.6 8559.1 7676.2 2329.7 7458.2 7199.0 7059.3 4751.1 8962.4 5050.9 4427 .5 6987.8 7697.8
40SJ..4 Wi7.7

Kdu. 4.19 2.31

5.37 3.89 4.73 7.47
2.97

.............

0 91 33 90 0 23 15.55 0 18 07.34 0 19 01.68 0 15 10.88 0 12 53.77 0 12 16.08
O II Ol.48

286 16 16 240 32 28 147 26 07 248 12 50 265'·'07 32 2'28 05 35 139 48 07 250 22 10 242 32 28 223 46 00 300 57 59
255 30 26

West Inlet ················. I 106 19 03 Egg Shoal ·················· 60 36 27
Legged Lump · · · . · ········· West Inlet ········ - ·.·····.

I
I

i

7609.0
12G~.0

'

wells' Creek ··············
Clark's Reef··············· Great Swash ··············.

327 25 09

68 14 37 85 10 29 48 07 36 319 47 35 70 24 37 62 34 43 43 47 40 126 59 17 75 33 27
73 23 21

4776.5 5096.7 7826.8 7019.4 2130.3 6820.0 6583.0 6455.3

3.17 4.86 4.36 1.32 4.24 4.09 4.01 2.70 5.09 2.87 2.52
3.97

Wells' Creek ··············. Legged Lump .·.·····.·····. Clark's Reef....···········. Wells' Creek .······.··...···. Great Swash .··············. Clark's Reef. ...·...·...··.. 1st liammock Hill · . · . . . . ...

1st Hammock Hill .····....
Our Reef······ ···-·· ······ Ocraeoke Light-house ······

I

Clark's Reef········ - - ···· - 1st Hammock Hill · - · - · . . ... ~~---·····-··-····--· Our Reef·.· -·- ·.······.·.· - ·

4344.6 8195.6 4618.8 4D48.7 6389.9 7039.1
m2-2 j063.2

253 21 40 '193 37. 36
206 24 29

13 31 58
262534

Middle Ground ····· -······.

243 45 56

1st Hammock Hill ·.....··..

63 48 19
1\)3 59 .31 53 18 04.

4.37 2.32 5.01

Beacoii Ia1and - ······ ······ ' 35 06. 02.87 E. 0 08 38.48

.2!33 58 09
233 '15 37

Middle Grmmd·············· 'Out Reef.·.·............·······

Name of station.

Latitude.

\

Longitude.

East Portsmouth ··········· Shell Island ·········.····· Portsmouth Castle ·········

35 03 65.31 35 06 10.71

O·"

lo·" IE·

I

.Amnuth.
0

To station-

Back uimuth.
0I

Distanoe. Distance. D1stance.
.

o os 38. 73

179 54 20 230 02 17 323 18 06 274 26 41 326 34 18 260 45 20 154 50 10 201 01 05
l
-

'

,,
Beacon Isl11Ud .............. Middle Ground ··········.··. East Portsmouth .·····.····. Beacon Island .···········.. East Portsmouth ············ Beacon Island ·······.····.·

,,

Y11rds. 4298.3 5158.2
5689.7 340i.S 4652.1 2588.2 4519.1 4098.6
.Miles. 2.44 2.93

.Metres.

359 54 20 50 03 39 143 19 17 94 27 52 146 35 11 80 46 13
3..~

3930.5 4716.9 520-2.8 3110.7 4254.0 2366.8 4132.41 3747.9

0 06 36.01 0 07 06.23

3.23 1.93' 2.64 1.47 2.57 2.aa

35 05 50.541

Portsmouth Steeple ······· · J 35 04 09.34 (E. O 07 45.40
!

!
I

IShell Island . · · · · · · ········. Beacon Island ·······.······

49 30 21 01 35

-

Unimi States Coast Sln'vey.-Geogropltical PositWns. $ec1ion P.-C'harleston Harkr.
Name of station.

Sketch .E.
I Distance. /Distance. Yards.

I

Latitude.

I
I

Longitnde.
e

Azimuth.
0
I II

·1 ____

CHARLESTON

HARBOR.I

Q

,

~

:-----i
I II

T_o_sta~o~·o_n--~--i-B-ac_k_llZllil_·_u_th_· (Distance.
0
I II

Metres.

Jr Ju.

Breach Inlet ···········... \ 32 46 19.27 Circular Church ··········.

I 79 48 43.0-2
79 55 38.77

................................................................................................. ---······· ..................................... .
273 45 29
Breach Inlet ·····.········. Breach !niet ...··..·······. Circular Church ··········..

32 46 42.53

93 49 14
45

10842.1
I

11856.6 7470.4 89"25.6 7238.7 5258.3 ' 4207.7 4720.2 9735.2
4.11

V mceut .················· -\ 32 43 42.51
Mount Pleasant ·..··...··.. \ 32 47 13.39 Fort Johnson ·············. Castle Pinckney · · ·······.. Styles .··················.

I 79 51 48.67
79 52 37.61 79 53 34.77 79 54 25.07 79 55 34.41 79 54 11.55

225 00 29
132 48 5U
348 54 06

ro

09

312 46 46

8161.9

6.'331.21

78 36 50 32 45 09.48 32 46 23.92
3'2 45 10.70

Vincent ..·...·.········.·. 168 54 33 Circular Church ···········. 1 258 35 12

6619.31 4808.4 3847.71 4316.31 8902.2 ( 3184.3 I 2830.9 2808.4 4461.1 4428_3

2.99

314

o7

02

131 37 30 270 53 48 241 24 12 177 42 19 218 39 42 30 34 43

V'mceht ·.················. i 134 07 59 Circular Church ·········· · - \ 311 36 23
Breach Inlet ·.··········... ~onnt Pleasant. .............
. I i
I

!

2.39 2.68
5.53 1.98
1.76

t::;
0
(")

90 56 5.'3 61 25 10

3482_3
3!>95.8 3158.7

Crrcular Church .·.·····.··. 1 , 357 42 17 Castle Pinckney ·.········. · j 38 40 20 Circular Church .····.·····. 1 210. 33 fJ6 Castle Pinckney .···.······· 184 33 25
1

I.SO
2.77 2.75

Hobcaw ····.············.
North Base ·····..·······..

32 48 47.23

4 33 33
32 48 48.83 ' 79 56 51.32 32 47 46.38 ! 79 56 14.84 32 47 10.29 79 58 07.14
334 06 3.5

I

South Base ··········.···..

I

270 40 00
334 28 ::l.'3

, Circular Church ..· - · · - .. · · - i 154 07 15 9i) 41 27 ~obeaw ··.·.·...······.··

I

·1

43-24.0 4728.61 415G.2 i ·4::.45.l 2179.0 2145.o

i

i

4842.7

4878.51'

153 44 55

Circular Church . · · · · · . · · · · · i 154 28 53 Nonh Base .············..· · i· 333 44 36 North Base ················· Styles ·········· ,; ,; ·········

I I

I

2.69 2.58
l.35 1.33

2372.9

Crafts.····················

2.13 00 51

33 01 32

312 48 38

132 50 00

3619.81 5419.2

5926.3

:~~:1

2.25

3.37

United States Ooast Survey.-Geographical Po~ SectUm V.-Charleston HarboTA
Name of station. Latitude.
Longitude.
0
I

Sk~h

E .·
Distance.
M"Ju. l.12 O.86

I

Azimuth.
0
I II

,

!

0

,

,,

ti

Ar&enal ··················· \ 32 47 07 .61

79 56 41.62

Fort Motiltrie . · .······.·.. I 32 45 31. i4 Charleston Light........... Beacon, (back of Sullivan's Island.)
Beacon, (south of Fort Motiltrie.)

I

295 16 22 210 14 59

I . To station·1 Back azimuth. o ' " I I Circtilar Church . · · · · · · · · · · . US 16 56
j South Base. . · · · · · · . · · · . · · . .
30 15 14

Distance. Distance.
Metres. 1808.6 1382 .4 Yanls. 1977 .8 1511.8

1~-~~1-~

79 51 14.90 79 52 28.84 79 51 15.87 79 51 10.95 79 49
5~.19

79 37 33 14 43 21 150 51 45 159 57 30
8 23 22
80 33 25 80 41 58

I Fort

Johnson....... · . . . ·.. .

j Vincent................ .. . .
Circular Church . · . · .. . . . . . . Castle Pinckney · · · ··· . · · ·· . Vmcent . . . · . · · . · · · · . . . . · · · . Castle Pinckney · · · · · · · · . · . .

259 36 17 194 43 03
330 50 02

3700.9
3459.4

4047 .2 3783.0 11099.3 9651.I

9.30
2.15

32 41 54.77 32 46 50.54 32 45 29.40
32 45 47,52

3.19 56 27
188 23 04 260 31 43

10149.6 8i325.3

6.31 5.48

5854.7 4990.7
3793.0 3435.6

6402.5 5457.7
4147.9 3757.1 5238.3 2417.0 4276.5
2285.0 4489.7

3.64 3.10
9.36 2.13

16 36 41
36 30 47 243 43 03 171 09 41 91 17 35 308 51 17 278 31 04 24 34 01 6 54 l7 297 52 27 269 01 33
~9

Fort Johnson............... Vincent.... · · · . . . · . · · · · · · · .
Vmcent.... .... .... ·..· ·... Breach Inlet...... · · . . · · · . · . Mount Pleasant............. Fort Johnson....... . · . . . . . .

260 40 40 196 36 21
216 29 48 63 43 44
~l 09 28 271 16 52

Pinckney House, (on Sullinm's Island,)
Fort Sumpter. · ·· ·· · · · · ··· St. Michael's Church.......
Oyster Point..............
White
H~....

4790.l 2210.2
3910.6 2089.5
4105.5 1908.5 3850.4 550S.4
34~.4

2.98
1.37

.

~

32 45 07 .95 32 46 33.11
32 49 40.07 32 49 '9.29
~

79 52 M.52 79 55 37 .60 79 55 13.!U 79 56 08.06
79 &> 1.0.00

2.43 1.30 2.55 1.19 2.39
3.4~

Fort Johnson............... Castle Pinckney . · · · . . . · · . . .
South Base..... . · · · · . . · · · · . Circqlar Clnuch . · · · . . · · · · · . Hobcaw. · . · · . · · · ·. ·· . · · . · · Oyster Point . · · · · · . · · · · · · . ·
~t\l. ~~- ··· ··· ···· ······ C\l:~ ~\\.w:c\\ ······ , · -. · · ·

128 52 23 98 31 43 204 33 28 186 54 03 117 53 30 89 02. 03
1.11>2 W 02.
\~

2807.l
4210.7
6023.8

···· ·· ···.

1424.0

3749.2 1007 .2
~74~.5

2.13 0.89 . l.<>B
~-&-~

lle\-vi.i\ere Mill.............

49 In .69

2. &I m> <\O 'f>\.

'21)()7.S

4,\

~

o\~'\.il

~9.7

Name of atation.

Latitude.

0

I

,,

I

Longitude.
0
I

Azimuth.

To station-

I_ Back

azimuth. { DistBDCe. { Distance. {Distance.
I

Wappoo ·················. Cotton Factory · · · · · · · ····. Flynn's Church ···········. Hog Island Beacon .····.··· Gram Church ············· Orphans' Asylmn ·········· Gibbes' Observatory, Charleston.

32 46 10.11 32 47 45.03 32 47 18.07 32 46 55.54 32 46 52.01 32 47 08.68 32 4.7 05.33

79 57 24.64 79 55 52.45 79 55 49.33 79 54 41.85 79 55 58.56 79 56 0-2.25 79 55 59.81

"

0

I

,,
Circular Church ·· - - - ······· Arsenal ···· - · ···- ·.··· - -··. Castle Pinckney ·· - - · · · - - - ·. Oyster Point. ········ - ··· - · Hobcaw ·········· - ··· - ·· - . Styles .···················.

0

250 03 39 212 17 11 317 42 01 196 01 43 2-22 47 55 354 20 44 22 57 31 335 51 04 348 36 37 218 06 03 348 43 26 268 25 36 148 17 40
J

70 04 36 32 17 34 137 42 48 16 02 04 42 48 48 174 20 52

"

Metres.

Yards.

M"ilu.

2931.0 2094.5 3377.8 3687.3 3743.6 3942.3 3506.8 1067 .1 3183.0 4510:8 3705.5 5326.6 121.0

3205.3 2290.5 3693.9 4032.3 4093.9 4311.2 2834.9 1066.9 3480.8 ~-9 4052.2 - 5825.0 132.3

1.8"2 1.30 2.10 2.29 2.33 2.45 2.18 0.66 1.98 2.80 2.30 3.31 0.08

Styles ········· - · ·· · · ·· · · · · 1 202 57 03 Castle Pinckney ·.· - - · · ····· 155 51 13 Styles ···················.. Hobcaw ··················· Mount Pleasant ·····.······.

I Styles .··················.·
Orphan .A.sylmn ······.······

I

168 36 50 38 (f1 01 168 43 41
88 Zl Z'I

3"28.17 40

SAVANNAH, GA.
Savll.llnah Exchange Spire ···

32 04 53.36

8105~

lb '$S

·---·· ........ ,.....................-. ······ ........................... ..... . ....... .. .. . .. .. .. -- .. -- -- --...............

United States Oomt Survey.-Geographical Positi.ons.
Name of station.

Section VL-FloriJa Keys.

Sketch F.

I

X..tltudo.

Longitude.

~-------------;~----\-----!~~-------~ 0 , ,, 0 0

FLORID.A. KEYS.

, ,,

I

Azimuth.

To-·~

"""k ""'m·<h.
Q '

IDIBtm~.
Metres.

Distance. Distance.

, ,,

1~--~1----1---~
II

Yards.

M"&les.

Key West to Marquesas. Sand Key ..···.········...
West Crawfish Key.... ···.

24 27 09.51 24 32 16.16

w.: : ::~
0 00 58.10 0 05 53.51 0 06 57.32

Tift's Observat-0ry...... ···.
East Crawfish Key.........

24 33 31.13 E. 0 04 12.27
24 33 39.95 24 38 24.62 24 34 13.72 24 34 40.07 24 33 37.93 24 32 58.10
'2.\
~ ~

r·:· ~-~;··· ·::~;:: : : : : : : : : ··;;~· ~-~··· -~:~· . ··;;~;:;· . . .;:~ I
31 IO 55 732501

Sand Key.................. WestCrawfishKey .·.···.·..

2110911 2532307

13721.1 8074.3 5470.2 12150.7 9467 .9 12072. 7

15005.0
88-29.8

8.53 5.0'2

272 49 58 7 45 24 17 30 37 43 30 40 74 15 12

Tift's Observat-Ory....... ·.·. Sand Key.................. Tift's Observatory........... East Crawfish Key . · · · · . · . . . Tift's Observat-0ry....... · . . . N. W. Boca Chica..........
N. W. Boca Chica........... Tift's Observatory...........

9-2 51 18 187 45 00

598'2.l
l~ .7

3.40 7 .55 5.88 7.50
3.00
-~

N. W. BocaChica...... ··.. East Point................
Fleming's Key .·····.····..

197 29 54 2"23 28 37

10353.8 1320-2.4 5276.8

166 54 50

254 14 04 346 54 23
15 27 54 203 49 56 70 49 59 261 56 03 261 15 09 59 <\2 00
2.65 12. 41 ~ "1 ~

4825.3 79-25.2 7168.0 2318.7 33.'i2.9 1491.8 8500.6 4611L3
80&>.0 1.6&>.0

8666.8
7838.7 2535.7

4.!r2 4.45 1.44
2.08 0.93 5.28 2.86

o 04

45.57

I

I
l

195 27 25 23 50 IO

u. s. Barracks ······· -----·
Key West Light ···········
Old "Beiwon ················

0 05 04.77

250 49 12 81 56 24
81 17 13 239 41 01
\.~

E11St Point . . . · · . . . . . · · . .· . . Tin's Observatory........... West Crawfish Key . . · . . · · · . East Point .··· ··· .····· ···.
WelltCTI1....UahKey ·········
~ .. O\>t.e~~---········

3656.6 1631.4
9-296.0 5041-7
~l.5

0 04 35.87 \

01. F... 0 04. '23.59

&> 1.4. 46 '&1 '&l)

. 1.%?.n.S

___ N_am_e_of_stati __ ·o_n._ _ ,__ La_titu_de_._, __ Lo_Dgl_·m_d_e_.
0 , ,,

_,I__ Azim_· _u_th_.__
0 , ,,

____ 1

~_o_st_a_tio_n__ _ _ _ _&c __ k_8Zllll_· _u_th_. / Distllllce. [ Distance.
1

Distllllce.
Mila.

0

,

,,

a
Tift's Observat-0ry .·····.···. N. W. Boca Chica .·······.·.
1

, ,,

I
1

Metres.
53~.9

Rocky Point .······ -------Western Sambo ········ --··

24 33 03.26 E. 0 07 19.2"2 24 28 47.10
24 34 58.16

99 16 01 166 18 o-i
133 56 34 79 31 13

219 14 43 346 17 26

1 10176.5
12596~2

Yards. 5828.6 11128.7 13774.9 17995.8 9182.8 8109.1
8600.5 8458.0

3.30 6.32

0 09 34.60
0 03 37.47

Tift's Observatory .·. - - - - - - - · 313 54 20 Sand Key.---· --- --- ···.··· ·\ 259 27 15

I

7.83
10.22
5.2"2

16456.0 8397.1 7415.2 7864.6 7734.3 7901.3 15048.4 15023.2 128-29.2

Wreck of the Frankford .·..
Bank in N. W. ChllllD.eL...

53 36 15 211 03 21
216 54 54 49 15 30

N. Crawtish Key._. __ .·····. N. W. Boca Chica ···..·····.

233 34 35 31 04 19
36 56 04 2"29 14 04 1511151 72 58 39

4.61

24 35 00 27 E. 0 03 05.52 24 36 01.19 W.O 02 38.04' 24 33 22.20

N. W. Boca Chica........... W. Crawtish Key .········ _..

4.89 4.81
4.91

~

Cotteral's Key.............

331 10 55 252 55 06

W.CrawtishKey .···.······. N. W. Boca Chica ....·.. ____
N. W. Boca Chica........... Tift's Observatory. __ ._. ____ ·
N. W.BocaChica........... Tift's Observatory .· _........

8640.6 16456.5 16428.9 14029.6

9.35
7 .ff! 9.69 7.0"2 1.47 8.66
6.72

Major Bache's Station on Cotteral's Key.
Mullet Key ·············.··

0 02 43.62 . 2.'>5 27 01 294 11 44
0 02 22.82 0 00 25.2"2 243 28 13 280 31 15

75 30 36 114 14 37

9.33

~

·

24 34 38.38
24 33 22.84 24 32 39.30

63 31 40 100 33 59
178 16 56 49 54 08 81 32 28 160 29 30 81 27 14 100 34 30
41 33 20 358 36 35

15599.l
11307 .1 2360.4 13930.7
10811.4 10764.5

17058.7
12365.1
2581.3 15234.2 11823.U 11771. 7

A.........................
B ..··············.·.··.·.. c ---------· --------------

358 16 56
2-29 51 31

W. Crawtish Key .····· -----N. W. Boca Chica .······· --T"Ift's Observatory .·.· _ . · · · · . Sand Key ·... --··..........

0 02 07.74 . 261 29 50 340 28 37 0 0-2 22.87 261 24 30 280 33 40 221 31 28 178 36 37

6.69 6.99 2.14
7.11 3.89

24 32 36.67

Tift's Observatory........... W. Crawfi.sh Key............
Tift's Observat-Ory ········· _.

11244.5 3439.9
11442.0 6259.5

12295.6 3761.8 12512.6 6845.2

MiddleGround.............

24 28 52.75 W.O 00 17.31

W.CrawtishKey ············

·United State& Coast Survey.-Geographical Pontions.
Name of-station.

Section VL-Florida Keys.
To station-

Sketch

F.

I

Latitude.
0
I II

Longitude.
0
I II

I

.Azimuth.
0
I
fl

I

IBaek azimuth.
0 , ,,

Distance. Distance. Distance.
Mans.

Rock Key .··.···········..

24 Z'I 18.30 E. 0 01 11.32

203 56 06 82 19 56

Tift's Observatory .·········· Sand Key .···········.····.
Sand Key .····...·········. Tift's Observatory ..··.······

23 57 21 262 19 26

12550.2
2/J-26.8

Yards. 13724.5 2"216.5 3908.4 12535.2 19023.5 5496.5
10-249.2 6955.9

M"tlM.

7.80
1.26

Eastern Dry Rocks ········.
Western Dry Rocks........ WomanKey...............

24 Z'I 37:1'9 E. O 02 03.10 24 26 43.70 IW.O 02 56.23 24 31 44.70
24 31 29.76
0 0-2 22.79

75 55 09 198 29 11
223 52 33 260 54 06
3.34 35 26 326 15 43

255 54 18 18 30 05 43 55 31 80 55 19 154 36 25 146 16 36 279 05 IO 4 58 24 Z'/8 37 48 10 04 49 76 17 00 79 00 27 76 50 33 161 40 05 51 06 23 20 07 52

3574.0 11462.6 17395.8 S0-26.2 9372.2

2.22
7.12

Tift's Observatory........... Sand Key . . · · . · . · · . · . · · · . . . Sand Key . · . · · . · . · · · · . · · . · . Middle Ground...... · · · · · · . · Boca Grande. . · · · · · · · · . · · · · Cotteral's Key . . · · · · · · · · · · · . Man Key....... · · . . · . . . · . . · Cotteral's Key.... · . . · . · · . . . Tift's Obserratory ..····.···. 1 W. Crawfish Key .·········.· 1 Cotteral's Key ····.···.·..·. Man Key ..···.····.·..···. -1

10.80 3.12
5.82 ·3.95 5.05 5.21 1.79 5.65

6360.7
8129.9 8382.0

Wom1111. Key, WeSt. ···· ····
WreekofBrigMoreno(head.)

0 03 03.86
0 03 34.64 0 05 15.76

99 07 09
184 58 13
98 38 30

8890.6 9166.3
3148.2 9952.0

.
n
0

t:;

24 31 09.95 24 31 24.00 24 35 09.93
24 32 11.57 24 31 45.82 \

190 04 26

2878.8 9100.5 16456.8 840-2.1
6921.5 732-2.5 11247.1

Him Key..........
Lavina

.. . . . .. .

256 13 05

17996.7
9188.3

258 58 25

Bank..............

0 06 37.63

256 48 53

341 39 31

l
I

10.23 5.22
4.30

7569.1 8007.7
12"299.5 6390.9

4.55

Boca Grande............... Boca Grande, Ea.st..........
Mule Key ·················

0 07 49.10
0 0'115.79
()4

231 04 13 200 07 2"2

Cott<Jral's Key ..····.·.·..·· Lavina Bank .··············· \

6.99
3.63
0.76 3.96 IL33 4.66

584.t.1
1227.2
6i70.6
~4.6.7

\~ 34 46.'2.U ~-0

'2.'2..~

130 12 Z'I 189 42 11
'2.'31. \'£ \)9
\)()
~

Boca Grande · · · · · . . · . . · · . · . 310 12 12 Lavina. Ilank. · . · · · · · . · . . . · . · . 9 42 Z1
Cotte,,a.-r" K.ey · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
~....

1342.0
0066.7

\'>1. \'>9 4'3
~

'51:.

Gl:a.n.i\.e. · · · · · · ·.· · · · · · ·

"'31 -?.\\

7\)()1..'3

Nmno 11fkt111.io11. llll1·11i1uslls, Al!'lllL ····.····. Mu.rqucs11s, Butu. ..····.··.. Marquesas, Gamma .········

Lntituilo.

c

I

,,

-

Longituclo.
0
I II

-

Aidmnt.b.
0
I II

I

'l'o Htlltion-

Dnck nzhuuth. Dis tu nee.
0

.,

II

·-----/rfclTCS ·

Dist1mce. Distance."

..

}

1

t1Tf/S.

24 :J4 23.87 W.O 13 21.!)9

203 28 04' 262 52.40 210·54 50 252.14 31 300 51 ~9" 2uG u.s 49 345·

Bi1c1L Gmn11o . · · . . . · · · · . · · · · · 113 30 23

Lu.viu1i:lfa11k .···...········. Alpl1i1 .·.···.···..·········. Lu.\·hm 'Hunk .....·.···.····. Betn·..· .'., ..····.·········· . Alpha ·····..····..···..···.

82 o5 28 30 55 14 72 17 44

..

1021.3.4' 11463.!l 320L8 13671.3 .4619:8 5622:7 4179:0 '
4828~2

lllCi!Ll·

Miles. 6,g4·
7·~12

12536.6 3501'.4 ]4!J00:5 5052.1 6148.8· 457i:LO 5280:0 2104.5 3258.3 2654.S 2792.1

24 :12 54.59
24 34 11.63

0 14 20_.45 0 lG 41.39 0 1G 04.05 0 15 28.43

l.99 8.49 2.87 3.49 2:60 3.00 L19
r~s5

.
Mo.rqucsas, Delta .······· -· Marquesas, Epsilou .········ Marqucso.s, '!'beta .·······.. : CAPE FLORIDA AND KEY .l:HSCAYNE DAY.

-

120 52"27 "86 10 12 108 17 3fl

24 35 13.11 24 33 01.44

,15

58

288 16 32

Alpha .·.··.··.···.········..

Epsil~lu ····. _··· _.·········. 1- 1.6~ 46 '.13
96 11 18 3i6· 26 _47 81 14.os 7 47 33

~'
.

276 i6 50
136 27 17 261 13 32 187 47 28

Be.ta:.···· ;.: ··············. Gainnio..··· _·····.··.·· _···.

19'24-.4 2979.o 2427.6 2553:2

.

G.

~
... _

~-

24 3.'? 49.41 w.o 16 53.69

~~~! :.:·:·::: :::::: ::::.::::

1.51 1:59

) Ca~ Florida Statio!!J·····.
;'
Capo
~"lorido.

25 39 52.18

0 00 00.00

Light-house ··.

25 39 55.85 w.o 00 00.41 25.35 23.23

.-...... ·--. -·- -. .......................................... ............ -.......... . . .. .... . .. . -- -.... ---... - ......... ·.·· '
354 12 13
:

Capo F101ida Station ·······.

174 12 -13 3 3.0 57

113:6

124.2

0.07

. Elliott's Beach ············. 25

Soldier Koy .· .-····

......... -

.,

0 00 18.22 w.o 05 36-.66

183 30 49

..

Cap~ Florida 'st: ..···..····.
C1q1e Flol'ida St....·.·....·. Soldier Key : ······· - ······· Cape Florida:St..· ;; ···· _._. : Elliott's Bcai;h ····· ~-· ···_ ·· ,

8291.1

..

9ooo.9 10702.6 1.5498:6 5546.5
~09i'0.9

5.15
6-.08

41·~.18

286 24-58 ~l 10.35
)

106 27·24 141 12. 35, 184 19 35~i>~ 47 39,

9786.8 14172.5 5'07l:9 10032.2 .,,, ·: r

8.81
a·.15
-~ -~

. '- ,~-w·
~~
IW.<k!

:Key Biscayne ·············.

/~ cnJ ~I~

~u · . ,. ;1=-- CYPt;~. .R..p

25 42.36.54 E. 0 00 13.73

419·42 7.6·/;l_Q ~l,

/.f Mr

".J"E:i!;;t?/:J.

-~ <Y /1r.r)

6.23

~

···,··

Ullited Scates Coast S~rve!].~Geograpki~ Positions.
N:t.me of station.
BelU' Cut..................

Section VL-Key Biscayne Bay.
To station-

Sketch F.

I

Latitude.\I-_Lo_n_gi_·tu-de_._J.----0111 O'" 25 44 08.93 IE. O 00 39.98

Back azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distance. J Distance.
0 ' "

Cape Florida St ..·· :;:; ··· ;: Elliott's Beach..............
··.....·. Cape Florida St .... _ Elliott's Beach ·.·····.····.

188 01 45 243 55 54 75 57 09 20 37 33 55 31 16 309 11 35

Metres. 7978.4 llti85.4
11873.8
604~.5

Yards. 8724.9 127id.8
12984.8 6609.6 4316.8 8657.3 8343.4 8074.6 6983.2 5254.9 10493.6 5873.0 2768.6· 6249.8 7470.0

Miks. 4-!l6 7 .26
7.38 3.76 2.45 4.9-2 4.74 4.59 3.97 2.99

Shoal Point ···

·····y·····

25 38 18.35 W.O 06 52.97 25 38 39.55 25 42 36.61 25 44 14.10 25 45 26. 00 25 43 33.67 25 46 15.64 25 45 00.01 25 44 10.38 \
25

PelU'l Oyster Bank......... West Point................ Cormorant Point...........
Lewis. Point. · · · · · · · · · · · · · .

0 01 56.67 0 01 15.60
0 03 30.28 0 0-2 0-2.02 0 00 10.15
0 01 55.49

Cape Florida St ..····.··..·. Elliott's Beach ······..····. Elliott's Beach ...·....····. Pearl Ofster Bauk .····..··. Elliott's Beach . . ..·..·.··.. West Point .···············. Elliott's Beach .·.·.···.···. West Point ..···..·····.····

3947.4 7916.5 7629.5 73133.7 6385.7 4805.3 9595.8 5370.5 2531.7 5715.0

252 30 58 188 55 11
213 39 06 128 38 23 218 33 20 166 03 56

I

5.96 3.34
1.57 3.55

Northwest Point ··········. lfumrl ···········.·····.·. Miruni Channel Mark .·····. Virginia Key .·..·..·..··..
Southwest l'oint .······.·..

46 06 40 I West Point. . · · · · . . · . · · · · · . . 226 06 12 . . . . · . · . · . . · . . Cormorant Point... · . · · · · · · . . ·······..·.·. 350 37 45 329 29 52 348 52 57 314 38 08 28 14 41 346 21 31 West Point ·.··.····.·····. Northwe~t Point ··········..
j West Point. ·.·..·...··.·.. \ Northwest Point ····..··.··.

170 38 06 149 30 38

6830.8

0 01 46.70 0 00 19.99
01 17 .&>

168 53 11 134 38 50
20S 14 17

n oo.oo

\w .o

\ West Point ·.···...···.·.·. Northwest Point ····.······.
F.111.ott'" "Beach · · ··········. \ 'West. Yo'mt ················

;i\I
3"275.5

6326.1
4917.8 4135.9 358'2.0
1272.0
7915.4. '304.9.5

4.2.t 3.60

2.79
2.35
2.04

166 21 35
273 55 4.3 110 4.3

1163.2
7238.1 \
'.n88.\'i

0.72
4..50 1.n

1

1 _________ ,_____ I
: 0 ' "

N ~e of station.

Latimde.

Lonoitud ,,,. e.
o ' "

·---------------1 "'"'"' aznnut . / .u..,, ance.
Azimnth.
o ' "

1 /

To station-

/u

__ ,_

·

h / n:_t

Distance. Distance.
Yards. llfiles.

:---->---~----

Beasler-----·----·--------1 25 4318.94 Channel Barrel, (C. Florida)!

:w.o 05 17.44
0 01 40.05 0 00 31.03
0 00 19.28 0 06 34.66 0 02 02.88

305 41 34 278 01 30 106 00 25 1891529 2512410 109 46 18 187 34 55 359 35 54
206 34 25 267 33 49 196 46 24 151 46 52

Key BlScayne......... ..··..

i o Cape~oridaSt----·········1125

'

"

I Mdres.
10899.5 9322.7 6862.7 4236.1 912.8 90!'>4.6 4075.6 4235.7
· 3614.8 11015.2

43 51 98 03 54

11919.4 10195.0 7504.9 4532.5 998.2 9901.8 4457 .0 4632.0 3953.0 12045.9 11066.0 lb714.3 14157 .8 13340.6 12363.0 10063.6 15773.9 14711.5
51:>84.l 158-J!>.9

6.77 5.79 4.26 2.63 0.57 5.63 2.53 2.63 2.25 6.84 6.29 10.63 8.04 7 .58 7.02 5.72 8.96 8.36
3.34 8.99

I

25 40 20.73

Elliott"sBeach .....·...·.... \ 285 58 43 WestPoint·--··-·----·--··! 91540 CapeFloridaSt ..·.·........ I 7124 23 Elliott'sBeach .............. 289 44 06

Channel Stake,(C. Florida)-i 25 39 42.72

I

:Middle

Bank-----·-------·

25 37 40.89
25 39

CaPt'. Florida St ...·... ·-- __ .\ SoldierKey ....·.·....... --1 Elliott'sBeach ..···.....··.. ! CapeFloridaSt .....·...·... :

7 35 03 1793553
26 24 50 873640

JllIJles' Cree.It. - - · -- - - . - - - - .

37.11

Sands" Point. ·····. --·· .·..
Black Point · -· ··. - . - -- - · - .

25 30 08.371 25 3"2 07.51

I
I
,1

I

Soldier Key ...··. ____ .. ___ . i 16 47 09 Shoal Point.·---·---·-----·\ 33144 47 Sands' Point .··... _--· __ . __ . i 106 28 36 Shoal Point .·· __ ... __ ·.. __ . · 1 20 43 17 Sands"Point...··...··...·.. ; 150 25 50 BlackPoint ...·....···.·... ' 2"?:'15513 Soldier Key .··... ·----·.... Sands' Point ...... ·----·---Soldier Key . _.. ___ . _. ____ . _ Black Puint .·· _·. ______ ____ Soldier Key ..··.. ·----·---· Sands' Point .··.·. ---------80 27 17 12"2 49 58

I

10119.1 17113.1 12946.4 12199.1 11305.2 9-20·2.5 14424.1 13452.7 5380.6 14475.4 12360.7 7034.5

o 09 27.60

286 25 24 200 42 10
330 24 24 47 56 r,s

Black Ledge-----· --- - ---- 1 25 35 21 .89 Hunting Grounds·---·----Ragged Key, No. 1. ·..· --··

o 05 22.81
0 08 47 .91

25 34 05.25 25 32 30.69

i
!

260 23 37
3(;'2

47 03

I
I

o oo

49 68

West Featherbed Bank ····. \ 25 31 12.90

iw.o 06 04.53 I I

139 23 15 87 12 21 23J 26 00 286 22 44

9 23 30 267 08 38 51 28 29 106 24 29

13517.3 769'..l.7

I

7.68 4.37

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station.

Section VL-Key 'Biscayne Bay. Sketch J;'.
To stationBack azimuth. \ Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
0
I

Turkey Point. ············.

I

I

Latitude.
0
I

Longitude.
0
I

.Azimuth.
0
I
II

,,

,,

25 26 17.13 ~.o 09 39.79 0 07 54.03 0 C5 28.32 0 01 14.43 0 03 21.96 0-02 10.43 0 10 22.97

240 49 57 181 .....
4~

JS..

Sands' Point ···············. Black Point ................ Sands' Point ................ Black Point ................ Sands' Point ................ Turkey Point ··············· Soldier Key ................ Black Point ................ Sands' Point ................ Turkey Point ............... Black Point ................ Turkey Point ............... Black Point ................ Turkey Point ............... Black Point ................ Turkey Point ...............

60 53 14 148.;M56 18 34 345 38 19 25 58 21 303 36 42 7 40 09 29'2 14 15 14 42 46 277 00 15 300 18 20 253 48 18 22 37 46 170 19 23 13 43 43 149 31 27

"

Matfa:6
14~

1ZS1.'0
~

Milfs.
9. 6.70 7. 33 6.55 8.15 5.25 7.31 9.:.!5 5.41 6.61 8.79 8.12 2.50 4.46 5.13

It-()

10786.4 11790.4 10539.1 13111.1 8438.8 11766.3 14879.9 8701.2 10636.0 14142.5 13069.4 4018.8 7173.8 8263.3 3195.21

11795.7 12893.6 11525.3 14337.9
9'2'i8.4

1'<lioon - - - -- -- - -

------1

25 26 35.69 25 23 45.24

236 16 03 165 38 59 205 56 55 123 38 30 187 39 45 112 17 47 194 42 12 97 0-2 57 120 21 28 73 51 31
202 37 22

Rubicon Point ............. Elliott's Key, No. 1 ··.······ Elliott's Key, No. 3 ········. Coon Point ................

25 29 04.25
25 25 34.84 25 28 15.40

12867.3 1626'2.2 9515.4 11631.21 15465.81 1429'2.3 4394.9 I 7845.1 l I 9036.51 3494.21

Fender Point .............. 1 25 30 06.96

Convoy Point .............. j 25 27 46.62 W.O 10 37 .80

I
I

350 l!J 05 193 43 13 3-29 31 02

I

1 .

I

1.99

_,,.
_.,,
~

/

----------1--0--,-,,-1 D I' { E. End 30 15 02.38 IW.O 06 51.09 ... -~ .. ~_.': .. .I._ ..... ·-~··~-~ ............. '... -~--~._':... W.End 301427.48 01327.90 2&1 11 19.4 Base East.~·-··,........... 84 14 39.3
0 , ,,

N111De of station.

Latitude.

/ Longitude.

Azimuth.

To station-

I

Baek azimuth. / Dist.ance. / Distance. /Distance.

AUPimi

DBAsE

M~res. ! -~~~: .. ..·. ~~1C661.7 11659.3 6.62
1(214.3
~172.5

~Cat

Island...... ··· ·· . .·. .

30 19 02.2"2

O 11 15.18
0 05 53.84 0 00 00.00 0 17 28.39

Cedar Point .···.···.····..

30 20

50.4~

31616 59.2 2"2 45 22.7

Base East ····· :.:'~ ···.····.· Base West.................

1361912.4 202 44 15.7
I

11170.0 10030.8 11838.6 18501.3
23657 .2

6.34 5.70
6.73 10.51 13.44 9.99 9.70 7.16 11.62 9.2.'i 12.38
11.S"/

8 07 37.6 45 50 50.8
93 15 32.1 143 59 45.9
335 41 27.7 300 03 54.5 277 27 19.8

Base East ···············... , 188 07 08.7 Base West .··············.. 225 47 0-2.2

Fort Morgan .····.··......

30 13 48.23
1

.Point aux Pines . ·····.·····. I ,
P<lit Boi.-----·· ·-···· ·-·
/

Base West ·.·····.······... 1 273 08 45_3 Cedar Point. .··...··...·... , 323 56 47.5
Base West .·.·············. ! 155 43 29.1 Cat Island .·..·....········. I 120 07 04.1 Cedar Point .··..··.·..··... 97 33 10.7

I 21633.0 lt.074.6
mm .1
lj519.0 lt;705.6 l·S82.4 1!19-28.6
1!1100.1 1: 311.2 1:;641.5
I

1(825.6 U918.3

17578.7 17078.4 12596.8 20455.9 16275.0 21793.3

·

00

30 22 09.791

0 ?
0

.1

30 12 15.281

0 22 23.26 0 23 50.78

Grande Batture ············ ! 30 19

i

254 05 26 .4 203 16 02 .1 299 19 45.8 244 29 44.4 350 07 2"2. 3
278 45 40.9 223 17 41.4 273 40 42.8 321 12 20.8 8 45 34.0 354 30 19.8 296 30 48.6

Base West .····...······.·· Point aux Pines .....··...... Base West ..········.······ Point aux Pines ... .......·.. Petit Bois ··............·...
Petit Bois .·.··..··.·..·.... Grande Batture .··.·······.·

74 09 55.8 23 18 30.8 119 25 09.9 64 32 57.4 170 08 06.4 98 49 47.6 43 21 04.4

I

31.781

20887.3 12369.6 14917.9
14505.5 17153.3

7.03 8.48

Horn Island East ·········· .,, Bayou Casotte ············.

30 13 21.15

30 19 50.49 \

I

l

0 30 33.50 0 29 24.41

8.24 9.75
5.55 11.17 7.54 8.46 2.19

_,,.

East Pwscagoula ··········

·I

I

I ao 20 41.51 jw.o 31 22.~

Grande Batture ············. 93 43 31.3 Petit Bois .················· I 141 15 53.0 Horn Island East ....·..... -1 188 45 03.9

13929.5 1""975.5 1!!129.3 1:1621.7 3518.1

9765.0 19657.5 13-264.2 14896.3 3847.3

&you Ca.sott.e ··············

Horn Island East .·····.··. · j 174 30 44.4 116 31 48.2

United States Coast Suruy.-Geograpkical Positi011!.
Name of station.

Secti01t VIIL-J.lfolnle Bay.
To station-

Sketch H.

~~~~~~~~~~~--~~-l-~~~~-·-~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~-1-~~~~-

I I
I

Latitude.

Longitude.

Azimuth.

I

I

Bliek az.imuth.

Di"""·
5264-3 19986.8
5885.8

\-.1
Yards.
6756.9

nw...,..
'

MOBILE BAY.

I

0

I

'1

0

>

H

Q

I

U

0

I

II

Miles.

Sand Mand Light. - ·.·.···. l 30 11 17 .62
Pelican Island . . · · ... · .·. . . Mobile Point Light .······· 30 13 15.52 30 13 45_64 30 14 56-51

w.o

01 33.16

208 14 14 107 03 25
308 04 04 261 55 52

Fl'rt Morgan .·······.· _··. _ \Vest Base---···----· ..... . Saud Island Light.._ ... - · · . . Fort Morgan ··········· ··-FortMorgan ···· -·--·-······ Pelican Island ............ - -

286 57

28 15 01 2.'l

21857.0
6436.6 7866.7 134. 7 7754.9

3.21 12.42
3.66 4.41

0 64 26-38 0 00 03-44

128 05 31 8l 58 06 48 27 17 262 28 47

1193.611
123.2 7091.4
10708.4 11012.0

·I

228 27 15 82 31 00
308 59 04

o.os
4.41

Camp Dauphin_ - ··· - - _··· -

0 06 44_33

280 58 40 294 03 21 157 16 51
60 14 37

Sand Island Light....... · · . . · 129 01 41 Fort Morgan .······.······· -1 101 02 04 Fort Morgan--~---· ·.·· ···· 114 04 54 Cedar Point .··.·······.·.·. i 337 15 23
f Sand Island Light -........ - · J IMO 11 57 Fort Morgan _············. · 1 267 40 18

11710.4 12042.4 5908.8 12801.0 10748.3 6&J8. 7 6003.7 11779.1

6.6.5 6.84
3.:)6

g.t:t
·

Dauphin Island East........ Mobile Beach- ······ ------

30 14 59-80 W.O 03 04-54 30 13 56-It( E.O 03 45-85

i

5403.2 11705.7 98-28.6 6043.2 6093.5 10171.l

7.27

I»

Navy Co;e ··· · ·· . · · .· . · . . .

30 14 45.81

'
1E.

&7 42 11

6.11 3.75
S.79 6.66

0 03 33_09

73 06 19 9'2 19 20
70 37 39 28 44 24

Fort Morgan ..····.·······. 253 04 30 Dauphin Island East- ······. - 1 9'4 17 25
Cedar Point_ ···.·····.·· ·- · Fort Morgan_·············11

YulletPoint ..·.··..····..· \30 24 45_53
Poiut Juliet............... 30 2-i 58-20

0 06 55.00

"Fo"'\~i'ie-rl:'o\nt........... ~ ~

'l1-.l;I)

\w.o 05 00.71 \w_o ~

250 31 11 20840 ... 55

l3.52
14.31

260 08 07
3'M 35 55

Mullet Point.···········.··. , 80 14 09 · :E'urt -Yorgim .·····.·.····. _\ 154 38 27 _
M_ul\et1'o\ut............ .... -Pomt J ul\.et · · · · .. ·· · · · · · · · ·

12.(14
11.65
1~-00 e..~

'M.14

uo n
1-&:.

4i

~ ~

Name of station.

Latitude.
Q
I /I

Longitude.
0 , "

Azimuth.
0
I
(I

To stationMullet Point ....·.·....· - . . . Fowl River Point....... ··.. Great Point Clear. . · . . . . . . . . Fowl River Point....... ·...

Back azimuth.
0
I II

Distance. Mttres. 8447.4 15403.3
17214.9 1412"2.7 14059.9 11491.5
15174.3 16729.9 19!l"20.7 6122.2

I

Distance. Dis!allce.
lards. ~237 .8 16844.6

I

Great Point Clear ······ -··· Dog :1liver Point ......·.·..

30 29 04.57 E. 0 05 10 .69

Wl 45 38 85 06 48
315 59 30 13 52 15
94 27 47

160 46 31 265 01 56
136 03 18 193 51 11

Miles. 5.25 9.57 10.70 8.77

3) 35 46.90

w.o 02

17 .80

188"25.7
15444.2 15375.5 1256ti.8

Bagged Point...·..·..· - ...
DeerRiwrPoint ·.·. .·....
Alabama City.............. Choctaw Point ..·· _.. . · . · · .

30 35 11.66 E. 0 06 28-43 30 32 25.17 W.O 03 29.21

10 23 35

Dog River Point . · · · · . . . · · · . Great Point Clear .... - · · · . . .
Great Point Clear..... . . . . . . Ragged Point. . . . · . · . . · · · . · .
Fowl Ri"\"er Point . · · . . . · · · · .

274 23 20 190 22 55 114 03 23 72 ll 52
250 07 52

8.74
7.09

293 58 59 252 06 48
70 13 00

16594.2 18-295.3

9.43 10.39 12.00 3.80 9.13
(0

30 31 54.37 E.-0 06 56.95 30 40 ll.21 W. 0 00 41.57

21128.5
6695.1
16079.0 9331.0

172 52 29
308 49 23

P..agged Point . . . . · · . . . . · . . . .
P.agged PoinL .···.·...·· ! . . Dog River Point ·.· ·. . .··.·.

352 52 15

17 29 00
Point Zeb ·····..······..·· Garrow'sBend............. Choctaw Point Light....... Apalaeha Rirnr ..···.·····.
Vessel Point .··.·····.·· -~~

128 53 02 197 28 11 176 12 05 288 26 37
97 13 12 52 54 21 128 48 28 108 26 30

14703.2 8532.6

5.30
3.44 7 .Z'/

.

30 38 10.98 E. 0 0614.67 - 356 11 58 108 30 09 30 39 07.04 W.O 02 19.69
3\l 40 ll.06 W.O 00 42.53

Ragged Point............... Choctaw :Point...... . . · . . . · .
Point Zeb ·· "............... Choctaw Point . . · · . . · . . . · . . . RaJ?ged Point. . · · . · · · · · · · · · · Point Zeb... . . · . · · · · · · · · · · · Ragged Point. .·...··.....·. Point Zeb .................... ,

5533.5 11683.6
1380'2.4 3275.2

6051.6 IZ'/76.3
15093.9 3581.7

08 50 23-2 53 31 308 44 48 288 22 55
33.'l 56 59 311 53 55

m

8.58 2.04

14720.1
11706.0 9480.2

16097.5
12701.3 10367.3

7.:n
5.89 2.92
2.70 9.99

9.15

30 39 52.84 E. 0 04 03.41

155 58 14 131 55 02
177 34 01

4695.8
4352.1 16073.2

5135.2
'17577.2

30 40 32.19

1 IE.

0 06 07.73

357 33 58
56 54 2"2

Point Zeb ·················· Dog River Point ············

23650 04

4859.31

United States Coast Sun:ey.-GeographU:al Posi.tions.
Name of station.

Section VIII.-Mobile Bay.
To station-

Sketch H.
Distance. Distance. Yards. 9590.6 6914.8
7504.6 7613.7
M0'( .8.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

\ Longitude.
0 , ,,

I

Azimuth.
0
I II

'

I

Back azimuth. Distance.
0 ,
tr

Crab Creek ······.····....

30 43 03.18

IE. o 01

Metres.

28.28

301 59 47 33 08 03

Vessel Point...... · . · · · . . . · · Choctaw Point.............. Crab Creek .·· - · . · . · · ·. ··· . Vessel Point...... · . . . · · . · · . Crab C-reek . · · · · . · · · . · . · · . . Point Zeb . · · · · . · · · · · . · · · · . .

122 02 10 213 06 56
250 51 51 172 09 41
348 37 33 131 41 07

6769.9 6323.1

Mik$. 5.45 3.93
4.~

:Blakely··········--·--·-··
Tensa.w Rh-er .·· · ·· · · · · · ·. Mobile, Episcopal Spire..... Mobile, Barton Academy....
Opposite Mobile Island.....

30 44 16.17

0 05 32.03

70 53 55 352 09 23
168 37 43 311 39 51

C862.5
6962.2
~750.4

4.33

30 41 35.62 E. 0 01 48.66

N78.4 11169.5 11615.8 17096.3 1£235.2
4094.6
~432.8

10365.3 12870.8
1270-~.7

1.71 5.89
7.31 7.22 10.62

30 41 26.25 W.O 01 04.24 30 41 23.75 0 01 28.13

243 34 36 278 12 35 312 02 48 277 25 31
281 44 13 359 48 53

Blakely ·.····.·····..·· ··.-. Vessel Point .·.··.·····.··.· Ragged Point....... · · . . · · . · Vessel Point...... . · · · · . · · · . Tensaw Rh-er...... · . · . . · · · . Choctaw Point..............
Vessel Point................ Crab Creek . · . · · · · · · · · . · . . .

63 37 58 98 16 15 132 06 51 97 29 24 101 45 29 179 48 53 163 00 22 279 23 41

186.96.0 13390.1 4417.7 3754.0

7.60
2.54 2.13

30 42 02.69 W.O 00 41.99 30 42 29.09 E. 0 05 26.37 30 42 51.01 30 43 12.78 0 04 54.91 0 02 42.33

Minetta

Bay...............

343 00 01 99 25 43 61 14 00 93 54 52 44 09 09 246 36 06
200 48 57 15 \¥.) 1)7
4.\) '2.'5 l'><>
~

~764.~

2.34
3.99 11173.0 60-25.5 8520.1 5378.4
2178.6 1'017 .s 1220'2.4
~1~-~

6420.5
1C2l7 .0

Middle Apalacha .····.. ···· Middle Tensa.w ··.··.··· : · .
Spanisli. Ri."\"er ···· - ········

Choctaw Point...... ·· . . · · . . Crab Creek · · . . . . .. · . · . . . · . Choctaw Point...... · · · . · · . . Blakely · . · · · . . · · · · . · · · . · · · ·
Crab Creek · · · · · . .. · . . . · · · . CD.oota.w l'oint...... . · · . · · · ·
C\\ocl.a'W ~omt. · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
~\1).Ke\'i ···· ------ ······ ~···

241 ll OS 273 53 06
~

1:509.9 7791.1 4918.2

6.35 3.42 4.84

07 25 6Q 37 33

3.00

ll6 49 31 19\l OS 35
<,all %\ '.\13 \()';} '.l,3 ~

l~.2 ~ t417 .3
111"8.3
~~-Q

1.21

3.99
6.9:!
\.1~

'l3

\)~

Name of station.

Latitude.
0 , ,,

I

Longitude.
0 , "

I

Azimuth;
0 /

-'i--~~T~o_s_ta_ti_on---~_

__.I Back azimuth. I Distance.
i .
0
I 11

I

Distance. Yard1t.

I

Distanoo.
])file$.

St. Louis Point ············ Opposite Chickasaw Bayou .· Mobile River ·············· BONSECOVRS BAY. Little Point Clear, No. 1. ·.· Cypress Point · ·· ··········

30 44 04.70 30 44 26.93

w.o 01 21.75

i
!

n

202 57 38 292 42 56

Mobile .River · · · .. · · · · · · · · · · . 22 58 12 Crab Creel. .····. " ······· ,I 112 44 23

I
I i

Mstres.
4556.3 4903.6 4654.1 7888.6 6679.2 11407.0

4982.6
6362.4

2.83 3.06

0 00 5'( .37, 303 38 18 356 56 36

1 Crab Creek ..···· -·········' 123 39 32 \ Choctaw Poi.tit ··.··· , ······ , 176 56 44
' Crab Creek ...········.···· : 155 44 56 Choctaw Point ············· , / 183 33 51

5089.6 &i'J3.4

2.89 4.90 4.15 7.09

ao 46 20.94 w.o oo 14.90 I
30 15 50.84 E. 30 20 03.45 30 22 59.00 30 15 13.75

335 44 03 a 34 05

7304.9
12474.4

o 05 18.10

I

I i 138 55 34
128 34 00
132 40 28 57 08 09
317 42 26

liullet Point .·············· ,! 8 56 93 Point Juliet. ··········.··.· i 308 28 48 Mullet Poiiit .··············· i 312 37 30 Little Point Clear, No. 1 .··· · 1 237 04 2-2 Cypress Point . · · · · . · ·····.· [ 137 43 59 Shell Bank Bayou ........... : 167 34 34

I
!

16665.6 21127.2
12819.6 14321.l 7305.4

182'J4.9

10.35 13.13 7.96 8.90 4.54 9.11
6.42 5.65

.

0 12 48.171 0 09 44.12

: : : : : : : 1'

15661.1

Fish River ··.·············
Shell Bank Bayou ······ --- . Oyster Cove .·············· Bolll!CCOurs Bay ············ New Bonsecours Harbor ····

347 33·34
0 11 42.35
0 08 51.85 0 15 41.20

.

I

14669.B
103.'33. 7 9091.7
4790.8 6285.1

7989.0 16042.6

96 2-2 18 191 08 58
252 0-2 17

' Little Point Clear, No. I. .... i 276 19 05 Cypre88 Point .·······.····· i 11 09 31 Shell Bank Bayou .. - ········ i 72 03 43 Little Point Clear, No. 1 ····· 294 36 23

30 14 25.80
30 17 50.79

-- ;'

114 38 11 52 52 19

i

6:J39.l 6873.2

2.98

3.91
4.98 3.83

131 28 46
30 17 51.97

Shell Bank Bayou ·.···.···.· , 232 50 19 Cypress Point · · · · · · · · . ····· 1 311 27 19 Cypress Point .········· --·· 311 2-2 16 Shell Bank Bayou ··········· 1 232 43 10

8007.8 6163.3

8757.1
6745.5 6729.0 8763.6

IE. 0 15 41.00

131 23 44 62 45 11

6153.2

8013.7

3.82 4.98

United Stam Coast Survey.-Geographicol Positiom. Section VIIL-Jfissi.ssippi
___

~nd.

Sketch H.

N_~_e_~_~_~_oo_.____~_~_~_a_e_.__~_"_·_~_d_e_.~·--AE_~_d_·~---T_o_·_~_·_____ ~~.~~~~
0
I
I~

0

,

,,

0.

I

'1

0

I

I'

West Gulf Shore ···········

209

~·~.~-'loi~9imrm:.7.-~-~-~--~-~-"'1-3o.J.4...J~w.if-,g.,.i~B2-:'""''j::~137:;:;4~0:=::0s~:=gs~h;e~niB~an~k~Ba~y:~~n~~:~::~:~·-:·:·:··:t::3~17~39~2~a==t=~~~~~24~-:4:+:.~3:6:;_5~::~~-06~
MISSISSIPPI SOUND. Grant's Pass Light-house ···. 355 48 36
6()

30 56

New Bonsee.ours Harbor.....

29 3'2 14

Metres. 8400.5

Yar4 9186.5
35

Miles. 5.2"2
2

21 32

East Base.................. West Base . . . . · . . . · · · . . . · . .

175 48 43 240 JS 19

4780.6 11803.2

5227.9
12907.6 5370.7 13607.5 4275.9 10685-7 7487.9 !4721.0

2.97
7.33

rn

__.. Grant's Pau ············..
Little Dauphin Ishmd ····..

30 17 41.56

0 06 39.53

3 36 32

61 19 35

East Base... . · . . · · . . . . . . . . . West Ba.Se.................
East Base.................. Cat Island.... . . · · · · · · . . · · . . East Base.................. West Base.................
West Base................. Cat Is}llnd.... · · · · . · · . · · · · · . Cat Island........ . . . . . · . . . . Marsh Island . . . . · .. · · · . · . . . Cat Island...... · · · · . · · · . · . . Bayon Coq d'Inde · · · . · · . · · · ·
"F.ast "Bil.Se..................
C\\\ 1.\\\\1.u<.\.······
H

183 36 22 241 16 09
208 43 13 293 51 39 182 21 39 233 56 57
174 36 24 98 41 51 160 04 07 201 32 35 2()f) 21 08 3l6 46 12
152 '3\. 09
~
·

12443.2
3910.0

4911.2

3.05 7.73

30 16

53.74

0 05 40.80
0 06 40.49 0 l4 00.18

28 43 49 113 54 09

2.43
6.07
4.25

9771-4

John's House..............
Marsh Island . · · · · · · · · · · · · .
Bayou Coq d'Inde...... ···.

30 18 44 .55 30 19 24. 09 30 2Z. 2"2.48 30 20 23,96

2 21 44 54 00 2".l 354 36 08
27840~

6847.2
13!61.4 9173.3 4458.6
6559.6
~

8.36
5.70 2.71 4.08

10031. 7
4875.8
7173.4

o 12

as.94

340 03. 24 213316 25 21 31 136 46 53

5905-6
278f>_7
;)\)\)7 .5

6158.4
3046.4
5476.l
9788.0
~-~

3.67
1.73 3.11

Murder l'o\nt.......... . . . .

0 10 30.51

--~ · . · ·

·

·

io\

m

Name of station..

Latitude. 0 ,,,

l_Lonsi~~·tude~-·-i·-A-zi_m~uth_.-i~~--T~o_st_a~tio_n _______( B_ae_k_at1m_'_u_t_h_.!lJM~re.1 lJ-,"._i I>-"'·
'I!

0'"

__ 1

Petit Bois East ............ 1 30 14 01.23

!w.o 15 48.20 1
0 ~ 50.34

o ' " 128 18 53 72 52 03

Grande Batture.... ......... Petit Bois.................. Grande Batture... ........ ·. Horn Island East .·· · · · . ··. . Grande Batture....... · · · · · · Point aux Pines............. Grande Batture....... ·····. Point aux Pines............. Grande Batture............. Grande Batture East........ Point aux Pines............. Grande Batture East · · · . · · · .
Hom Island East .··.··.··.. Petit Bois ................. .

o ' " 308 14 50 252 48 44

!Jfetrea. I 1642il.6 I I 11056.6 j

I 1

Yarth. 17965 12091 1 8562 4

I 81
1

Milu· 10.21 6.87

l>etit Bois West ......... ..

30 l~ 16.44 30 23 18.32 i 30 20 59.49
30 22 00.83

193 23 59 104 45 42

13 24 59 284 43 19 217 15 23 113 18 09
2'l7 07 57 53 29 48

i

I
I
!
I

13779.7 78-:l!J.B 87t'i.5.5 5336.5
:wi'0.5 7614.9

15~. l /

8.56 4.86 5.45 3.32 2.47 4.73 2.90 1.75 2.88 4.70 7.20 9.41 3.02

Ba,,vou Lafourche .......... .
Grande Batture East .......

lo
! j

!

0 20 31.991
22 01.81

37 17 03 293 16 36
47 08 52
253 27 59

I

9f>86 61 5835 8 i
-

\

i

8327.41
5096 .0 3083.2

4342.0

I
1 1

'

West Grand Bay ......... ..

0 23

Ea.st Grand Bq .......... .
Point aux Chenes ...... ··-· 1
Ship Yard ............... ..

ao

"' .. "-"'II
19

9 59 21 20.521 313 35 06 0 19 07.871· 3'25 05 01 37 53 11
0 2i 36.88

189 59 06 133 35 46

4600.0 2819.4

145 05 52 217 51 52 21l4 00 39 146 25 44 110 18 28
168
.fl

4640.5 7563.5
115.%.0 15148.9 4855 4 13938.5 5712.1 8083.5

6074. 7 1 8271 2 \
12680_ 0 16566.4
II

o5.n

24 02 08
326 23 06

30 20

45.191I
I i

I

0 32 14.93 0 34 01.08
0 33 44.64
I

290 17 01

Round Island ............. .

30 18 04.15

i
Round Island Light ........
1 Horn Island, (I) ........... [
30 17 30.51

I 209 45 12 I i
246 05 0-2

348 46 49

Bayou Cll80tte ...···..·····. Hom Island East .··········

40

5309 7 I 15242. 1

I
i
i

8.68
3.55
5.-0-2

Ship Yard .····.·········.·. Bayou Casotte ....····..·...

29 46 05
66 07 2-2

6246.6 8839. 9 :

i

256 42 53

3-26 20 44

I Grande Batture .···...··....
i Hom Island
I

East .··.·..·.. _,

ao

13 46.73

w.o

3" 45..s2 [

m

203 01 16 39 01

I

East Pascagoula ........... · Horn Islalld. East ···········.

l
I

76 47 53 146 2'2 20
23 03 00 . 96 4-l OB

16297 .6
9'..f..!'2.4

17S-i2 6
10085 3

!

!

10.13 5.73

J3,:o,8.1 6784.2

15176 71 7419.0

8.62 4.22

United States f!oast Sitivey.-Gcogr0:pki.cq,l PositiO'lls.
tll

Section V11L-Mi,¥Bis.,·~npi Sownd.
To station-

Sketcli H~
D.istance. Distance.
1'11rds. J8J!l4.4 12:lli8.9
Miles 10.:14 7.03

Name of station.

Latitude.
0
I

J".1111ijltmlo.
0
I

Azimi1th.
0

Back 11zi11111lh. Distance.
.o

Horn Island, (2) ·········· ,

30 14 "M.li2 w.o 37 32.m; :10 lli 18.86 30 21 44.19 30 20 38.21 30 14 47.5:1 :10 21 :!Cl.78 :10 14 34.80 0 41 45.94 0 36 47.69 0 41 11.48 0 50 10.1_4 0 47 41.13 0 51 56.21

"

"

·.·

II

,

/

.. Hom Island West ..........
I

231 31 II 27819 32 247 03 41 281 21· 07 326 41 29 2~ 26· 39 274 2:t !l7 308 14 :J3 265 52 12 2:J3·05 02 320 46 44 17 :12 :m 207 ::i9 :l7 21i2 07 12 214 21 2!l 177 4~ J:J

Bayri11. Casotte .............. Hom· Island East ······.···. flnyou Casot.te .............. Hom IKlnnd Eaijt ...........
nonml J~lnnd ............... l.111y11u Cusotte ..............

51 35 17 98 23 02 67 09 55 101 26 46 ' 1411 42 !l3 100 30 22 !14 2!l M 128 10·54 8r. r.r. 20 5:1 09 :M 140 49 4:1 107 :u 24 27 41 4G s2 08 or, :l·I 21i 1!I 357 41 57

·"

Jlf'r./l'flB. Hi!i:l7 .Ii

l1:JIO.li 21.!i06.2 18338.8
:

2:l!i"l8.5 20054.8
881i4.6

'· 13. 36 11.39
5.04 7.67 11.71 13.49
39 8 .. ll.1 8

Bayou- Graveliine1 .········. Bellefuntninc ·············. Ship Island East ........... Deer Island ........... .'... Sl1lp Island Mnln ........... Chnndclcnr Light ..........

8106.1 12344.5" 18041.0 21719.0 l:lr.12.2 179!"12. 7 11i014.(i 132J4.!1 14671.9 2802.5 27:l8!l.4 21265.7

13490.6 20713.0
2~751.2·

Hnyou Cnsott.e ...··········. Horn Island East ...........

rn
~

i·forn I~hmd West ........... llt·llcfontaino .···..·····.··..
H;11·n 1Rland \Vest ........... Ship Isl111ul EuKt ............
D1ior Islnml ................

..

..

14776.::. 19676.6 16·119.6 14451.4 1Ci044.7

~-

8.2r

9.33

Ship blund l~11Ht .····...···. Hum T·l1111.l \V1!Ht ........... Ship Isluuil l\luhi ............

:u:io..i

9.1 2 1.78 17.02 13.21

30 03 21.57 w.o lit 24.2(j

2!1!152.2 2:1255.5

Dlloxt D11y,
l\fonk's Point ..............
30 21 02.00 w.o 43 37.70 30 23 06.89 w,o 46 52.28 tl8 ]1 51 99 20 57 25 10 44
300 28 28

..

Ship IRhmd llfuin ............ Deer Islaud ................
])eer Isl11111l ................
)fonl' ·.,

228 07 39 279 18 .. M

N:arsb Point ··············..

·.

17877.8 6587.4 :mor..G (111(11,0

19550.8 7203.2 :1:ir.u.11
71MUlll

11.1 1· 4.0'!)

.Pul11L ······ , , ·· , ····

211r. 111 JO 11!0 :10 00

·=".

·1.ll0

Name of station. :04'.er Islaiid East _- _··· _- - . J,>oint Cadde. -·- -·· .:_. -- - ~lrinnner

Latitude.
O
I II

Longitude.

Azimuth.
278 48 25

To stationM\111k's P1_1i11t ·· " ···········. Marsh Point .············· - · ·Marsh .Point .··· ~ ··········· Deer Island East .··········. D.eer.Isfand East.; ·········· Point .Cadde .····.· - - ······· Caddo .·········.····. Plummer ·················. Plmuiner ···· : · . ··.········· Point Joli. ················. Pciiut ·Joli ..· _·..· - ········. nhodes' Ship Yard ·········· Rhodes' ~hip Yttrd .····· ·-·· Point Blanc · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . Point Diane·.·.·.............. Puint Pierre ··········· ;.... Point Blanc .········· _·· _..
~oint

Baclt azimu~h.
0
I ''

Distance.

Distilnco. D1stauc~.
~IilcB. !3365~.l

------------- - - - - - - -, -,,- - ------1-----------1------·l----1-----1---0 0 . , ,,
30 21 31-08

w.o 47 13.09
0 50 09.46
0 49 06.18

190 39 5l
294 318

98 50 14 10 40 02
114 14 Oli

Met·res .. 5820·-"5 3001.8
5771.l 7102.4

Yards.

3282.9
631l.O 7766.5 7529.2 2077.8

3.62 1.86 3.59 4.41 .4·,28 l.18
.l.lllt 2.24

30 24 23.78
30 24 52.04
30 25 24.55

!'2 28 27 57

138 29 26

... _. __ ············.

333 59 05 62 45 04

154

00 02

242 44 32

6884.7 1899.7 3601.2 3500.5 1107.6

Point Joli ················. ·'.Rhodes' ·ship Yard .·······. Point' Blanc .··············. PointPierre ····· ~. ···· ····

0 51 15.81 0 5117.29
0 53 23.03 0 53 20.72 0 55 16.41

316 34 30 286 07 59
268 15 37 182 02 25 268 22 47 286 45 58

136 35 ·04 106 o9 04 88 16 44 2 03 26 88 23 51 106 47 01 ll9 52 49 183 59 25 81 04 32 66 17 41 92 09 01 162 36 58

2~6-~

Jll'/ 3937.9
. (.

6i>

30 24 48.60
30 25 21.45

3828.J.

"1211.'i
3'113.8 3831.9 4153.4 965.6 33-19.6 3687; f· 3.'l14.i' . 682.4

2.18 0:69
2-11

339n.9
3504.4

2.18
2.36 0.55 l.!.iO

30 25 50.04

299 51 45 .3 59 26
261 03 35
246 16 42

3798.4

882.5.

H11n·oy ···················.
Mnl'llh !Hln111I.......... .·. .

30 25 06.01
30 ~ 2.'>.35
30 25 33.58

3062;8
3371. 7

2:09
2.00

o 55

23.40

212 os o<i 342 36"·54 286 07 57 275 15 45
251 27 28 11;1.18 _24

H11rvey .: ······ ······ ·· · ···

3214.3 "624.2 3054.4 2759.l
2521-4

0.39
l.90
.1.71

H11wl11y ············· ·······
Fo~·lcr

.

0 '57 06.36

Hnr\·cy ·..· - ····· - · ·· · · · · · · ·106 08 53 M1u·sh Island · · · . · · · · · · · · · · . 95 16 37

···················

:so 24

59.32

w.o 56 52.99

l\fond1 Jsl11nd ···· - ········· _ Hiiwluy ····· ~ ··········· ;·:.

3411~

71 28 13 1'.1

. 1113.7

·121s.2

2756-~

1.57 <i.6<J

United Stales Coast Sm-vey.-Geographical Posilion.s.
Name of station.
Latitude. Azimuth.

Section VIII.-Mississippi Sound.
To
st~tion-

Sketch H.

Back azimuth.

Distance. Distant e. Distance.

Q

I

II

0

,

,,

0

'

,,

0

,

,,

Bernard's Bayou ···········

30 25 02.10 30 26 11.80

w.o w.o w.o

58 45.38 58 03.95

249 50 45 271 37 34
319 40 51 'J:l 15 31

Hawley · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · · · · · . Fowler........ .·...· .····. Fowler . . . · · . . · . . . · · . . · · · · . Bernard's Bayou · · · . · · · · · · · .

69 51 35 91 38 31 139 41 27 207 15 10

Metres. 2814.5 3000.6

Yard~.

3077.3 32818 3200 9
2639 9

.nr.zu.

1.'75

1.86
J.8'J 1.50

Chatakabafa Saw Mill .····.

29-26.7 2414.1

M"ississippi So11nd.
Biloxi Pier .··············. "Biloxi Light··.···········
/

30 22 58.89
30 23 46.2

52 29.88

288 08 16
356 40 54

Deer Island . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Ship Island )fa.in............

108 10 42 176 41 11

8113.1 15547.4

8872 3
1700-2-l~

&.04 9.66

0 52 44.9
1 00 33.95 1 02 41.36
0 56 29.99 0 56 36.19 317 59 39 269 19 34 268 38 54 19"2 10 15

Biloxi Pier ..··"... . · · · . · · . . . . ..····...···. Ship Island Main............ Biloxi Pier . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

1477.5
,2068-2.1 129-23.2 17251.6 16133.6

1615 8

0.92
12.85 8.03 10.72 10.02
4.12 12.26 5.03 6.29
1.72

?

0

0

Mississippi City ······.····· ,, Cat hland Main ··········.

30 22 54.21 30 14 2"2.02
30 23 36.85

I

138 04 00 89 23 39

22617.3 14132.4 18865.8 I 17643.2

I Ship Island Main...... · · . · · ·
Mississippi City. · · · · · · · · · · · · .Mississippi City. · · · · · . · . . · · . Cat Island Main....... . . . . . .

88 44 19 12 11 19
258 47 30 210 09 14
fU 35 35 285 24 40

Montgomery ····.···········
Ship h1and West .········. Ship Island, (2) .····· ······
PiteheT P<1'int, (.1) ··········

78 49 33 20 12 21 247 33 14 105 27 44 211 49 19 ~ 3-\. 14
'SM9 42 28 '31.?. 4.Q 4.7

7259.l 6638.3 \ 21579.4 19733.3

36 12 54.46

I Ship Island Main...... · · . · · · \ Cat Island Main.............

8098 .2 10129.l
2837 .0
6:r2G.8 \

8856 0 11076.9 31025
oo00.7

~~h~11 lsland Y~---··· ···.· .\

31 ~ 47 ~bi11 lslu.nO. We.t .·.········. \\263 .:.l 21
MississiI>I>i City. · · · · · · · · · · · · Ca.t 1.!!h:o.Q. ~ -·-· ··.·· ····

3.74
9.51 9 . .\2

00 4.S 59
"\~.MU

15297.9 \ 16729.3 1.<>1.1>9.·4. 1.&>'l7 .9

1

Name of station. .,- Pitcher Point, (2) .········.

Latitude.
0
I H

{ Longitude.
J

.Azimuth.
0 · ,//

(,_ _ _11_o_st_a_tI_·o_n_ _ _ _ ,f Back azimuth.

Distance.

f Distanc3. lDistance.
\I

0

'

/'

30 20 02.10 tw.1 09 31.35 30 21 fll.62 30 13 56.69 30 12 53.60 30 12 41.05 30 11 22.78 30 12 50.09 30 10 57.45 30 10 14.16 30 18

249 45 27 313 43 37
340 54 03

I ·Mississippi City.............
CatlslandMain............. Cat Island Main .········· --Pitcher Point, (2) ..·.··.... _

o

'

"

69 49 59 133 47 03 100 55 29 247 48 39

Metres. Yards 15290.6 16721.2 15167.4 j 16586.2
13866.81 15164.5 69-28.8 7577.3 9033.1 11439.0 9878.2 12509.4

Miles. 9.50 9.42
8.61 4.30 5.61 7.11

Point Blanc ···············
Cat Isiand Light ····· --··--

1 05 31.08
l 08 17 .98
1 03 18.27 1 03 26.70 1 04 38.96 1 05 34.28 1 11 43.59

67 50 40

265 01 18 170 08 09
269 49 52. 199 55 16

I

Cat Island Main ·.··········· 811 04 08 Pitcher Point, (2) .········· · 1 350 07 32 89 52 15 19 55 35 87 52 00 30 29 13 77 42 05 38 43 53

Cat Island, (3) ..····....·.. Cat Island, (2)-·--··· ·····. Cat Island, South Spit ······
Cat hland, Middle Spit ····· South Shell Bank ········.· Isle an Pied .·············. Pass Chrisdan Light ·······

Ship Island West ···.·······. Cat Island llain ·.····..····.
Ship Island West ········..·. 1 ,

10751.8 ! 11757. 9 ' 3166.8 2895.8 1 10984.9 434.6 13216.1 . 3089.1 4832.7 342'2.3 7789.3 10469.l 8294.5
6901.4

6.68
1.80 6.83 0.27 8.21 1.93 3.00 2.13

267 49 03 210 28 09 257 42 0-2 218 47 17 115 03 44 274 16 46
224 53 13 250 37 03

Cat Island (3) -··· ···-·- ---

·I

12012 8 475.3 1445.2.7 3378.2 5284.9
3742. 5

Ship Island West ···· -·-- -- - -1

Cat Island (2) .·.··....· ···· 1

.

Cl.)

Cat Island Light .····. -····- 295 03 26 Cat Island (2) .···....······ I 94 17 50

I

I

I ············ 1 44 54 57 70 40 13 I Middle Spit .· ~-- ···········.
\ Cat Island (2) .····.·.··.··. 1
1

C~t Islan~ ~ht

8518 2 11448.7 9070 6

4.84
6.50 5.15 4.29 7.78 12.07

1 07 46.59 1 13 37 .35

236 54 45 173 00 45 316 58 13 295 28 03
251 08 3-2 309 12 48

56 56 07 I Cat Island Light ·····.······ 1 353 00 29 Cat li!land Light .·.·.······· \ 137 03 28 Cat Island Main .······.···· · 115 35 34

54.351

- ·11.4
PB.1111 Christian ·············

-

·27

I

12520.7
19~30.l

I

I

7547 3

1369'2.3 21248.2

30 18 30.22 IW.1 14 43.83

I Pitcher Point, (2) ..········· i
J Cat Island Light-house ······

.t

71 11 10 129 16. 03

8819.1 13314.4

0044 2 145,?9 8

5.48
8.27

United States Coast Survcy.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station.

I

· Latitudt,.· '
0

....

Section VIIL-1lfi.ssissippi Sound.
To station-

Sketch H.

,.
Longitud/. ·'
0

Azimuth.
0
I

Back azimuth. , Distance. \ Distance. Distance.
0
I

Merritt's Coquille ··· - ······
St. Louis Bay.

I.

,

30 13 45.71 rw.1 15 28.01

"

, ,,

219 21 52 268 17 14

"

Pitcher Pointr (2) ...········ Cat Island Li_ght-house .······

39 21 52 88 20 49

"

Metres. 15019.1 11502.5

Yards. I 16424.4

12578.8

.Miles. 9.33 7.15

Henderson's Point .···..···· Shieldsboro' --------- -----· Delectable Point ........... Coward's Point ..... - ...... Cedar Hammock ··········· St. Louis Bay~--~- --- ··----

30 18 24.73 W.11612.83 30 17 57.34 30 19 37.47 30 20 19.36 30 22 05.96 1 18 50.70 1 16 09.72 1 18 34.09 1 16 35.99

30!J 00 12 352 03 32 325 01 ',!1 258 40 50 2 07 37 54 22 20 313 04 42
288 28 54

Cat Island Light ............ Merritt's Coquille ··· ---- .... Merritt's Coquille ··········· HendeI"SQn's Point .......... Henderson's Point .......... Shieldsboro' --·--···-------·

123 04 11 172 03 55 145 03 09 78 42 10 182 07 35 234 20 59

15138.5 8674.1 9453.6 4301.1 2241.3 5291.4 5166.4 4065.8 4625.7 4551.9 3787.o 5542.l

16555.0 9485.6 10338.6 4703.4 2450.7 5786.1 5649.9 4446.5 5058.8 49n.9 4141.3 6060.61

9.41 5.39 5.87 2.67 1.39 3.29 3.21 2.53 2.87 2.83 2.35 3.44

Henderson's Point ..········. 133 05 53 Delectable Point .····· _·· _. -1 108 30 07 Delectable Point .··········. 171 16 39 Coward's Point .· - - - - ·· - - - .. 1 2-23 50 31 Coward's Point ..... _······ -1 141 05 03 Cedar Hammock ............ 86 32 07

351 16 26 43 51 31 321 04 18 266 30 22

30 21 55.04 W.1 20 03.18

Unit~d States
N111110

Coast

Sittvcy.-Gco!P"j~kical Positions.

Section

IX.~Galr:eM.on Bay.

Sketch l.
Distance. Distanct?.

ur station.

L11titude .
0

To stationI II

Ilnck nzimuth. DiEtance.
0

· --------·------GALVESTON BAY.
Dollar Poi11t ·.············.
0 ' ,. 0
I H

I

H

Metres.

J't11'dB.

Niles.

29 26 02.61 W.6 52 ~!r·@l!J) 15.00 · "r";ili;f ·.· ············ ' ······· ' ········· ' ····························· -.·'. ' ··...···· ·.· ,.·. 29 2.2 35·.10 29 25 50. 06 29 31 34.15 29 31 58 .14 29 24 48.28 29 23 26.98 29 21 59.99 29 JS 14.47 29 18 17.35 20 18 11.f!3 6 45 15.02 6 40 09.14 119 27 49 91 10 51 53 58 13 49 IO 40. 1 41 38 341 59 43 79 42 56 248 24 19 39 58 53
Dollar Point................ Dollar Point.... · · · · · · · · · · · · Bolivar Point..... · · · · ... · · · .

Bolivar Point ··············
Pan's Grovo... · · · · · · . · · · · . Smith's Puint .····.····.·.. Long Grove. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Freclenb.crg..... ·· ·.· · · · · · .

299 24 23
2'i'.l 04 54 233 55 43

n!J99.5
lf 565.8 IC·l99.0
1

14215.~

!LOB

21396.6 lJJ.53.3

12.16
6.34

6 44 56.82
6-42 25.79 6 43 07.53 6 43 52.33 6 44 25.31 6 46 08.82

Dollar Point .··············· Bolivar Point .········.····. Parr's Grove ·.···········.. Smi~h's Point .·····.····.···. Parr's Grove ....·.·.··..... Bolivar ~oin~ .............. · Smith's Point ·····.········· l'arr"s Grove ·······.······.
Bolivar P.oint ·.···..·······.· Parr's Grove ···············

229 07 05 181 41 29
162 00 50 259 41 42

ff004.6 lf602.6 11914".8 033.0
·f.}70.8 {.35(J.l

17064.7
ItH56.l

9.70. 10.32
7.40

130'29.7.
45i6.8 L 5654.6 5850.7

2.5i 3.21 3.32

'
Widow Yates.............. Dunkor · · · · · · · · · · ·· · . · · · · . 011\vcHton Co11rt House...... GulvcHton Cnr.licnlrnl ········

I GB 25 47 I 219 57 50
353 23 14
53 48 16
308 53 09 44 17 31
4 30 43 34 4.1 22

173 23 46
233

46

lf.098.6
~456.5

26

16511.4 8154.2
J883.4 10818.5
·
~.!

9.38

4.63
1.07 ,6.15
··

128 53 3.'l 224 15 25

184 . 30 07 214 38 26 145 50 05 191 21 &4

Smith's Point .···········.·. Parr's Grove ·····.····.··..
Dnlh~r

2'.695.8 1rn53.2
1~'3UL7

27006.6

1864.B.9
18!)35.!I

·,. 15.·34 lt:i.59

6 46 14.17

Pnint ···············.

Galveston Epiacn1111\ Church .·

lW.6 46 21.29

~

15 39 215 24 10

·J'

Unlh·nr Puint ..····.··.····· Smith'H Puiut ···.··· ,. ·······
}"arr'a Grovo ····· ··········.

325 47 08 Ii 22 23 5 16 21 :85, 27 12

fll93:7
2<.805.4
1~'312.9

11.76
5'.03 15.41

SS.51.0
27120.4

18932.11

10.76

United States Coast Survey.-Geographical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude.
0 ' '

·..

Sectiun IX.-Galveston Bay.

Sketch I.

.. I_ _ _._T_o_s_ta_n_·o_llI . i · Azimuth. _ _ _ _ ! Back azimuth./ Distance. Distance. Distance. I --·---1-----'I-- - - . 1----1----1---Longitude.
0 ' ''

0

I

,,

o

'

"

FortPoint ·....··..··.···.. t 29 20 04.49 W.6 44 38.64, J31 53 32 \ , 168 03 20
G11lvestonBench ..··..····..

DollarPoint .·..···.·······. Bolivar Point...............

31149 48 348 03 02 2584459 354 39 37 34113 53 36 46 56
359 41 11 61 03 19 62 53 26 51 16 06

Mct·res. 16521.3 4739.4

Yards. · 18()67.2 5182.9

Miles. 10.26

2.94
1.45 4.67

291832.19
29 IS 01.38

64449.11

784541 174 39 50 16115 25 216 45 01 179 41 12 240 59 G5

I Bolivar Point .····.·..······ ,
Dollar Point................ Bolivar Point...............
Dollar Point ............... . Bolivar Point .............. .

Cathedral ····.·············

2340.0 ·7;;11.0 15646.3 10519.6 12622.5 12869.3 5215.0 6338.2 6039.2 11588.7 4291.4 11442.0

2559.0 8213.8 17109.3 · 11503.9 13803.6 14073.6 5703.0 6931.3 6604.3 12673.1

1''est Bay Point ...·....··..
Virginia Point .....·..···... Pelican Island ....·······..

6 49 08.45 6 52 12.44
64807.14
6 52 24.60

9.72
6.54
7.Si 8.00 3.24 3.94 3.75 7.20 2.67 7.11 8.79 4.44 11.66 4.48

29 19 12.6'2 29 21 17.88 29 22 46.63 29 23 43.24 29 28 06.29 29 29 49.07

242 52 01 :131 15 11
18'2 27 21 271 43 31 178 59 33 280 32 07
~

Bolivar Point .............. . Cathedral .··.·.··.··.····.·.

Wilcox ········.···.····..
Shoal Point ····..·.·.·..··. Hanna's Reef. ·..·········. Ed..-ard'sPoint ··.·..·..... Heron Grove .·····
1ffi1.le..,'s

I I

Dollar Point ···.······.···.. Bolivar Point .............. · 1 Dollar Point ............... .

2 27 26 91 47 01 358 5.1} 33 100 35 32

.

?

f'-2 0 0
~

6 52 12.20
6 48 .;i!L29

I Bolivar Point ...............

469'"2.9 12512.6 15462.8 7821.9
20506.6 7885.4
9945.0
6000.8
l'>8'.\8 .4 '3481.4

13 03 57 50 54

Parr's Grove ............... . 1 107 17 10 Dollar Point ............... . 237 49 -03 , Bofo·ar Point.... . · . · .. . · . . . 135 28 13 \ Dollar Point. ............... , 165 13 2-2
!, E·l.""n'd.'s ¥oint .···.......· · \ 2-2 19 31 \ Do}lti.J: romt.... ·· · ··· .. · ·· · 74 4.1 22
\\Y,i\wal:G.'S ~<)mt . · · · · · · . · · · · · "Do\""1: ~om.\..... ··· · ·· · · · · · ·
~

14139.7 7152.6
\ 18752.0 7210.7

6 53 23.29

~--·

·... \ 29 25 15.81
'.l.9 '.!.& l>1.·;n.

~~

315 2:1 13 345 12 49 202 18 28
1._'i'>\)
~

~oi.n.t ············· \

\w

.&

l>~ '55.\\1

254 45 4.o

n

'.'.\'>

1..'<> '.l:-2

~

1..'.\ l>'2 1..1> 1..1..

'\~·.1
·

5. 65
3.41
'.\. 32. 1...~

l>'.\'.\8.8
'.\1..~.(')

Ohzrcd .&'a.l'c:r OoasT Suroey.-Oe0 0 o?-a_pJu-at' ..P~N lt1ll6 of station.

&diOn .LX:-Oakest'lm .Bay.
To station-

SkercA I.
I

i

Latitude.
0,11

Cedar Point. ·· - - · - - - - .·.·· I 29 40 09.07 1W.6 51 24.43

I
I
I

!

l

i

f

Longitude.
Q'H

.Azi.mnih.
0

{Back azimuth. ( Distan;,.
0

Distance. Distance.
Yards. 26751.3 21161.0
4390.3

, ,,

326 38 02

9 31 14 3.:!3 16 42 602803 178 37 16 262 30 50 163 55 30 263 56 43
200 07 53 284 06 20

IS . h' P · I Edward's Point .·········· - .
llllt 8

j

, ,,

Muns.

Nilu11.79 12.02

oint ······· ____ ··· _

146 41 13 189 30 15
163 17 03 240 24 15

18975.7 19'J.')4.0 4014.6 14349.4 17170.4 10108.8 17125.3 5719.7 19723.7 5671.5 17185.8 12690.7 15221.4 13048.6 12553.2 13736.9 7848.4 5277.l 17596.7 9048.7 10610.4

Vmgtnne Mand ··· - ······· -

i

29 33 39.04

6 45 39.72 6 51 09.06

I Smith's Point ...·.········..
/ Edward's Point .···········.

15692.1 18777.0 11054.7 18727.7 6254.9 21569.3 6202.2 18793.9 13878.2 16645.7 14269.6 13727.8
150'~.2

2.49 8.91 10.67 6.28 10.64 3.55 12.25 3.54 10.68 7.89 9.46

Middle Pass ..···.····.··· - , 29 30 51.52

I
!
I

! Cedar Point.._._ .·· __ ····..
j Smith's Point .·····. --- ···..

Opossum :Pass - ·· - - ···· - - ·. \ ,. 31 , ...,
.

Rock Spring ..·

-------·-···1
i

I i

29 30 34.01

I l
I !

358 37 09 8-23354 343 54 03 835827
26 10 32 104 08 01

6 48 28.07 6 56 47.52 6 59 39.83 6 58 48.88 6 57 44 48 6 59 34.76 6 53 26.12

I I

Cedar Point.. - - ·······.·... Smith's Point ..·····.··..··..

rn
t:1 0
~
~

. Cedar Point ······ -----· .··· I Edward's Point-----·· ······

' Yorris .· -- ·. -- - -- · -- · - --- · ! 29 34 07.161
Red Blu1f

Red Bluff .· - --- -

I I West .·.·····.··. 29 35 03.041 I ---------·I 29 36 12.39 i

2:...'9 33 01 308 44 16
231 43 39 317 46 32 234 29 2-i 329 11 45 20'2 12 42 193 31 42 359 45 04 50 11 28

I Cedar Point ..··..··.··..·.. I Edward's Point ······. -- ···.
I

49 37 01 128 47 17
I

·-

51 47 19 j Cedar Point ....·····.····.. I Edward's Point ...·········. 1 137 49 12

e.11
7.80

1'1ander"s Grove .· - - . - - - - - · · ! 29 32 16.39
Houston·-··----------·---; 29 39 20.63

I
I

I

i I

I
I
I

I
I

I

I

I Edward's Point------- ··.··. I ; Red Bluff ....····.···.····.

l Ce-Oar Point . - ·· - - - - - - - - - - - .1

54 32 32 149 13 54

8.54
4.88 3.28 10.93

i RedBJutfW&Jt .··.··.·····.

22 13 36 13 32 00 179 45 06 2300920

8583.0 5770.9 19243.2 1:1895.4 11603.2 9i>53.8

Yorgan Poin1 ··· - - ····· ----1 29 40 55.99 lW.6 57 55.41

I
1

, Edward'il Point ·········· - ·· /Red Bluff .·············

----1

3.62
6.59 5.43
~

277 47 52 358 04 17

j Cedar Point ················

97 51 06 Red muff ·················· 1 178 04 23

ii::...

8736.3

.....

United Stales Coast Suruey.-Geograpkical Pontions.
Name of station.
'--La-t--itu_d_e.__ ,__ Lo_ngitude.

Section IX~-Gali-eston Bay.

Shetek I.

1 __ A_zitn_nth_._ _ _ _ _ T_o_s_t11_ti_o_n_ _ _ _ __ B_a_ck_az_im._u_th_. Distance.\ Distance. Distance.

Mezquit Knoll ······

······1

I

0

,

"

0

,

"

I

1

0

,

,,

29 39 37.0-2 W.6 54 31.30

1~ ~ ~
36 58 54 105 0-:<! 12 31 43 10 96 36 00 300 19 00 9"2 47 23
207 30 19

i
1
J

0

I

If

M~tres.

~~~g~~u~~hit.."."."."."."::::::::
Red Bluff ..················ Morgan Point · · · · · ········.
Red Bluff ··.·..·.·········. Morgan Point · · · . · ·······..

219 30 06 293 52 49

8:66.4
61102.4

Yards. 8930.5 6564.1
9853.3 6465.3
10435.5 5841.9 5112.4

Milu. 5.07 3.73
5.60 3.67

&It Works ··············· - I 29 40 06.21
Pottery ········.········· ., 29 40 36. 08 Clopper ·················.
Hackberry Point .·········. Dr. Harris ···············. Dr. Beasley ·······_........

6 54 23 02 6 5-1 38. 0-2
6 57 01.38
6 59 06.90

216 57 14

I

285 00 27
211 41 28 276 34 2-2 120 20 14 272 46 57 27 31 21 60 57 07 38 20 23

9010.2 5!112.1 9:i42.6 5:142.0

J
j

5.93
3.32
2.91

29 40 53.69 29 37 23.20 29 37 58.82

l

I Mezqnit Knoll ·.············
! Morgan Point ··········.···.

4fii'4.9 l·i54.4

1590.5 7990.6
9'Tt3.8

0.90
4.54

240 54 50

,. Clopper ·················· Mezquit ··················.

7:106.9
&.80.3

5.27
4.26 5.48 2.56 4.57

6 59 39.66

218 19 05 249 56 57 233 40 29 269 21 30

i Mezqnit ··········..······ l
, Clopper ··················. Mezquit .·················.

: Clopper ······.···········.

69 59 30 53 41 30 89 23 45

6B6'2.9 8!!26.6
4:20.7 7::56.7

7505.1 9652.5 4506.3 8045.l

29 39 34.42 W.6 59 04.87

San Jacinw Riur.

Allen.....................

29 41 11.18 W.6 54 58.40

Dalton Point ··············\ 29

4~ 33.73

345 53 16 84 23 57
293 05 53
~

I I Mezquit . ··· ··· · · · ·· · ·· · ·· .

' Morgan Point...............
\ Allen...................... \ l.lorgan Point...............

165 53 29 2&i 2-2 29
113 07 .43
158 18 \% -''""' \\\'> 'Zl 1.'3'& l'& M

\I
\

2!189.1 4".'81.5
6<·,74_4
~~-5

3258.8
5228.9
7080.2 3541.5
1.388.7
. '31.s<./..\)

1.86

2.91
4.02

6 58 39.W

18 33

2.01
0.79 l.81.

o,m...-... ...........\ ,.. " ·.,._,.

"".11 "'

u.ro

~ \\\'>

ll "31.'& l'& lG

\nalt<m. I'omt · · · · · · · · . · · · · · .
"M..<It\'!,""- ~o\n.t ····· -···

·····.

W.69 .9 'i!.\.~'il .7

.··,

Bke&:h L
___ No_am_e_a_f_stati_·_an. ___ ,__ Lati.tu_·_d_e_._{_Lo_n_gi_m_d_e_.-i--A-zi-·m-·«th-·_r

To station-

Back !LZimuth. {Distance.

Distance. Dist!lllcf.

~Brinson Point ...· ··········'1. ; ~ l;.66
Dolt-0:;;;.'s Bouse ···········.
1

W.;

o:i 4;.87

26~ 4~ l;
29S Z'l 52 ·
2 42 47 69 27 31 54 53 56 2813315

1-D-al-to_n_P_o-in_t_______ -.--..-..· -.-___

-·,·-8-~-49-,-2-~->--Mi-34-ct--;:;-_·-9-:--y.-;-T~-s-:o~-~-Mi-2'il.-_e:-ti
118 29.18
182 42 46 249 26 27 234 53 32 101 33 54 145 55 19 1884630

M_organPoint......... .···..

5Z'l3.8
809.6 3713.0 1613.6 216-2.2 7297.6 3571.0

5767.3
885.4 4060.4

3.28
0.50 2.31 LOO 1.34 4.53 2.21 1.59. 2.42

l

29 42 59.99

6 58 38.51 6 59 56.75 7 00 27.59

I
1

Dalton Point............... BrinsouPoint ·· ..···· .····. Brinson Point .·..···...·...

Ship Yard ..·.·····...···.. \ 29 42 47.80

·

\

!

Scott .··.··..

·············-1

29 44 12.29

I

325 54 04 84640

!Dalt.on Point ·········.····· , I BrinsonPoint Mor~anPoint............... ·..·····.····.
Seott---···-·-·············\ Seott ····-···-· ............
Brown's Island ..·..··..···..
1

1764.6 ·2364.5

7~.4
3005.l

Bro'ltll'sisland ············ 1 29 44 05.87
Routh .··..·...·.·..·.·... 1 29 42 18.58'

I
1

7 02 02.83
7 0112.96

26.5 34 52 328 50 13
157 5518 199 11 56

8.5 35 40 Brinson Point-------········ 148 50 50
337 54 53 19 12 19

2.566.5 3893.3 3.564.71 3706.9

2800.7 4257.6
3898.3 4053.8

2.22 2.30

Drasdo.

·············-····i

29 44 48.74

7 01 59.99

~ ~~ ~
290 15 00 3253305 237 09 03 304 26 31

~:;.~-isj~j=::::::::::::: ~~ ~ ~~
Drasdo ·.············.·.··. Brown'slsland ..···.·······.

~:t~
1400.6 2188.5 854.3 2371.4

~!!~:
1531.7 2393.3 934.2 2593.3

1.69
0.82

Fine ··········.····.·····. ' 29J5 04.49 i

j

7 0248.90

1101524 1453327 57 09 16 124 Z'l 07 5.5 17 1 202 268 40 08

0.87
l.36

San Jacinto ·.·.··.·.·····.
Bay of Analutae.

29 44 49.44 lw. 7 03 15.61

Pine...................... Brown's Island..............

0.53 1.47

Double Bayou .······ ······j

2!}

40 21.68 w.6 40 41.35

1

2'2 57 23
884626

........ Po;ot··············· CP.dar Point ················

17635.9 17294.5'

19286.1 18912.7

10.96 10.75

United States Ooast Survey.-Geogr.aphical Positions.
Name of station. Latitude. \ Longitude.
Q,n

Section IX.-Galvestan Bay.
To station-

Sketch L
Distance. Distance.

Azimuth.
0 '· ,,

IBack azimuth. \ Distance.
29'2 12 12 7 47 39
0 , ,,

0'"
Lone (5) Oaks ············· Lawrence Cove............
Umbrella Point ·····.·····. Fisher .······.······ -- · - ·.
Barrow Beach ······.·····.

29 36 32.14 29 46 16.60 29 40 46.17 29 43

w. 6 41

17 .31

·

112 17 12 187 47 21
324 13 02 39 36 30

Cedar Point .···.··········· Double Bayon ·······.···.·· Double Bayou.............. Cedar Point................ Lawrence Cove ·.···..······ Double Bayou .·.····.······

I
I

~~~-~~~~~-~~~

Metres.
17641.6 7132.9 13466.4 14718.0 13207.8 16318.6

Yim.ls. llnlll.2 7800.3
14726.5
16095.~

Miles. 10.96 4.43
8.37

6 45 34.22

144 15 27 219 43 36

9.14
3,21 10.14 5.50 9.83

6 50 47.68

19.131

!
6 49 53.68

219 36 10 272 36 25
231 53 29 290 09 54 239 28 41 304 18 25

39 38 46
9"2 41 25

14443.7 17845.5

Lawrence Cove ···········.. 51 55 38 Double Bayou ..·······..·.· 1 , 110 l4 28 Lawrence Cove............. 59 30 0-2 Do~ble Bayou ..··..·..··.· -1 124 22 11 Double Bayou .····.··...·.· , 156 45 29

i

I 15819.6 8857.0
5061.6

9685.8 17299.9
5535.0 16.20-2.5

·¢

29 44 53.13 29 46 53.66 29 46 18.86 29 43 57.31 29 41 20.36 29 46 46.51

6 48 16.55
6 43 54.35
6 41 45.79

3.is.
9.20

·

14816.1
13125.6

Alligator Bank ···.··.·····.
South Pass Trinity River ··.. Round Point · · · . · ·...···..

336 43 53 66 57 35
3.51 02 46

89 22 01

Lawrence Cove ..····.······ i 269 20 08 Double Bayou ..······.······ j 182 28 58 Lawrence Cove .·····...··.· 297 42 58 Double Bayou .·.·.··.····· ·I 100 09 46 Lawrence Cove .......... ···\ 317 49 04 Double Bayou .............. \ 189 58 47 Lawrence Cove .............. 41 18

~:~::~::~:::~~:: ::::j :: : :
i
i

2914.8
11132.2 6135.8
6645.0 9"214.4

14353.8
3187.5 12173.9 6"(09.9

8.15
1.81
6.~

=
·

3.81 4.13 5.72

6 40 30.64
6 40 26.87
6 39 23.73

2 29 04
117 45 29

7276.8
10076.6

.Aim Point .·········.·· .,_···
.Anab.uae ·····- ···-·· ······

12 09 52

137 57 37

1848.2 I 12304.1
\ 12030 .1 9993.4
1<>291.4 \~-1

2021.1
l:w>S.4
13155.8 109'28.5
16'7~.2

1.15
7.64
7.48 6.21

\21)4

Anll.\m.11.e ······· ············ 1)<)'1."\>\<?J °&)<>'1..---"'"· ··· " .

'7<> ~ ()~ ~ ()7 " '

9.ro
';).~

1.1).\\~-\

l/nited States Coast SurtJC!f._,;..Geograpnical .Positimu.
Name of station.
~---------

Section IX.-Galceston Day.
To station-

-aketch .l.
Distance. Distance.
Yards .

! I

Latitude.

!

Longitude.
0
I ,,

I
I'-

Azimuth.
0
I II

j Back azimuth. , Distance.
1
0 , ,, .

! \,) ' ,,

-----'------------:------:-----1-----1---.Md.res.

McCarty ·······.·········· I 29 49 21.61 W.6 38 59.19

7 51 28
61 47 35 99 11 19 205 06 ()7 254 23 21 338 21 38
248 10 43

I I Fort Anahuac ········ -----·\ 29 45 30.21 i
Van Pradelle's House ·····.. [ 29 46 29.91 NorthPass'TrinityRi·er ··.. J 29 48 30.39 i

Anahuac ········· ---- .···.. / 187 51 16 Lawrence Co·e. --- . ---- ----! 2414419

6 40 04.70

t:::~ ~~~~:::::::::::::I
.Anahuac ...·····. Fort Anahuac ··· --· --- . --··

I

4820.5 12040.2 8965.9 2593.9

5271.6 13166.8
9804.8

.Mila. 3.00

7.48

279 08 35 25 06 27 742355 158 21 51
68 11 56

5.57
1.61 1.18 1.23 2.64 2.85 1.69 3.36

2836.6 2077.2 2162.2 4641.0 5011.6 2965.7

I

I

I 6 40 31.84
6 41 25.94

---------·!

1899.5
1977.2
4243.9

-rn
·~
·~

w-""'"'·-::_,·~.-···-····i

l

.... ,._., ,w.· " ,....
1

I
I

314 15 09
274 59 09 337 48 43

McCarty's .····. ·--- ······.. Anahuac----- ·····.······.. McCarty ····.· ---- ···· -·-· Anahuac ·· : ·.········ - ·····

1-1

134 16 10
94 59 59 157 49 21

4582.8 2711.9 5411.8

·

5918.2

I Elm Grove ·····.···· ---··· i
Stevenson ········· ---- ····

29 28 49.05 /W.6 38 55.30 29 32 50.53
29 27 48.81

i !
!

19 51 18 117 35 35

Parr's Grove ······· ---- .·.. Smith's Point .··.···.······. Parr's Grove--··--· .·.· ---Sinith's Point .····..··.····. Parr's Grove .···... -------Stevenson ·····..····.··· --·
Shaw .··.·...·· _·········.. Stevenson · · · · · · · · · · · . . ····· Shaw ······················ Robinson Bayou · · · · · ·······

199 50 42 297 32 37

58-58.4 10983.0
13132.7 10229.9 79"25.2 10463.4

6406.6 12010.7 14361.5 11187 .l 8666.8 11442.5 15064.9 11322.6 12576.2 1157.8

3.64 6.83
8.16 6.36 4.92 6.50 8.li6 6.43

6 38 47.01
6 35 48.18

i

l I

9 42 OB 76 44 ()7
62 3-2

189 41 28
256 41 05

29 34 46.98 Rollover ··················

I j
I

152 36 28
6 32 46.12
20 51 29 69 46 02

5\

I

242 30 43

332 34 59 200 49 59 249 43 04 246 38 41 325 47 35

13775.9
10, 11500.1 11158.7

353.81

29 30 16.73 1W.6 29 16.14

66

41 54

'145 49 18

U11ited Sta:tes Coast Suri:ey.-:--Geogropli.ical Positions.
Nlllile of station.

Section JX.-Gah:eston Bay.
To station-

Sketch I.
Distance. Distance.
YMds.

Marsh

~oint

l

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0

.·············· \ 29 31 58.06 W.6 33 03.20 6 30 25.97

'

,,

,

I
I

Azimuth.
0

"

, ,,

I

Back azimuth. Distance.
0

, ,,

995525 185 03 03

Stevenson .····.···········. Robinson Bayou ··..···.···· Marsh Point ................ · Robinson Bayou ............ Marsh Point ..·.···········. Rolluver .·····.····.· ···"··

2i9 52 36 15 03 11 241 48 46 307 51 36 268 17 15 210 li 42

Mtin$. 9395.7 52-20.6
4801.5 4778.l
8078.7 3...."89.5

10274.9 5709.1 5250.8 52-25.2 8834.6 4253.5
\

Miles. 5.84 3.24
2.98

Shell Bank _············.. _\ 29 33 11.70 Musele Point ·········.·...
Wtst Bay.

29 32 05.81 IW.6 38 03.26 /

I

61 50 03 127 52 45 88 19 43 3J 18 ltl

2,97

5.02
2.42

Highland Bayou ....···....

'I

29 21 12.94 29 12 52.58 29 17 21.23 29 08 46.21 29 14 51.60

I\Y.6 58 48.31 !I
6 54 38.11
1 03 36.21

I

I
2-29 54 :u 289 C6 19 198 34 05 156 20 46

Dollar Point .··.·····.·····. Virginia Point ·.···········. Virginia Point ·············. Highland, Bayou ····..·····. Island, East Base ···.······. Highland Bayou .············ Island, East Base ··········. Hall's Bayou ··············· Islnnd, East Base ····.······ Highland Bayou . · · · · ······. Island, East Baae ··········. Virginia Point ···.····.····.
lslanq, East Base ····.·····. 1i\\!,\i\ll.1\i\. "B11.~ou · · · · · ·······

49 57 44 109 09 33 18 35 17 336 18 44 119 41 13 47 27 38 53 05 42 344 19 29 117 57 52 0 43 55 216 41 24 322 34 47 2.4.5 'AO 2.0 ~ 2.S OS
.·

13.555.1 1130"2.9 16818.9 12342.5 16717.7 10547.1 12623.6 16466.8 7817.6 11741.1 10638.9 3991.2 4.750.0
17~.'~

15151.5 12360.5 1839-2. 7 13497.4 18282.0 11534.0 13804.8 18007.6 8549.1 12839.7 11634.4. 4.364.7 5194.5 19024..0

8.61 7.02 10.45
7.1)1

Isllllld, East Base ·········· Hall's Bayou ···········.·· Island, West Base; ········. Black Point ···············

I
l

299 36 50 2-27 25 17 233 02 40 164 20 49

10.39 6.55 7.84 10.23 4.86 7.29 6.6 2.4

7 00 51 64 6 58 53.86
I

F..glo G - .···········.. \ 29 17 29.6'
S\11.ugntel: Rou~tL..........

I

I

297 55 47 180 43 52 36 43 19 142 35 31
&:. 2.1 38
1All
~1 ~

6 50 42.57 \

\

~ 1~ '16.94. w .6 51 58.25

2.
\ll.

Onited"Btates Ooast Burcey.-Ueographicat .Positions.
N ll1ll6 of station.
Beach ..................... Middle Deer Island "" ······
Spiµman '····· ············

· Seetion IX.-Galieston Bay.
To station-

Sketch I.
Dist.anoo. /Distance.
l'a1'tU. 5642.9 10630.7

r

Latitude.
0
I II

Longitude.
0

I

Azimuth.
0
I II

I

I
i

Back azimuth. ( Distance.
0
I II

29 13 57.96 W.6 5142.17 29 16 46.62 29 17 33.40 29 12 27.98
29 16 14.64

'

II

67 03 18 175 IO 51 135 43 56 210 50 05 14li 57 25
243 26 07

I~land, East Base ·.········· !
Virginia Point ··············
Hig~la_nd B~you ..·········.. Virguna Pomt ·············.

241 01 52
355 IO 36 315 41 31
30 50 54

Mttte:i. 5160.l 9721.I

M"&lu. 3.21 6.04 7.12 3. ~ 5.07 4.25 4.08 1.36 5.04 1.91 5.22 4.61 2.84 3.72 2. 4.7 6.52 8.27 6.12 7.43 3.09 6.27

6 53 51.89 6 55 58.98 6 55 54.23 6 57 50.76 6 58 12.11 6 58 17.Sl 7 00 39.0-2 7062018 7 05 33.00

114a3.5 5234.6 8157.8 6833.4 6563.5 2190.8

12525.2 5724-4 8921.1 7472.8 7177.7 ' 2395.8 8867.2 3359.6 9188.5 8121.5

Highl11nd Bayou ···········. Virginia Point ·············.

325 56

63. 58

w

Settle's House, (chimney) .·· Green'B HoUBe ············· Delesdernier' s ············· Caronkaway Island · · · · · ··· Caronkaway Point .········.

132 21 36 249 45 49 3'-20 05 05 33 40 47 172 17 25 231 05 49 167 44 20 262 13 44 217 53 55 2 34 00

Black Point .··.······.····· 312 20 09 Isl11nd, East Base ·········· · 1 69 46 26 Island, East Base .··.······. Black Point ····.····.····. -1

140 06 39 213 40 17

29 10 21.13 29 -12 26.33 29 12 53.13 29 11 47.85 29 05 21.95 29 07 05.47

Black Point ..·············· , 352 17 05 Island, East Base .·········· I 51 07 33 Black Point ..·············· Isllllld, East Base ·········· -1

I

8108.5 3(}72.1 840'2.3 7426.6 4576.6 5989.8 462-2.0 7609.2

!

347 4! w 8'2" 15 32

5004.8 6550.3
5054.5 8321-2

Black Point ········.·····.· ! 37 54 46 !Bland, West Base . · . · · ···· -1 182 33 54 Island, West Base ·········· 1 122 15 44 64 54 43 Black Point ······

MUBtang Bayou ············

302 13 04
244 51 05 230 23 59 173 52 55 50 13 59 149 37 45

··········1

10494.2 ' 13310.9
9.~"8.8

West End ·.·· ---· ······..
Dr. Jones ··············· _.

Island, West Base .········· / 50 26 16 Mustang Bayou ···.····· -·-·l 353 52 32 West End .····· ····.···· :Mw;truig Bayou .···········.

w. 7

03 11.41

---·l

230 12 50 329 36 13

ll!N46 4931.1 10084.9

I

I 14556.4
1079-2.2 13073.4 5447.2 11(1'2d.5

11476.1

UniteJ. States Ooast Survei1.-Geographical Posi.tfuns. Secti<m IX.-Galveston Bay. Sketch L
Name of station. Latitude;
0

Longitude.
0
~

Azimuth.
0
I U

I

To station-

IBack azimuth. ) Distance.
I
0 / "
I

Distance. \ Distance.

~~~~~~~~~·1-~~~~-1-~~~~-1-~~~~,
I ,,

.
Yards. . \ 11293.1 3675.2 Miles 6.42 2.09.,

,,

Ayres ···················· \ 29 10 34.41 W. 7 07 52.00

338 39 28
227 33 46

llezquit ·················. \ 29 07 47.721
Bastrop ·················· , Peninsula _ ················ Christmas Point. ·········· 29 06 28.21

7 08 30.31 7 10 07 .00 7 10 14.14

313 06 01
205 24 33 285 22 39

I West · End------------------1 . I . Mustang Bayou .·····. ··----1 I , I
/ West End ..·. _--- ---- --·---/ ; MustangBayou·-----·--·---' Mustang Barnu __ ·· _ --- _·· __

158 40 36 47 34 31 133 07 27
25 25 37

I 10:t26.8 Metres.
3360.7 6566.0 8192.3 7683.8 11598.7

29 01 2"2.841

I
I
I

I

2115312
181 10 35 225 54 42

! I i West End .··· ·--- ------~---1105

7180.4 8958.9

4. 08 5. 09

"'

24 52 31 55 03

8402.8 12684.0
10-28-2.8 11573.8 7290.8 6393.1

4. 77 7.2l

29 04 51.04 IW.7 09 06.32

15 58 35
260 37 08

IWest Bastrop ..·· ·----------···-End ···· -·----··...... .······· _... · · · · · . IPeninsula West End ················· _
I Pemnsula ·········.···· ____
I

45 56 59

1 10 38

195 58 02 80 38 52

!
I

9403.0 10583.5 6667.0 5846.1

5. 84
6. 58 4.14 3.63

rn
?
0

t:1

Ogster Bay.

.

~

&nLouis ················.
Mud Island ········· : ·· ···Follet ····················

29 0419-41iW.70656.37 29 05 43.38 290230.11 29 03 14.94 7 07 3'1.10 7 09 00.46 7 11 30.36

127 34 52 44 33 25 108 28 27 28 2"2 01 166 12 40 43 54 36 200 44 35 329 08 19
\
311> 23 'n
~ ~7 .\B

Bas~p - ··············· :..
1

307:f19 224 31 49

6503.3 7627.0

7111.8 8340.7 4766.l

4.04 4.74

IPeniru;ula Bastrop - ··········· - ···· - · I 346 12 08 ···- ······. _·····. \ 223 54 00
(
1

I Peninsula · _. _ .············· /

Bastrop_ ······.···.······. i 288 27 13 208 20 43

I

4358.3 9114.3 7547.6 2874.6 6362.6 40-iQ.l

9967.I
825.'l.8 3143.5
6958.0 4396.S

2.71 5.66
4.69 1.69

Freshwater ········ ~ ~ ·····.

Bastrop - ·.·· ·.·· ···· ····... 20 45 16 '\Peni,n,,"\lla .·········· _. __ ·· __ \ 149 08 56
I>emnsm\\ ____ -··- ···· ·····-_\ 136

Cuttoowood · · ············ _ ~ 04 34_1s

\w .i

13

.\L~

l\astro-p ········· ---· ........

~ 49

~

os '3'1.

\

4.07 2.49

8133.4 \
t>TI9.0

8894.a
7413.3

Unz'tetl States CiJaSt Su'J'IJey.-Geogt'ophieal Positions.
- . -

Ga/1JeSton Bay.--.SectU»t .IX.
To station-

Slcetc!t I.
~-,-

Name of station. Ra.ttiesnake ·············.. Oyster Creek. ···········.. Benson .···········.······ Chocolate ················· Alligat.or Head ·············

Latitude.
0

Longitude.
0
J

,

28 58 37:69 W.7 14 05.00 28 69 30.87 29 01 05.82 29 12 18.87 7 16 24.98 7 11 48;51 7 10 17.33

"

H

I I

Azimnth.
0

I

----

183 19 01 230 50 55 205 20 16 251 01 10 154 32 04

'

"

l

I

Back azimuth. Distance. _Dist _ance.
-0

I

I I Distan~.

,

If

I

\ Cottonwood ···············. Peninsula ·················· Cottonwood ·····.·····.···· Peninsula ·····.·········· - Cottonwood ·····.·········. Peninsula ·····.···········. Hall Bayon··.·············. Island, Wert Base .·········· Hall Bayou .·····.······· - ·.
Islarul, West Base ···········

3 19 0-l 60 62 47 25 21 35 71 04 10 334 31 09 78·24 42 49 20 37 113 13 35 7 57 18 117 15 53

Metres. 1099-l.7 8054.7

Yards. 12o-21.3 8808.4

Miles. 6.83 5.01

10331.9 10610.6 7105.0 2606.6 14279.2 16626.7 12776.2 699-l.7

11298.7 11603.4 7769.8 2850.6 15615.1 18182.5 13971.7 7647.0

6.42 6.60

4.41
1.62 8.87 10.33 7.94 4.34

258 23 56
229 17 21 293 08 59 187 56 46 297 14 00

29 10 30.21 W.7 04 41.71

United States Coast Survey.-Gcographical Positions.
Name of station.
SAN DIEGO BA.Y.

Sccti.on X.-Coast
To station-

of California. Sketch J, No.

10.
-

Latitude ..
0
I II

Longitude.
0
I
JI

Azimuth.
0

I
East

Back azimuth. Distance. Distance. Distance.

' "

·
Base..................

0

' "

,,)letres.
1372-l
2051.7 1388.1 3052.8 2083.6 3&,QS.6 3500.2 402"2.l 5030.5 3131.9 1830.4 3134.7 l8;J0.1 7167.6 6'249.4 7146.7 5983.7 7914.6

Yanl$.

Miles.

SEast End S.uDu:coBASE,( WestEnd
Ballast Point ·············· Playa........ ····. ···· ··.· Point Loma............... Fitch's Hill...............
O~rvatory, Transit.......

3'2 41 17.91 E. 0 01 50.63 32 4140.9-2 0 01 05.52

301 Cl5 29.2

121 05 53.6 78 45 34.1 37 03 41.4 121 35 08.0

1500.ft
2243.7 1518.0

0.85
1.28

32 4104.92
32 42 09.81

0 00 33.38
0 00 10.78 0 00 05.41

258 44 52.4 217 03 24.0
301 34 14.1 343 35 2"2.0
234 01 43. 7

East Base.................. West Base.................
East Base ...·...·.·······.. Ballast Point ..···..·······.

0.86
1.90 1.30

163 35 34.3
54 0'2 40.5 2 14 00.3
139 06 57.6 181 13 24.9 113 04 25.9 7 47 41.~ 113 03 12.2 7 53 2().2 199 29 50.2 233 30 10.8
305 34 46.0 261 37 39.9 354 18 37 .3

3338.5 2"478.6
3703.5 39-26.1 4398.5 5501.:l 3425.0 2001.7 3428.0
~2.0

[11

32 40 13.34

18-2 13 57.4

East Base ..·.··.··········· P!aya .....····...··....·.·· East Base .······.·········. Point Loma ..·.·····..··.·· East Base.................. 1''itch'sHilL............ .··· East Base.................. Fitch'sHill....... ·····. ···· East B11Se .····..····.····· : Fitch's Hill.................
Fitch'sHill. ···············. Point Loma ............... . Old Town ··..···· ,, ···.··.·

2.10 -0 2.23. 0

32 42 56.62 E. 0 00 09.53 32 41 57.96
0 00 00.00 117 13 22.00

319 06 03.0 113 27.1 293 03 26.1 187 47 36.6 293 02 12.4 187 53 15.0 19 30 39.9 53 31 55.2

2.50 3.13
1.95 1.14 1.95
1.~4

?

Observatory, Azimuth Point.
Old Town . ··· · · · · · · · · · · · ··

32 41 57 .75 W.O 00 00.11 32 44 57 .26 E. O 03 22.54 32 40 41.57 E. 0 03 52.66

7838.3 6834.2 78!5.4
654~.6 8655 '>

·4.45
3_s.g

Black Fish Point ···········

125 36 46.5 81 39 42.5 174 18 53.6

4.44

3.72
4.9"~

False Bay ················· \ ~ 4.\ 0-~.1>3 :W.O 00 10.85

328 01 51.6 Ea.st Base.... . ·· . · · · · · · · · · . ~ 06 1}4.8 O\Cl. Town. ··· , ·······_.,.....

148 02 57 .2 1'.\ ~ 09-l

5976.3
~5.Q

~rka G~ ~

Grun;y.-,-OcoprzphKa/ .P-aztm.T·.
/ Longitude.
I

He&llOn X.-Oxzn q/'" Ca/f/'on1W.

Skdcn .T, ~\0. 1 o.

Name of station.

(

Latitude.
0 , ,,

i

0

,

,,

IndiAn Point ···············

32 41 25.21 :E. 0 06 10.07

I ~.~. I
.
0 , ,,

!

·
To stationBack azimuth.
0

{Vista.nee.
Metres. 7854.4 9753.7
~-2

i

I

/Distance. Distanc
Yards.

, ,,

146 16 33.'l 76 54 40.2 69 25 55.2 82 50 09.9 15 17 26.5 329 29 09.5 140 05 2"2.8 194 56 30.6

Old Town .················· Point Loma ···············. Black Fish Point ············ Fitch's Hill ..············.· Black Fish Point ············ Indian Point ················
Black Fish Point ············ Indian Point ···············. Indian Point ···············. Beach I. ...................

Niles.
4.88 6.06 2.37 4.51 3.26 2.68 3.36 2.74 2.55 I.20 2.51 1.62 3.30 2.34
2.~l

3'26 15 02.5 256 51 23.0 249 24 41.0 262 47 40.6 195 16 57.8 149 29 55.0 320 04 32.2 14 56 54.2 3"26 07 21.9 255 58 36.9

8589.3 10666.4 4180.9 7929.7 5744.1 4725.4 4160.0 48".U.8 4488.3 3861.4 4415.8 2852.6 5812.9 4120.7 4605.4 5385.3 1465.1 4&35.0

New Town ················

32 43 26.07

0 04 45.83

7251.2 5252.6 4321.l 3805.9 4412.0 4104.3 3531.0 4033.0 2608.5 5315.5 3768.1 4211.3 49-.U.5 1339.7 4467.0

Beach I. ... ---·------- ....

32 39 06.81 32 39 34.57 32 38 10.17 32 36 24.06 32 35 46.851

0 05 26.39

rn
0 ~

Choya Point ··············· Point San Augustin ·········

0 07 37-881 146 08 09.3 75 59 47.9 0 07 46.14 0 06 34.20 0 09 00.86 115 36 28.7 175 16 0-2.2 160 35 07.0 209 50 11.4

t:;

Beach!. ········· ---- .····· 295 35 13.3 ChoyaPoint ················ , 355 15 57.7 Beach!. ··················· Point San Augustin ·········· 340 34 30.4 29 50 50.2 285 45 21.0 333 41 07.6 319 12 06.6 11 56 43.6

Beach n ..................
Santiagito ······ ---- ·······

"'

~

105 46 44.9 I Beach Il .·······.·········· 153 41 52. 7 1 Point San Augustin ·····.···· 139 12 26.2 191 56 24.4 Beach Il .·.··....··.······· Point San Augustin ··········

3.06 0.83 2.78

Bluff Point ················
Po1NT CmrcEPTION, CoilT

32 35 48.28 .E. 0 01 10.67

SURVEY OBSERVATORY ···· Ponrr Pnros, CoAsT SURVEY OBSERVATORY, NF.AR MO!'I·

34 26 56.30 · 120 25 33.00 .······..····· (Sket.chJ, No. 3) ·······.····. - ···········.·······.·· -·· ·· - · · ·· ···· · ·;.·· I I 363759.86t12154 22.00 i·············· (Sketch J, No. 4) ················ ~ ···.· ····!···:.:!;)!.:.'-<. · :··.······ ···· ·····
~ta!Ji.':,·,

. I

.

TEREY .... .,. ........ · · · .,,. · ·

United States Coast Burve:y.-Geograpkicol Positions.
Name of station. SA.c'i FRANCISCO BAY. Point Avisidera ············ Yerba Buena ·············· Angel Island ···· _······ - - ·· Presidio Hill ..····.······. Point San J~-·----· ······ Fort Point.··--····---· ···· Point Lobos .·· -··········. J,>oint Boneta ·············· South Fa:rallone .·· - ········ Latitude.
0
I

Section X.-Coast
To station-

of California. Sketch J, No.

9.

I

i

Longitude.
0
I

Azimuth.
0
I
II

,.

,,

I

Back azimuth. / Dist.ance. Distance. Distance;
0
I

"

Mares.

lards.
~

.Miles.

37 43 30.57 E. 0 06 00.74 37 48 33.46 0 05 53.15

......... ·---- ............
358 51 39

..........................................................................

.................................
178 51 44

-...... --......... 9339.5

...... -- .... --- ... ...............
1()-213.4

Point Avisidera .············

5.80

37 51 39.40 E. 0 01 59.68 .................................... 37 47 i).60 0 00 00.00 122 26 47 .65 258 18 09 201 15 52 266 41 29 177 36 18 324 4553 271 24 33 257 39 33

·-·--- ........................................ -·---- ..................................... -- ..... -....... -- ---- ·----- ........... -...........
Yerba Buena .··········.··· Aligellsland ··· _········· - ·. Yerba Buena .·········.·.·. Angellsland ···············. Presidio Hill.. ·············. Point SanJostl ·············. Presidio Hill ······.···.···. Fort Point ················· Point Lobos ············· _.. 78 21 45 21 17 05 86 43 46 357 36 12 144 46 21 91 26 21 77 40 56 8820.6 80t?5.3 5466.4 6050.8 1930.4 4295.1
...... ..... ..

9645.9 8820.0 5977.9 6617.0 2111.0 4697.0 3723.6

5.48 5.01 3.40 3.76

37 48 23.29 E. 0 02 10.02 37 48 26.75 37 47 12.02 37 49 09.73 37 41 43.70

w.o

00 45.53

1.20
2.67 2.12 3.08 2.76

0 02 15.98 0 04

00.891·-~-~-~--[··: .

.............. ............................... ........... ............... ............. ......................
105 30 58 144 44 26

3405.0

-.......... -....................... .....................
542"2.2 4860.6

w.o 32 28.10

. ---·--·--· -................ ~~-~--- ...... ·-·· .......... ·-·- .... r·:·-· ........ ---· ...........

4958.3 4444.7

S. Doc. 3.
APPENDIX No. 13.

443

Letter.oftlie Secretary of tke Treasury, communicating to il1e 811perintendent of tlie Coast Su.rve.y tlte art of <;onKress .;:equ.iri·i1g exa_rniwitio11s tq. be made in relation to ligltt4io11sc~, ligl1t-bouts, beaci:ni~,· buoys, .~-v. '
..TREASURY DEPARTMENT,.

Ma1:ck 29, JS.51. . SIR: Plcason_ton, esq., the general : si1perintendent of the light:house establishn_1ent, having reported .to me that preliminary surveys,· as required by 2d, 3d, aud °"'th sections of an act entitled "An act making· appropriations for light~ho.uses, light-boats, buoys, &c., and provid:ing _for the erection and establishmen~ pf the smne, and for r!ther p\1rposes," approved the· 3d March, lf51, are necessal'y to determine the sites and ascer.tain more fully what is required by i}le public exigencies, in reference· to all"J the light-houses, light-boats,_ beacons, and buoys, for.. '".hic:h appropriations are made by !he act requiring that the ·superi,11:;_; tend.ent of the Coast Survey sh_all perform this duty on the seaboard; · vou are directed to canse stich examination to be made as will enable }·ou to furnish tl~e inform_ation particularly _suggested in the ~d section of the act, on· the seacoast of Maine, l\fassachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, l\faryland,·North.Carnlina, Flbrida, Texas, California, and··Orego!l. · . . . .. · . A newspaper containing the act of Coi1g'ress. herei11 ref~rred to, the places to be ·exai~ined, and the ol?jects to be obtained from s1,1ch examination, is herewith enclosed. · \Vhen the several localities have .been visited, and such examinatioil niade as will e_nable you to comply with the requirements of the a~t. yo_~l will make report to this department of the result of such ~xaminati6ris, having special regar.d to the. inquiries suggested in the 3d_ section of the act, in every case of proposed expenditure. · · _:It is desirable that this report should describe the kinci of structure, or ·other improvement, authoriie<l by the act which you \vould recommend for adoption, and be accompanied by_sketch~s indicating the precise points wl~ere _they shc)ul.d be placed-; and· when it is nece;ssary to purchase the sites, the. names of the bwners should also be stated. · Very respectf~lly ,'your o~_edient serv3;nt,.

s.

·
Prof.

A; D. BACHE,

W. L; HODGE, Acti11g. Secretary of tltc Tieasury.
.

S1111erintendent. U. 8. Coast Sur:iicy.

AN

ACT maki~g appropiiation~. for light-houses, light-boats, "buoys, &-c;'-. and proriliug fur the erection lllld establishment of t.he same, and for other purposes .

. Be it enacted: "bj1 the Senate and House of Representa_tives of the United States ·of America. in· Co11gress assembled,. That. the· following approf>riations be, and the same a.re hereby made, and directed to be paid out of any .money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to enabl~ the

444

S. Doc. 3.

Secretary of,the Treasury to carry the provisions of this act into effect: Provided, however, If a good title to any land which it may be ncces~ar)' to use cannot be obtained on reasonable terms, or the exclusive nght to ~uch land as cannot b.e acq?ire<l by cessio~, ~hen the interest of Umted States demands 1t, before the appropnat10n would by law fa l into the surplus fund, in any and all such cases the appropriations ~b~l be applicable to the o~jects for which they are made, at any time w1tb~n two years after the first meeting of the legislature in any State whercJll such land may be situated, subsequent to the passage of this act, to wit:

thU

MAINE.

For buoys on White's and Thom's ledges, and on Pond Island reef, at the mouth of the Kennebec river, three hundred dollars. For a light-house on Pond island, at the entrance of Narraguagus bay, four thousand dollars.
MASSACHUSE'.rTS.

For a Jight-hoat on the Shovelful shoals, off Chatham, twelve thousand five hunclred dollars. For eleven buoys in the channel to Commercial Point and Neponset river, in Dorchester, one thousand dollars. d For a light-house at the head of Holmes' Hole harbor, three thousan five hundred dollars. For a beacon on Fawn bar, near Deer island, Boston harbor, tWO thousand five hundred dollars. For two iron spindles on the northeast ledge of the Graves, and on Holmes' ledge, Boston harbor, two thousand dollars.
RHODE ISLAND.

For a light-boat off Brenton's reef, fift~en thousand dollars.
CONNECTICUT.

For a can-b~oy on Penfield reef, off Black Rock harbor, in t,ong Island so~ncl, rn acldition to a former appropriation in the act of t:ieptember, c1gliteen hundred and fifty, one hundred and thirty-five dollars·
NEW YORK.

For a light-house on Flynn's knoll, near Sandy Hook, thirty thousand dollars. For a light-ho~se on. ~forse Shoe reef, Niagara river, twenty-five thousand dollars, 111 add1t10n .to the former appropriations. ho For a li<rht-bouse on the pier, at the mouth of Sodus bay, and 1. t o the beucon l' 'd pier . to Grassy Pomt, . near Pow removal ot 1gl1t on sa1 Glasgow, six thousand dollars.

S. Doc.

a..

446

th For a light-house on the northern extremity of Gardiner's island, six , 011sand dollars. H For a beacon on the Sand spit in the harbor of Sng Harbor, seven .U11dre<l dollars. · For the completion of two beacons near Fort Hamilton, t\VO thouMand dollars. · For four spar-buoys at Fire Island inlet, three hundred dollars.
MARYLAND,

For a light-house at Fishing Battery,· Chesapeake bay, five thousand dollars. For a light-house on the Bodkin shoal, mouth of the Putn.psco river, in ah~dition to the former appropriation, seventeen thousand dollars. (When t is is completed, the present light on Bodkin Point to be discontinued.)
NEW JERSEY.

For a fog-bell at the Newark light-house, two humlrcd an<l fifty dolln.rs. · t. For completion of the beacon in Passaic river, four spar-buoys in he same, a spar-buoy at Mill Rock, and a beacon ut the Corner Stake,
ll.eru: Elizubethtown l 1 oint, eight hundred dollars.
NORTH CAROLINA.

'For~ buoy on Middle Ground shoal, Beaufort harbor, two hundred

For a light-house on Beacon island, six tl~ousand dollars. . li'or n li<Yht-boat near Ocmcoke channel, fifteen thousnnd dollars. d For an h·on-buoy on Diamond shoal, off Cape Hatteras, eight hunted clollnrs. lh For n floating bell-beacon on Cape Huttcrus outer shoals, eight ousand dollars . . For a light-house on the Upper Jettce, in Cnpe Fear river, inclucl" lllg n bridge froin the shore to the light-liouse, thirteen thousan<l <lollan:.
OHIO.

doUn.rs.

d For n light-house on Rock or Mouse island, Luke Erie, five thousand
Olla.rs. Por u. light~house on Green island, Lake Erie, five thousand dollars. b li'or a beacon-light on Cedar Point, a range to enter Sandusky ay, five hundred dollars. For buoys at the entrance of Port Clinton, Luke :Erie, two hundred a11a filly dollars.

as

MICHIGAN.

'.For a light-house ut Dengley's harbor, five thousand dollars.

S. Doe. 3.
FLORIDA,

For buoys at the entrance of Musquito harbor, five hnnclred dollars.
OREGON.

For a ligl.lt-house and fog-signal at Umqua, fifteen thousand dollal'S· For fog-signals for the light-houses at Cape Disappointment, Cape Flattery, and New Dungeness, three thousand dollars.
CALIFORNIA.

For a light-hourn at Humboldt harbor, fifteen thousand dollars.
'l'EXAS.

For a light-house at Aransas Pass, twelve thousand five hundred dollars. d . F'or three light-l~ouses of the third class at H~~f Moon shoal, R 0 _ Fish bar, and at Clopper's bar, Galveston bay, fifteen thousand do1 lars. SEC· 2. Aud be it furtlter enacted, That if such person as the Secretary of the 'I'reasury shall designate shall report, in any of the cas~S herein provided for, tlrn.t preliminary surveys are necessary to determine the site of a proposed light-house, or light-bout, beacon, or b~o~: or .to nsce:tain :nore folly what the P?blic ?xigency <l,emai:ds, the Se~f retmry of the rreasury shall therefore direct the Supcrmtendent l the survey of the coast of the United States to perform such duty on tie seaboard, and the colonel of the corps of topographical engineers to perform such duty on the northwestern lakes. . 11 Snc. 3. And be it jurtlier enacted, That the officer so directed sh~ ~orthwit.h enter upon the discharge of the duty; ancl after fully asccrt'.110: 1~1g l.~w fact;:;, slwl~ rcpor~: First, ~vhcthcr tl~e propose<l fi.tcility to nu.vi~~e t10n is tlw most suitahle for the ex1gcncywlnch exists; and, scconJ, ~he 'f it should be plaeed if the interests of commerce demand it: Tlnrd, 1 the thing proposed be not the most suitable, whether it is expedient ,td make any other kind of improvement: Fourth, whether the propose t light has any connexion with other lights, and if so, whether it canno f 0 he so located ~.s tc~ subscrvc .b.oth the general and the local w.a?~s trade nnd nav1gat1on; a.ncl, fifth, whether there be any, and if anY 1 what other facts of importunce touching the subject. ' SEc. 4. And be it jurtlwr enacted, Thu.t all 'such reports shall, a~ speedily as may be, be laid before the Secretary of the Tre.asurb' a.ncl if such as to authorize the work without further legislo.uon, . 1 shall forthwith proceed with it, otherwise such reports shall be ~a . before Congress at the next,, ensuing session; but, in all cases"' 1 the person dcsignat~d by tne Secretary of the Treasury, under. t _ second section of this act,, ~oes not report such preliminary exu.mina_ tion as expedient, the prov1s10ns of this act shall without <leluy be car

0 c{ e

d

ried into execution.

S. Doc. 3.

447

SEc. 5. And be it further enacted, That the salary of the keeper of the Minot's Ledge light shall hereafter be at the rate of on? thousand dollars per annum, and the assistants five hundred ancl fifty dollars per annum. Sn:c. 6. And be it fttrtlwr enacted, That in case it should be impossible, in the opinion of the colonel of the toporrraphical corps, to obtain a perfect title to the necessary land upon wi1ich to build the lighthouse heretofore ordered to be built a.t the mouth of the Calumet river, on Lake Michigan, sai<l la.nd shall be appraised by three disinterested persons, under oath, and the light-house s.hall immediately be built, and the appraised value of said land shall be pni<l to any person who slmll make to tho United States what the Attorney General shall consider a perfect title thereto. SEC. 7. And be it further enacted, That hereafter in all new light-houses, and in all light-houses requiring new lighting npparn.tus, ancl in ail light.:.houses as yet unsupplied with illuminating npparatus, the lens or l<'resncl system shall be adopted, if; in the opinion of the 8ecretary of the Treasury, the public interest will be subscrved thereby. S1w. 8. And be it further enacted, 'l'hut the Secretm·y of the Treasury be, and is hereby, authorized and rccp1irccl to cause a board to be convened, at as early a clay as may he prnct.ica.blc, aii:cr the passage oft.bis act, to be composed of t\Yo officers of the navy ot' high rank, two o!l:icers of engineers of the army, and such civil o!licer of high scientific attainments as may Le under the orders or at the disposition of the 'rrcasury Department, and a junior officer of the navy to act as secretary to said ban.rd, whose duty it shall be, under instructions from the 'l'rcnsnry Department, to inquire into the condition of the light-house establishment of the United States, and make a geuernl detailed report and programme t<~ guide le~isla~ion, .in ~xten.cling m;d improving our present Aystem. of. cc~nstruct.Inn, 1~l~1111mat.10n, m,:p~ct1on, and superintendence: Pr01ndetl, rhat llO adcht1011al compcmsut10n shall be allowed any penmn serving on said board. SBC · .9. And be it fnrtfwr enacted, That the President he, nud is hereby, required to cause to be detailed from the engineer corp" of t.hc army, from time to time, such ollicors as may be nec..:cssury to suporintcntl the construction and renovating light-houses. Approved Murch 3, 1851.

APPENDIX No. 14.
Letter.~

ef .tlte S1tP,erintcnd~nt ef tit? 0?1ut {.;urney to tlte Secretary ef tlte Treasury, 1~pplying fur u!furmatwn in regard tu tlw ligltt-liousc matters referred to in tlw a.ct qf Congress.

CoAs'I' Sun.VEY 0 1~ 1·'ICE, ]tfarcli 31, 1851. Sm: I have the honor to acknowle 1lcro the receipt of yours of March 29 infonninrr me that the Fifth Autlito~· luul re1;>01'ted that preliminary 0 su:veys are rcc1uircd in reforcncc to all the hght-houses, light-boats, beacons, an<l buoys, for which appropriations urc made by the act of

S. Doc. 3;
March 3d, 1851, and directing me, in pursuance of the law, to cause the neccssa1y examinations to be made, and to report what the pub· lie exigency demands in the matter. . It is desirable in the execution of the law, and of your instruct.JOf1 9 · that such pap13rs as may be in the possession of the department, g;1vlll~ information in regard to the necessity for these: several objects reterre to in the act, should be examined in this office. I would therefore request that you will give the necessary direction for their transfer to me,· to be returned when the report is made. Yours, respectfully,

A. D. BACHE, Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey·
. Hon. W. L. HonGE, Acting Secretary

ef tlte

Treasury.

CoAST SuuvEY 0FFICF11 Wasltington City, April 1, 1851· Sm: T woulcl rrspcct.fully request to be informed which of the light· houses and bf'acons, for which appropriatiobs were made Ly the act approved March 3, 1851, have been commenced. Very rcspectfolly, yours,

A. D. BACHE,
Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey·
Hon. W. L. HoDGE, Acti11g Secretary

ef the

Treasury.

APPENDIX No. 14, bis.

Letters from tlw Secretary ef tlte Treasury to t!te Superi11tcnrlent rf tl1c ,Coast ·~urvey, communicating reports from the Fifl!t Auditor, in relation to ltgltt-lwuae matters referred to in tlte act ef Congress.
'fnEASURY DEPARTMENT,

AJiril 3, lSIH'. Sm: I transmit for. your ii:formation, and as :1 reply to the i~quu:~ made m your letter of the lst mstant, an extract from a lett.cr adchesse to the department by Pleusonton, esq. · I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

.s.

WM. L. HODGE,
Acting &crctary

ef tlte

'l'reasury·

Prof, A. D. BACHE, Superintendent Coast Sm-vey, ·wasliington.

S. Doc ..3.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

449

Fifth Auditor's Office, April 3, 18()1. Sm: In answer to your note of the 2d instant, just received, I have · the honor to inform you that no step has been taken by me for building any of the light-houses, or light-vessels, for which· appropriations were lllade on the 3d March last; considering it necessary that the several ·Sites should he previously examined and reported upon by the officers to be appointed for the purpose. And with respect to three which it had been previously determined to build, and for which additional appropriations were necessru.·y, and Were made by that act, I was prevented from taking any step towards building them, by a clause in the a.ct requiring the President to cause to be detailed engineers of the army for the purpose of superintending the construction and renovation of light-houses. I have the honor to be, sir, respectfolly, your obedient servant,

S. PLEASONTON.

WM. L. Hon<lE, Esq., Acting Secretary ef the Treasury.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT,

April 6, 1851. Sm: In further replY, to yo'1r letter of the 1st instant, I enclose a copy of a letter from the Fifth Auditor, under <lute of the 2d instant. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, WM. L. HODGE, Acting Secretary qf the 'l'reaswrtj. Prof. A. D. BACHE, Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey, Wasltington, D. C.

TREAsunY DEPARTMEN'r,

Fifth Auditor',, O.flice, Ai1ril 2, 1861. Sm: In reply to your note of the 1st instant, requesting me to furnish Profes~or Bache with sue~ paper.s as may be in this offi?e givin$ information as to the necessity and importance of constructmg the lighthouses and light-boats for which appropriations were made by the light-house law of the 3d March last, I have to state that with three C:icceptions, which I shall state, I have no knowledge of the reasons on 'Which the several appropriations were mude. 'rhe Committee on Comtnerce of the House o~ llepresentativ~s reported the hill, which ":~S not printed, the last mght of the session. I had no knowledge oi it Ulltil 'Passed into a law. It is ;rresumed the committee made the npPropnation upon the application of individuals of which I have no 1'llowled~e. Hence I can give Profossor Bache no information that '11rould rud him, or the officers under him, in forming an opinion as to expediency, or otherwise, of building the light-houses, lisht-boats, uoys, &c., for which apprnpriations are made. The necessity fo1· the

the

90

450

S. Doc. 3.

examination is apparent, however, from the many lights on the coast and lakes, and the fact that, on some parts of the coast, the lights are now so numerous that it is impossible to distinguish one from another, and they are hence becoming a nuisance. The exceptions referred to above are, the three additional appropriations recommended by this office, viz: For the light-house ~n Horse Shoe reef, Niagara river, $26,000; for a light-house on Bodkin shoal, mouth of the Patapsco, (seven-foot kuoll,) $17,000 dollars; for a light-house at the upper jettee, Cape Fear river, includiiig a briclg:e from the shore to the light:l10use, $13,000. 'fhese are works which it has been determined to prosecute, and need not, therefore, be examined. I have the honor to be, sir, respcctfolly, your obedient servant,

S. PLEASONTON.
WILLIAM L. HoDGE, Esq.,

Acting BccrctanJ

ef tlte

Trcw.'Ury.

APPENDlX No. 15.
Table :showing the rcsult1

of exami1iati011:s for :sitc:s of light-houses. beacons, buoys,
Special locality. ·

~i-., ref erred to the Superintendent Sun:ey by the Secretary of the TreaS'ltry, in accordance u:ith acts of Congress.

of the

Cotu&

Section.\

State.

' No. ,

I

.. · ame ···· ·····
Massach.usetts · -1

1!
2 3 4

"t

I White'.... Thom'o ,..

II

5 6 7 Rhode Mand ·· ·I 8 Conneeticut ·.·· i 9 New York ······ IO 11 12 13 14 New Jeraey ···· I 17

.

I

I

Maryland.... · .

IV

North _Carolina..

15 16 19 20

; t
I

f;

··.···· : ·· · · · · . ....,. · · · · · · · · · · · · . Lk.... Comm'g woodhWI····· Pond Island reef, mouth of Kennebec .···.·· do ·····.·········.·····. do .····.·····. do ·····. Pond island, Narraguagus bay............. Light-house ·············. do .··········. do...... Shovelful shoals, near Chatham .···· :..... Light-boat. ·········· - ··· do ···········. do...... Channel to Commercial point and W epon· selmtesri~serH.o·l·e·,:..·..:rt··b·a-;s·Vi-·m·e·;a·r·d··.· ·· ···· ·· ····· Buoys ···· .: ········ Lieutenant McBlair ·······.. ......, , Bug-lights ··· - ····.······. do .··· - . do ··········· -. Fawn bar .···· __ ······. Boston harbor.... Beacon ·················· do ·····. do ········· - · · Harding's l~e and ~he Graves, do.:.... · · ~indles, with cones ········ do .····· do...... · · · · · . 1 j Off Brenton areef, Narragansett bay ······ Light-boat ·········· ···.-··do ·· ··:· do._........... Peafield reef, oft" Black rock ········· - . · · · Can-buoys · · · · · · . · · Lieuts. Jenkins and W oodlmll. j .EJynn's knoll, ~dy Hook ··_ ··· ; · : ······· Light-house · · · · · · · · ~ht-house ~ard ·· ; · · . · . · · lliorthern extremity of Gardiner s i~land ·········· do............ Lieuts. Jenkins !llld "\\ oodhull.I Sand spit in SagHarbor ·················· Beacon ················ do ···· do ········ do .···. Fort Hamilt:i>n- ············.··· - · . · · · ··. Beacons ··············· do ···· do ·······. do..... 1 i:rre hla~d mlet, Long !&and · · · · · · · · · · · · Spar-buoys ········ · 1·. ·.........._: ....... : . . . . . . . j New~k I~ht-hoUBe...... ··· · ·· ······ ···. Fog-bell·_-.... ····· L1euts. Jenklll811lld "\\oodhull. P~c f!Ver, near.... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Spar-buo) s .········.··. do ··.. do ········ do...... PMSalc nver ··················· , ······· Beacon ···········.···. do ··.. do ········ do .···· i MillRock ···········.·····.············ Buoy ·················· do ···· do ········ do ····· I Elizabethtown point. · · · · . · · · . . · · · . · · · · · . Beacon ·····.··· - · . · ··. do ...·· do ········ do. · · · · I Fishing battery, Chesapeake bay.......... Light-house ·· · · · · · · Lieutenant .Almy ········ · ·· · Bodkin ~hoal, Pat11psco river .········..·.·····. do... · · . · · · · · . . ·.··.··. - ·.·····.·.··..·..· , Middle Ground 6hoal, Beaufort harbor..... Buoy ·· ·· ·· ·· · · ·· ·· Lieut. Commanding Jenkins.. I Beacon island............ ··· · · · · . · · · · ·. Light-house ·····.·.······ do ·········· Maffit ····

,~

IObject recommended.

By whom examined.

I-......... '"' "'

·Reportof superintend'nt.

Recommended July 28 Recommended July 28 Recommended Sept. 1

I Ho

·I

I

Recommended April 29 Recommended July 19 Recommended April 29 Recommende4 Ap~ 29 Recommended April 29 Recommended June 13 Not recommended. Recommended June 13 Recommended June 13 Recommended Jun? 13 Recommended April 29 Recommended June 13 Already placed. . Recommended June 13 Already placed. Jlecommended June 13 Rec-0rumended Nov. 20 Recommended .April 29 Recommended Apnl 29 Eir'n made, but report not received Nov. 28.

21 Ocraooke channel..... · · · · . · · · · · · · · ·· · · . Light-boat ·· _············· do ·····.·····. do. 22 ( Diamond ehoal, off Cape BatteBS. · · · · · · · · Buoy ·············· )······ do. · · · · · · · · ·J enkin.s · ·1Recommended April 29

STATEMENT-Continued.
Section. State. North Carolina ·· Florida ········ Tens'. ········ No. 23 24 25 29
Special locality.

Object recommended.

By whom examined.

Report of superintend'nt.
Reoommended April 29 Recommended Oct. 15 Recommended Oct. 1 Not recommended. Recommended June 17 Recommended June 17 Recommended June 17 Recommended Nov. 19 Recommended Feb. 13 ~mmended Feb. 13 Recommended Mar. 13 Recommended Mar. 14 Report not rec'dNov.28 Report not rec'dNo:v.28 Recommended Sept. 29 Recommended .April 29 Hecow1;00nded April 29

IV
VI IX

x

soj
California ······

28

XI

Oregon ········

Outer shoal, oft" Cape Hatt.eras............ Floating bell beacon. Lieut. Commanding Jenkins ·· Upperjettee, Cape Fear river···· " ······· Light-house ·······.······ do ·········· Maffitt. ·· Mosquito inlet, near Mount Pleasant....... Buoys ··················· do ·········· Rodgers.-. Aransas p1188, near South breakers · · · · · · · . Light-house ·······.······ do...... · · · · Craven ·. Half Moon shoal. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ····· do. · · · · · · · · · · . · ····. do .······· ; · · · do ····· Red Fish bar ....··.·..···.·.···········.···.. do ············.····· do ············ do .···· Clopper's bar, San Jacinto river ················ do .················· do ·· ~··· .·····.do ····· Hmnboldt harbor, North spit .·················· do ············.····· do·········. Alden ···· Fort Point, San Francisco bay.... · · · · · · · · . ····· do... · · · · · · · · · Assistant Cutts ············· Alcattru:, or Bird isllind ························ do .··········.···· do .···· do ··············. Poiut Conception ·······················.····· do...... ·· · · ·· Sub-Assistant Harrison ······ Point Pinos ·····.······················.····· do .··········.·····. do ········ do ·········· UmpqUA..... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . ····. do.. · · · · · · · · · · Lieut. Oommanding Alden ··· Umpqua...... · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Fog-signal ·········.······ do ············ do ······· Cape Hancock, or Disappointment · · · · · · · · Light-house and fog· Lieutenant Bartlett and Sub. signal. Assistant Harrison. Cape Flattery. · · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . ··. do ······· : do.. · · Lieut. Commanding McArthur New Dungeness ····························· do ········ do ·········· do ············ do ......

S. Doc. 3.
APPENDIX No. 16 Letter of the S~perintendent to the chicJS of ltydrograpltic parties in, the coast survey, enclosing a communication from tlie secretary of tlte .Liglit-ltouse Board, asking for S1tg(5e.,tions for the improvements and eJ.:tension of t/,e present liglit-Jwwie estaulisliment, and extracts from their replies.
COAST SURVEY STATION,

Near Portland, 'Maine, July 30, 18151. Sm: I have to call your attention to the enclosed communication from the secretary of the Light-ho1.1se Board, and to ask such information in·relation to th~ subjects embraced in it. as your especial experience on the coast survey, or general experience as a seaman, may enable you to furnish. I would suggest that specific answers be framed, when the subjects come :within the range of you~ experience, to the questions addressed, adding such remarks as the introductory part of the letter seems to contemplate. Please address your reply, as a report, to me at Portland, Maine. Yours respectfully, A. D. BACHE, Superinten<lent, tJ'c. To CHIEFS OF HYDROGRAPHIC PAUTIES in Coast Survey. . Extracts from letter of Lieutenant Commanding C.H. 1'icBlair, United States navy, assistant in coast survey, in reply to above letter <f tlw Superintendent, in relation to liglits, beacons, and buoys needed on tlte coast of Massacltusetts-Sectwn I . . U. S. SuRVEYING STEAMER BrnB, New Bedford, August 28, 1851. Sm: I have received your letter of the 30th ultimo, directing my attention to the enclosed communication from the Secretary qt' the Light-house Board, on subjects belonging to improvements in the navi· · · · · gation of our coast. "Additional lights, buoys, beacons, &c., that may be required to render navigation safe and easy." The following objects seem to me worthy of the consideration of the Light-house Board: a. The expediency o\ substituting a light-ho.use on the ledge call~d "Sow and ~igs," standing ne~r the e~t~a?ce mto Buzz?.rd's bu.y, for the present h$'ht-boat moored I~ that v1cm1ty, and the hgh.t-ho~se ~n the western side of Cuttyhunk island. The ledge in quest1011 1s s111d to be capable of affordin~ a solid foundation of rock for such a struc~ure, and a light of the h1.,-hes~ ran()'e and power at this point would be . invaluable to vessels passmg mto Buzzard's bay, the Vineyard sound, or bound westward into Long Island sound. c. Placing a floating beacon, -with a fog-bell attached, on Davis' new South shoal. 'fhis shoal lies near the most frequented parts of the ocean. and has occasioned some very disastrous wrecks. It has as little as eight feet water upon it-is swept by very strong tides, and, during the summer

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

S. Doc. 3.
months, almost constantly hidden by fogs. ·It was desi~ned at one time to erect a beacon upon it, but the great difficulties or the undertaking, arising from the character of the climate and the distance of the nearest port, seem to be regarded as insuperable. It is, however, indispensable to the safety of passing ves.sels that it should be marked in as distinct a manner as circumstances will admit. d. A buoy-boat (hereafter to be described) on the Qrei:tt Rip, one of the most extensive of the Nantucket shoals. · A suitable place for this mark would be in· the slue or passage near the south end. I would here indicate the shoal itself, the passage in which it was moored, and that on either side of the Rip. e. A buoy-boat on the small shoal lying to the eastward of the 1101thern end of the Bass Rip, (Nantucket shoals,) to mark the shoal itself and indicate the passage generally between the Bass and Great Rip. f. A spar-buoy (hereafter to be described) on the sand-spit prqjecting from Fox's point, (Nashawena island,) at the southern entrance into Quicl.:'s Hole. This channel, connecting the Vineyard sound with Buzzard's bay, is constantly used, and the want of a mark showing the spit has occasioned frequent wrecks. g. A light-boat near Brenton's reef, at the mouth of Newport harbor, already recommended in a special report to you. h. Three small harbor-lights, to facilitate the entrance into Holmes' Hole harbor, already particularly described in my report to you of the · 16th ultimo. i. Certain spindles, buoys, and beacons, marking the approaches near Dorchester and Boston, already enumerated and described in my reports to you, dated March 1st. , j. ·A wooden beacon, painted black, on Long island, (Boston harbor,) placed so as to range with the northeast end of Spectacle island, for the safe navigation of the main ship channel. For particulars respecting this mark, I beg to refer you to Lieutenant Charles 'H. Davis' report to you on the subject, of December 24, 1847. le. A similar beacon on the southeast part of Long island, (Boston harbor,) to range with "Nix's Mate," in order to facilitate the passage through the Broad Sound south channel. In the Coast Survey sailing. directions, the range that has been given to answer the same end, is "~ix's.Ma!e on Blue ~ill;" ?ut owing to the distance ofthe_latter oqject~ this gmde 1s only available m clear weather. The subst1tuton of the beacon on Long island for Blue Hill, is recommended at the instance of Lieutenant Davis. · A bu!Jy-boat on the southwest end of Billingsgate shoal, (Massachusetts bay,) and two spar-buoys on the southern edae of the shonJ, planted at regular intervals between the boat and Billingsgate island. Three guides are necessary in the approach to the anchorage under Billingsgate shoal. m. A spar-buoy on or neur a small rock lying to the southward of Wellfleet harbor, and called, on the hydrographicul sheet, "Bibb Hock."

z.

·

·

·

Respectfully,

·

·

·

·

·

C. H. McBLAIR, Lieutenant Commanding, and Assutant Coa1t Survey.

S~

Doc. 3.

Extracts from letter of Lieutenant Commanding S. Swartwout, United States navy, assistant in coast survey, in reply to foregoing letter of the Superintendent, in relation to li0hts, beacons, and buoys needed on tlte coast of Massachusetts-Section 1. · September 4, 1851. Srn: Your circular letter, dated July 30th, enclosing a communication from the secretary of the Light-house Board, reached me in due course· of mail. · · · · . · · · "Additional lights, buoys, beacons, &c., that may be required to render navigation safe and easy." I am only prepared to answer this 'question so far as it relates to this particular section of our coast. · · · · ·

u. s. SURVEYING BRIG w ASHING TON_
OJ! Nantucket Bar,

A floating beacon, with a fog-bell attached, on Davis' South shoal. A buoy-boat (to be hereafter described) on the Great Rip, one of the most extensive and· dangerous of the Nantucket shoals. . A bnoy-boat on the small shoal lying to the cast of the northern end of the Bass Ilip, (Nantucket shoals,) to murk the shoal itself, arid indicate the passage between the Bass and Great Rip. . A spar-buoy on the sand-spit pr~jecting.from Fox's Point, (Nashawena island,) at the southern entrance mto Qmck's Hole. Three small harbor or bug-lights, to facilitate th~ entrance into Holmes' Hole. The expediency and necessity of these additional aids for the protection of our commerce in this qua.iter, appear to me .to be very obvious ; and the many disasters and shipwrecks which occur annually from the want of them, I flatter myself will plead strongly in favor of their immediate adoption by our govcmmcnt. I have merely considered it necessary to allude to these additional aids to render navigation safe and easy, as Lieutenant Commanding C. H. McBlnir has already very particqlarly recommended them to your. noticeurging thr.ir useful effects by very co$ent m·guments, to which I can ad<l nothing; but, concurring fully with him in his views, it will be necessary for mt'1 to refer you to his reports in relation to these matters,· as an answer to this question, so for as my knowledge extends from · · · · · · actual observation. · Very respectfully, your obedient servant, S. SWARTWOUT, Lieutenant Commanding.
Extracts from letter of Lieutenant Comman,Zing J. N. Maffitt, U. S. navy, assistant in coast survey, in reJ1iy to above letter of tlte Superintendent, in relation to ligl1ts, beacons, and buoys needed on tltc coast of North and Soutlt Carolina-Sections IV and V.

·

·

·

·

··

·

·

·

·

U. S. ScHooNER GALLATIN, A?1g11st 10, 1861. Sm: I have received your "circular" of the .20th ultimo, enclosing a copy of a letter from the secretary of the Light-house Board.

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

466

S. Doc. 3.

I propose three sets of bug-lights for Beaufort, N. C.-first, a single light, due north of the present channel buoy; second, a range light, for crossing the bar, or for the first course in; third, a range light on "Lower Bank," for the second course to anchorage. Two additional buoys are also required to mark out the channel. A bug-light is required for the upper jettee of the Cape Fear river. There should be three spar-buoys m Charleston harbor, one at each end of the "Middle Ground," the other at "White Point," to define .the ·end of that spit for the benefit of vessels bound up the Ashley. A .couple of beacons, for a range, should be erected near "Fort Johnson," as a guide for vessels to clear "Sumter Flats" and the end of the "Middle" when bound in and out of the South city channel. To render South Edisto serviceable as a harbor of refuge, a secondorder light sho.uld be placed on Seabrook Point, and three buoys in the channel-way. Charleston light should be a" fixed light," with improved reflectors. No light should reYolve-that is, one of a range for entering a narrow channel, as the lu>ss of it, even for a few seconds, might be attended with danger.· · I have frequently experienced the truth of this. The beacon-light connected with the main light should be increased in brilliancy and shifted further south, to render the range complete for crossing in the best water. A railway for tltis beacon is required, as the bar is materially' influenced by northeast storms, and the range consequently changing to southward. The "Overall beacons" of Charleston harbor are useless, leading a vessel into six feet at low water. I propose that they be shifted to "Fort Sumte.r," as a range for the "Swash channel," one-eighth of a mile south of the "North," and with the same depth of water. 'l'his would enable coasting vessels and steamers that now use the "North channel" to enter the harbor at night by the " Swash." · A buoy is required on the southwest end of the Rp.ttlesnake shoal. The hghts at Hatteras and Roman are very poor; both should be overhauled and furnished with improved reflectors. . Bell-boats would be of infinite service at the extreme point of Cape . Lookout and the Frying Pan shoal. The light-boat at Martin's Industry, South Carolina, should be furnished with two good lights, one forward and the other aft, of different elevations,. that the boat may not be confounded with St. Helena lightboat. As the light-boat on "Martin's Industry" is old and unfit for its exposed and dangerous position, I propose that a new light-boat of great capacity, with an additional light, be placed on that shoal, and the present boat be moored off' "Hilton Head," Georgia, to mark the point of "Grenadier shoal," which lies due north from "Tybee light." It is a dangerous spot, and a light-boat has repeatedly been called for by the Charleston µ,nd Savannah Steamboat Company.

I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

JOHN N. MAFFITT,

Lieut. Commanding, and Assistant U. S. Coast Survey.

S. Doc. S.
Extracts from letter of Lieutenant Commanding John Ro<lgers, United States navy, assistant in coast survey, in reply to foregoing letter of tlw Superintendent, in relation to lights, beacons, and buoys needed. on the coast of Florida-Section VI. ·
UNITED ST.ATES Co.AST SunvEY OFFICE,

Was!tington; August ·26, 1861.

Sm: In reply to your letter of July 30, enclosinrr a circular from the Light-house Board, making inquiries in regard to die present condition of the lights and other aids to navigation which have come under my observation, I have the honor to say: "" "" Additional lights are required on the Florida reef. The difficulties of navigation alon~ this reef, arising from the curved shape of the channel, requiring continual change of course; the strength and irregularity of the current; the coral reefs which fringe either shore, and tl1e lowness of the land, added to the vast amount of passing commerce, and the number and value of the wrecks, call for o. full illumination. I think four more light-houses, and the shifting of a light-boat, would be sufficient. I would place them thus: one about Alligator reef, off Indian key; one about Collins' Patches, off Key Vacas; one on Looe key; one half way between Cape Florida and Carysfort reef. These should all be first-class refracting lights, or possibly, with the latest im,Provements, second class. The light-boat now on Carysfort reef might have n proper lantern fitted to her, and be placed on the Rebecca shoals, between the Tortugo.s and Marquesas keys. The passage between the Tortugas and Marquesas keys is so much frequented by vessels bourid into tho Gulf of.Mexico, as to call for a li~ht-boat to point out the shoals in it. With these lights, in addition to those now erected, or in progress, vessels could scarcely get on shore upon our side of the Florida channel without having been warned by a light. With the increased safety there seem incidental advanfacres. Our shore being better lighted than the opposite one, vessels will keep in ~mr ?Wn waters in :passing through t~e Florida channel. The ~!·eeks inevitable to extensive commerce will pay salvage to our citizens, rather than to foreigners; and foreign goods thus introduced, pay ~uties. to our government. The wrecks brought into Key West a.mount annually to about @1,200,000, and those on the Bahama Bunks to twice as much. It is a point with vessels coasting along the southern States to keep ns fur as practicable within the influence of the Gulf Stream, for time is of so much importance to them that they are willing to risk something to save time. Coasting steamers run from Cape Canaveral shoal to Jupiter inlet, where the trend of the land alters. A light-house would be useful as a point to run for, and to indicate when the cho.nge of course had become necessary. Such a light-house may perhaps be lllade to guard a shoal which lies between Jupiter inlet and Indian river, on which the United States mail steamer Georgia touched. Captain Coste, United States revenue marine, kuows that such a shoal

. . .

. . .

.

458

S. Doc.. 3.

exists. Captain Willey, a ship-owner and master, who has traded for many years along our southern coast, has furnished me with the following information : "Nine miles from land, ten miles E. by S. a- s. from Indian river, lies a shoal about one mile. long and two cablelengths wide. It has five fathoms water on the north end, and fifteen feet on the south end; ten fathoms inside of it." "SE. ~ S. from Indian river, and five miles from land, is another shoal with fifteen feet water on it." "With Gilbert's bar bearing E . .ZN., distant four miles, is another shoal with five fathoms on it." "A rock, with six or seven feet water on it, lies half a mile ESE· from the south side of Jupiter jnlet: five fathoms close alongside of it.'' The light-house can only be properly placed after an examination has been made. · . . A light-house would be useful about Hillsoorough inlet, or where it shall be found that the first spur of the Florida reef starts from the main land. In the distance of one hundred and seventy miles between Cape Canaveral and Cape Florida there is now no light. The two I pre: pose should both, I think, be of the first class refracting .lights, unless it should be found that the recent improvement in the second class make them nearly equal to the first. . · "Improvements, if any, which farticular lights may require, to rend~r them equal to all· the wants o commerce and navigation in their respective localities." . Over-estimate of distance, in consequence of dimness of the Tortugas light, is sometimes given as a cause of wreck. Its situation is one of the most important on our whole coast-nearly all the commerce of the Gulf of Mexico passes within sight of it. If additional force be needed to the requirement of a first-class light, it may be found in the militarY position of the Tortugas. To develop.the full usefulness to commerce and the navy, of the extensive fortific tion now in progress there, as powerful a light as possible seems necessary. Cape Florida has a good ordinary reflector light. Its position seelll5 to ptnnt out as proper a first-class refracting one. I hope it will not be considered foreign to the subject of these lights for me to offer the surr gestion, that the Florida channel is the natural outlet of the Mississippi; that the lights along the Florida reef are those in which the weste~n planters of the United St.ates are particularly interested; and that ill lessening the danger of getting their produce to market, its price to theOl will be enhanced. Cape Hatteras, Cape Lookout, and Cape Fear, seem all positions for first-class lights. ' The light-house on Cape Fear is, according to Blunt's Coast Pilo~1 one hundred and ten feet above the level of the sea. Its range of visibility to an eye eleven feet above the sea, is, by calculation, 12.76 n!1utical miles. The Frying-pan shoals, off this cape, extend twenty mileS from land. An inspection of the chart shows that these shoals sho~l~ be illuminated. It does not seem practicable to ~ive a tower on Srmt island the height necessa.zy to be seen so far. Lzght-boats are. placed

S.' Doc. 3.

459

in situations as exposed: it is possible that nn examination might discover a sheltered berth for one. In such situations it may be sound discretion to build screw-pile or other beacons, to be left some years to test their stability; when, if they stand the test satisfactorily, the light may be placed on the beacon and the boat removed. The light at Cape Canaveral is not sufficient. The tower was bu.ilt \vhen it was believed that the shoals extended only three or four miles from .the cape. . Subsequent exainination has discovered a shoal, with eight feet water on it, at the distance of eleven nautical miles.

. . .

Very respectfully, your obedient servant, JOHN RODGERS, Lieutenant U. S. N., and Assistant Coast" Sun.·ey.

-

. . . . .

APPENDIX No. 17.
7'able

of light-h01J~es, beacons, buoys,
Stat('.
Maine ··········
No. l 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

~-t:., recommended _by chiefs of hydrographic parties

of coast survey, for which no aipr<>pria. ·
R.po"of mporl-..'n<
Reoomm'dJuly28, 1851 Recomm'dJuly28,1851 Recomm'dJuly28,1851 Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Reeomm'dFeb.27, 1851 Recomm'dFeb.27, 1851 Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Re.commended. Recommended.

tw11s have been made.
Section. I

SpooW

looalitfu·.

Obj"'-TM"""'·/

By ..... onminod.

Massachusetts ··

9
10
11

II
IV

12 New York ······ 13 North Carolina.. 14

v

15

South Carolina.. .16 17 18 19 20 Florida ········ 21
2"i 23

VI

Thomas' a reef, near Thom's ledge......... Buoy ·············· 1Lieut. Commanding Woodhull. ·· Light-houseonMouhegan island .·········· Fog-whistle ········.··· do ················ do ····· Light-house on Petit Menan island ····.······· do ·················· do ················ do ····· "Sow aud Pi,,"11" ledge, entrance to Buzzard's bay ····.·············.··············· Light-house ········..··· do .············ McBlair ··. Dam's new south shoal, Nantucket ········ Floating beacon ···· do ················ do: ···· Great rip,Nantucket ····················· Buoy-boat ········· ., ···· do ················ d(\ ····· Sand shoal near north end of Bass rip .·····.··· do ·················· do ················ do · · · ·· Sand spit at south entrance into Quicks' hole . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . Spar-buoy · · · · · · · · · · . ··· do ················ do ····· Long island, Boston harbor . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Wooden beacons · · · · · ··· do .·········· ' ···· lo .·..· Billingsgate shoal .····· Massaehusett's bay. Buoy-boat ·········· -~-·do .··············· do ····· South end of Billingsgate shoal. ··· do.. · · · · Spar-buoys. · · · · · ··. '···· do .··············· do ····· Bibb rock, near Wellfleet harbor .·····". ···.··· do ······.··········· do .··············· do ····· Gedney's and Swash channel, entrance to . . New York harbor.... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Range-lights · · · · · · · · Assistant J. B. Glnck ·········· Beaufort harbor..·············.·· : ··.······· do .············ Lieut.Commanding Maffitt ······ Beaufort harbor .············ ····"· ······ Buoys ·················· do, ............ do ········ Middle Ground and White point, Charleston harbor........... . · · · ·· ·· · ·· · · ·· · ·· · · Spar-buoys ············· do .············ do ········ Near Fort Johnson, Charleston harbor .···· Beacons .··············· do .· ~ ···· : ····· do ········ Seabrook point, North Edisto harbor ······· Light-house .········.··· do ············· do ········ Channel way to .··· do .······· do......... Buoys .················· do ········.·.·. do ········ Southwest end, Rattlesnake shoal .···.········· do .············.···· do ············· do ······.· Rebeeea shoal, between Marquesas and Tortngas ····· - · - - · - ··· - ············ - ···. Beacon ············ Assistant F. H. Gerdes .········ Reef near Sea-horse key ··.·..·····.····· Buoy. · · · · · · · · . · · · · · · . · do .······.·. do · · · · · · · ... · · , Alligator reef, off Indian key ·············· Light-house ········· 1 Lieut·. Commanding Rodgers....

·i····

. 24

·vm
lX

25 26 27 28 Alabama · · · · · · · 29 30 Mlssiesippi. ···· 31 Texas.......... 32 33
34 CalifOrnia · · · · · · 35 36

x

Collin's patches, olf Key Vaeas ··········· Light-house ········· Lieut. Commanding Rodgers ···· Half way between Cape Florida and Carys. · · fort reef·································· do ·················· do ···············. do .···· Near Jupiter inlet ··························· do ·················· do ················ do..... Near Hillsborough inlet ·················.···· do·:···· ············ do ················ do ····· Looe key ······························.···. do ·············.···· do ·····.·········· do · ··· · Entraneeto Mobile bay ···· :. ············· Se;en buoys ·······.···· do ············ Patterson ··. Entrance to Mobile bay ·················· FiTe beacons ············ do ················ do ····· Cat and Ship Islandharbon ·············· N"me buoys ··········· :. do ················ do ····· Aransas pass ··················· ~ ······· _. Light-boat ·····. ···· ···· do ············ Cra;en ···· Channel of Aransas p888·················· Buoys ·················· do ················ do ····· Off Do]lar point ····.··..··············.··.. do ··················· do ················ do ····· Rocks in harbor of San Francisco. · · · · · · · . · ·. do. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · · do ············ Alden · · · · · · Humboldt harbor, near North spit......... Beacon ················ do ···············. do ·····

Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Recommended. Reeomm'dAug:20,1849 Recomm'dAug.20,1849 Recomm'dAng.20,1849 Recomm'dJuly17,1851 Recomm'd Julyl7,1851 Recomm'd July17,1851 Recommended July 25 Recommended.

"The beaeOns and buoys recommended by Lieut.enant Commanding Patterson to be placed in this section (VIII) were noticed in the Anilual Reports of 1849 and 1850·. As they have DOt yet been acted on, they are again presented in this Report, (Appendix Nos. 35 and 36.}

462

S. Doc. 3.
APPENDIX No. 18.,

Letter of Scars C. Walker, Esq., assistant in tlw United States coast S'Urvey, to the Superintendent, communicating a.n arrangement with the president of tlw .Mainfl Telegraph Company, to determine the d~tference i1i longitude of Cambridge and Ilalijax. CAMBRIDGE, MAss., September 23, 1851. DEAR Sm: I enclose you a copy of the letter of H. O. Alden, esq., president of the Main Telegraph Company, to James Eddy, esq., the superintendent of the company. I would suggest that it should be noticed in your annual report to the Secretary of the Treasury. You will see that I have negotiated for the Coast Survey to have the free 'use of the line from Cambridge to Calais after 9 p. m., we paying the operators for their time. Fortunately, the superintendent (Mr. Eddy) was here to-day, in Boston, and I had a personal interview with the president, Mr. Alden, Mr. Eddy, superintendent, and Mr. Saddler, president of the Boston and Portland line. I have also conferred with . Mr. J. C. Rowe, chief operator of the Vermont Chemical line, that goes to Cambridge. Mr. Eddy, Mr. Saddler, and Mr. Rowe, have a perfoct understarnJing with each other. The line works now every night from Portland to Halifax. It will only require Mr. Saddler's battery. Add the distance· from Cambridge to Portland. Mr. Bond will not need to have any battery except to work the local circuit-say of two cups. These officers have no doubt of working any good mght from Cam.bridge to Halifax. Mr. Eddy says there will be no need of sending ari officer to Calais-he can do all through an operator. You sec that so far as our post is concerned, everything is well arranged.

·

·

·

Yours truly,

·

·

·

·

·

·

SEARS C. WALKER. Prof. A. D. BACHE, LL. D., tiuverihtendent U. S. Coast Survey.

BosToN, September 20, 1851. DEAR Srn: Allow me to introduce to your acquaintance S. C. Walker, escb who is an officer of the United States coast survey, and visits Bangor for scientific purposes. Mr. Walker wishes the use of our telegraph line from Portland to Calais, in connexion with the lines from Boston to Halifax, to enable him to make and communicate the results of astronomical observations, &c., &c. ; all of which he will better explain to you. There being no specific appropriation for such purposes, Mr. Walker, in behalf' of science, asks the gratuitous use of our wires at night, and after business hours are closed; he paying such of our operators as a.re required to be employed by him, a l'easonable compensation for their night service. ·

S. Doc. 3.

463

For the benefit of sciences this is, perhaps, one of those contributions which our company ou$ht not to w1t~hold ; he!lce I h~ve encou~aged Mr. Walker, that we Wlll not be bchmd our neighbors 111.accordmg to ,him the privileges he asks. I have therefore referred lnm to you as fully authorized to act in the premises; and whatever you may do wlli receive my appl·obation. Very truly, yours, , · H. 0. ALDEN,
. President Maine Telegra1ih Com11any.
J.AMES

EDDY, Esq., Bangor, :Jfc.,

Superintendent },fainc Telegraph Company.

APPENDIX No. 19.
Letter ef tlte Superintendent of tlte Coast Survey to tlte Secretary of the Treasury, communicating tlw result of an examination by Lieutena?lt Commanding M. Woodhitll, United States navy, into the necc.~sity forcerta,in aids to navigation on tlw coast of Maine, in accordance witlt act qf Congress, and instruction$ of tlw Treusury De1>artmcnt.
Co.AST SurtVEY STA'l'ION,

Mount Pleasant, July 28, 1851.

Sm: I have the honor to report that the examination into the necessity of a light-house at Narraguagus bay, (between Passamaquoddy bay and the Penobscot river, Maine,) and of buoys at the mouth of the Kennebec river, Maine, required by the act of March 3d, 1851, and the instructions of the department, has been made, and to pre.sent the following as the result: The localities have been carefully examined by Lieutenant Commanding Maxwell Woodhull, who has presented a:U the information necessary to a correct conclusion in regard to the matters. 1. 1 agree with him in recommending a light-house on the southeastern point of Pond island, the light to be elevated not lc,ss than eighty foet above the line of high water, n.nd to show a revolving light. From Petit Menan island light, (on the out.er scaeoust,) Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull states: " The point of Pond island can be distinctly seen, the range beurin? NNE., and gives the course to· Pond island. After.passing this pomt, a course due north takes the navigator directly to the mouth of the Narra.'!uagus river, with the light always in sight if in deep water, but shut 111 if he encroaches too much on the ledges and middle ground, on either side of it." 'l'he light should be erected near the southeastern extremity of the point. It should be, as recommended by Lieutenant Commanding Wood.hull, of the class of smaller seacoast lights, (third order of lens lights,) elevated sufficiently to show three miles to the seaward of Petit Menan island light, and revolving, to distinguish it from the sea-coast lights on · either side of it. The intervals between the full brilliancy of the light and its disappearance should not be greater than a minute. Lieutenant Comml1-nding Woodhull gives the following facts as

464 .

S. Doc.

a~

bearing upon the usefulness of the light at Pond island, considered as a local light, to which class it essentially belongs: , . · "Besides the Narraguagus river, there are two others emptying into Narraguagus bay-Mill river, with the town of Huntingdon at its mouth, and EastMarshriv~r. 'rhe trade of the towns of Cherryfield and Millbridge, on the Narraguagus river, is very large; last year they had 400 coasters and other vessels visit them, and receive cargoes. Their trade yearly amounts to 30,000,000 feet of sawed timber, with about 16,000,000 of manufactured lathes. For Huntingdon and " East Marsh," I have been informed, their trade is about half that amount. On these rivers, besides the lumber trade, a great number of vessel1:1 of various classes are built yearly." 2. I concur also with Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull in recommending that the buoys for White's and Thom's ledges, and Pond Island reef, at the mouth of the Kennebec, appropriated for in the act of March 3d, 1851, be immediately placed. 3. Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull further recommends a fogwhistle to be placed at the light-house at Petit Menan island, (off Narraguagus bay,) and at Monhegan island, (off Penobscot bay,) and remarks upon the inefficiency of the fog-bell at the latter place. Also a buoy on r:r:homas' reef~ near Thom's ledge, which he considers as imperfect as the other buoys reported upon, and which he states can, with the others, be placed for the sum appropriated for the three men· tioned in the act. "'rhe trade of the different rivers that empty into Penobscot bay is conjointly estimated at about 3,000. vessels yearly, and an average of from three to four.steamers daily, eight months of the year. Monhegan light is the entrance light to this bay." In these recommendations I concur. Lieutenant Commanding Woodhull states, that in the opinion of many intelligent navigators on this coast, the lights on "Goose island," (Penobscot bay,) and on Bear island, (Mount Desert,) should be discontin:u~d, as not merely useless, but dangerous to navigation; in which op1mon he concurs. · Very respectfully yours, A. D. BACHE, ~uperintendent United States Coast Survey. Hon. W. L. HoDGE, Secretary of the Treasury. APPENDIX No 20.
Le~ter

of the Superi~tenf!ent q( the. Coast Survey to tlte SecretanJ of the Treasury, commu'!1'u:ating, with liis aIProval, the recommendation of Lieutenant Commanding M. Woodhull, United States navy, assutant in tlt8 coast survey, to place a light-boat on Shovelful sltoals.
OSSIPEE ST.ATION, NEAR

ALFRED, MAINE, · September 1, 1861. Sra: In compliance with the provisions of the act of March 3, 1861, and the instructions of the department, I have the honor to report that

the examination of the necessity for .a light-boat at " Shovelful shoals," near Chatham, Massachusetts, has been made, and to recommend that a vessel of suitable size, and showing au effective.light, should be placed on the southeast extremity of the shoal. l enclose herewith the report of Lieut. Commanding Maxwell Woodhull, United Stutes navy; assistant coast survey, by whom this examination has been made, under my direction, and the sketch which accompanied it, illustrating the points · referred to in the report. Very respectfully yours, ·

A. D. BACHE,
Super1'.ntendlnt U. S. Coast Survey.

Hon.

THOMAS

ConwIN, Secretary of tlic 1.'rea$UT'IJ·

UNITED STATES ScnooNER MADISON,

Woods' Hole, A?tgttst 24, 1851. Srn: Agreeably to your order, I hnve examined all· the particulars concerning the proposed light-boat on "Shovclfol shoals," and um convinced, from my own observation and tho opinions of the several pilots and masters of vessels \Vith whom I have conferred on the subject, that a light-boat has 'long been needed on this shoal, and I therefore recommend 'its being placed there as soon as possible. It should be placed on the southeast .extremity of the shoal, that being the point'w here all the courses meet, whether. coming from the nortltward, or from the north, middle, or southern channels of Vineyard sound. It would be a guide to clear the "Handkerchief~" the "Stone Horse," and "Pollock llip;" and make the passage of "Butler's Hole" always serviceable, while it is now only usefol iu day-light. It would shorten the run to vessels ·making a harbor in the "Powder Hole" nineteen miles. If the ·weather is threatening and foggy, vessels now making the anchorage under·the cape have to go round the "Pollock Rip" and the ·11 Great Hound Shoal," then·run to the westward of the "Hnndkerchief;" thereby lengthening the distance, and consequently increasing the danger; when; if the light-boat were on the "Shovelful," the passage between·the shoals would be comparatively sufo navigation. I would recommend, in conjunction with this subject, as a new boat is to be built, and the upproptmtion is abundantly suflicient for the purpose, that it be of larger dimensions, of an improved construction, with a more powerful' light, when ready, to be placed on "Pollock Hip," nntl the one now stationed there be transferred to the "Shovdful," where it would answer every purpose and be more usefol than where it·now is. The boat on "Pollock Rip" is too small for the purpose; it is a general complaint that during a blow the li.s-ht cannot be hoisted sufficiently above the deck to be a certain gmde, and in some instances could not beJighted, owing to the nrntion of the vessel throwing the oil from the lamps. I think a light-boat should be of sufficient capacity to catry the light at !ill times at the usual elevation, or it becomes oflittle

or no service. 30

. I send you a sk!!Jtch of the locality, with the differen·t shoals, placed agreeably to their relative positions, with the several cour8es laid down,
showing where they converge, which will express the necessities of the case better than I can otherwise describe them. ·Very respectfully, MAXWELL WOODIIUL L,
Lieut. Commanding U. 8. N., Assistant Coast Sur'lJC1j.

Prof. A. D.

BACHE,

.

Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey, Washingtan.

APPENDIX No. 21.
Letter ef the Superintendent ef the Coast Survey to tlw Secretary of tlte 1'reasury, communicating a report ef Lieutenant Commanding O. ][, McBlair, United States na:vy, assistant in the coast survey, on tlte ercc· tion ef " bug" or ltaruor lig!tts at Holmes' Hole, Martha' a Vineyard.
CoAsT SuuvEY STATION,

Near Portland, Maine, July 19, 1851.

Sm: I have the honor to report that the examination into the neces· sity for the erection of a light-house at Holmes' Hole, Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, has been made, as required by the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, and the instructions of the department. I communicate herewith the detailed report of Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. McBlair, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, the officer by whom the examination was made under my direction: I would further respectfully report, that, instead of tbe light-house at Hol~es' Hole, for which an appropriation has been made, three small beacon-lights, technically known at that port af:l "bug lights," should be placed in the position shown on the accompanyin~ Coast Survey chart, recommended by Lieutenant Commanding McBlair. For reasons stated in his report, these lights should be of the smallest class of beacon-lights used in harbors, on low wooden structures, the height being regulated by the elevation of the ground and the relation to suiTOunding objects. I would recommend thatthe light nearest the water should be red, and that all should he so screened as not to show, except. on a moderately large sector, east side of the rn:nge line, which they are expected to give. 'l'bree "bug lights," or beacons, can probably be put up within the appropriation made by the act of Congress; and it is a question for the depa1tment to decide, whether its authority extends to their immediate erection, or whether the subject must be referred to Congress, under the act of March 3d, 1851. · Vcry respectfully yours, · A. D. BACHE,
Supt:rinterulent United States CoaBt Survey.
Hon. W. L HonoE, Ai:ting SecretariJ

ef tlte

Treaswry;.

s. Doe.
U. S.

s~

SunVEYING STEAMER

Brnn,

Nantucket Bar, July 16, 1851. · Sm.~ In obedience· to your instructions, I have ~arefuUy examined
Holmes' Hole harbor, for the purpose of ascertaining .what. additional lights are necessary, and the most suitable locations for them. I would respectfully recommend the establishment of three harbor ligh'tS of t:'h.c smallest class, to be placed on the sites indicated by the nocompan.ying sketch. The houses might be frame structu1'es, similar t1' those erected for the small lights called bug li&hts of this port. Buildings of this description wouM be most economical, and answer every purpose. They would be placed in such immediate vicinity to t}Qe village, that a dwelling fur the keeper may not be neocssary. It is not important that the lights themselves should be visible over fuitiir miles. The greatest danger encountered in entering this harbor proceeds from the rocks and shoals lying near Low Point. The skirt of wood occupying the higher ground, at some distance from the beach, is sometimes mistaken at night for the shore line, leading vessels to double Low Poi1it too cfosely to dear the shoal or rocks. Frequent disasters arise from this circumstance. The lights placed as proposed, furnish two well-defined rru...gcs, ~he object of one of whi.ch is to guard against this danger, while the .other s!wws the mid-channel 1m.d best water along the ()ntire harbor. Holt11es 1 Hole is used as a port of refuge by vessels navigating the sound, on occasion of head· winds and tides and storms; and the adoption of these or similar improvements would add security to life and property. · If tlw lights suggested are established, it will be necessary to modify the present sailing directions. I have prepared the fullowing, and present them to you in foll at the present time, as the best means of exhibiting the value of the ranges 1·ererred to. Entering this harbor from the westwal'd, east chop well open with west chop light-house, clears you of the middle ground. G1v'e west chop a berth of half a mile, until you hriag on the western range of the harbor lights, when, wit11 the chart fur your guide, bear up for your anchorage in the outer roads. If you want to stand into the mner harbor, bring_ Oll the eastern range of the harbor lights, and fullOW it, Approaching from the eastward, give east chop n berth of half a mile, and bring on the eastern range of the hal'bor Ughts; following which, you may cast anchor either in the outer 01· inner harbor. Ships may anchor in three and a half fathoms, muddy bottom; west ·chop light just open, with woods on Low Point. SrnuU vessels may anchor immediately off the town. You can bent in with safety, the shores being bold and clear. West chop light is fixed; elevated, sixty feet above the level of the sea, and visible sixteen miles. Respectfully, C. H. McBLAIR,

Prof. A. D.

A.ssista,1t
BACHE,

OQast

Survey.

SuperiAue#ldcttt U. S. Coo·t Sttt"OOy, Pordmtd, Maine

s~ Ddc~· 3~

APPENDIX No. 22.
Letter ef the Superintendent of tlte Coast Survey to tke Secretary of tlie Treaeury, recommending certain aids to na'l!igation re9uired by act <!} Congress and instructitms of tlie Treasury Department.
CoAsT SunvEY OFFICE, April 29, ise;i. Sm: I have the hooor to report upon the fo1lowing o~jects referred to this office, .embraced in the act of Congress making appropdations for light-houses, light-boats~ beacons, and buoys, approved March 3,

1&51: No. 4. The eleven buovs in ·the channel to Commercial Point and Neponsett river, in Dorchester, are recommended, accompanied by a speeial report to me from Lieutenant Commanding Charles H. McBlair ~ United States navy, assistant coast survey, a copy of which accom.paW.es this -report, and a sketch showing a survey of the locality, from this office. N.o. 6. A beacon on Fawn bar, near Deer island, is recommended. For .detailed opinions see special report from Lieutenant Cha1·les H. McBlair, United States navy, assistant coust survey; also with a sketch of the ]Qcality. No. 7. The two iron spindles on the northeast ledge of the Graves, and on Harding's ledges, Boston barbor, are recommended. The special report of Lieutenant Charles H. McBlair, and accompanymg :Sketch, may be reforred to for detail. No. 8. 'l'he proposed light-boat off Brenton's reef, Nanagansett bay, is deemed of great importance. A sketch accompanies the S'(>ecial report of Lieutenant Mc Blair, whi~h w~ll show t~e proper position for it. No. 14. The four spar-buoys for Fire Island mlet, Long Island, were recommended by this. office, and are considered of the highest importance t.o the coasting trade of Great South bay. No. '16. The light-house on Bodkin shoal, intended as a substitute for ·the one now on the Bodkin Point, is considered of much importance. ·A' chart of ·the Patapsco river, with the proper position for t!:ie tower marked upon it, accompanies this report. No. 19. The buoy for Middle Ground shoals, Beaufort ha~·bor, North Carolina, was recommended by this office. Its proper position will be seen by reference to the accompanying sketch of Beaufort harbor. Nos. 22 and 23. The buoy for Diamond shoal, Cape ·Hatteras, and the floating bell~beacon for the outer shoal, CaJ?e ·Hatteras, were recommended by this office. 'rhe recommendation, accompanied by drawings and estimates; was submitted to the department for its approval. No. 24. The light on the "Upper jettee," Cape Fear river, and the bridge leading to it, were understood, from a communication from the Fifth Audit.ol', to be included among the oujects of apyropriation referred t.o this offi'ce. A personal examination was made of the locality, which produced considerable doubt as to the necessity for the expenditure. Subsequent to the personal examination referred to, the Fifth Audito1· advises me that this is one 9f the objects which be ·does not desire to
1

S~ ·Doc~

3.

469

be exnmined' by this office. It is deemed proper to. say that it would be well to examine into this subject before the work is commenced.. No. 27 ·. 'rhe light-houses authorized for Capes Disappointment.and Flattery, and for New Dungeness, Oregon, have been recommended by this office, and are cQnsidered of the highest importance to the commerce of the northwest coast. The position on Cape Disappointment f?r the light will be marked in the Coast Survey chart of the Columbia nver. The light on New Dungeness should be placed near the cxtr~mity. of the point, about 2t miles from the main land. As this is a very low point, not visible at night, it will require a tower of about eighty feet in height. · The lighl for Cape Flattery should be placed on Tatooche island, a small island almost touching the northwest extremity of Cape Flattery. The light is considered of great importance, as it will enable navigators to enter the straits at night, which they cannot do now! . The four spar-buoys for Fire Island inlet, the buoy for Middle Ground shoal, N91th Carolina, and tbe buoy and hell-beacon for Hatteras shoals, having been recommended by this office, I have to request authority to purchase by contract, under the regulations of the department, and place them in their respective positions.· '\.Ve cnn nlso conveniently place those in the Ne1xmset river, if desired by the department. An abstract of the sul~jects referred to this office, in this connexion, is herewith sent.. The objects referre<l to this office, not reported upon, require personal examinotl.on, which is now being made. So soon us the reports are received, the department shnll be informed of the resul.t. The sketches and specinl reports accompanying this are numbered according to the paragraphs in this letter referring to them. A general nbstra(:t showinf?' ull the objects· for which appropriations have been made, and the disposition of the several subjects at this date, is here~ with submitted. Vcry respoctfully, yours, A. D. BACHE, Sttpcrintc1tdcnt U. S. Coast Survey. Hon. W. L. HonaE, Acting Sec1·etary qf tke TreasunJ.

Rcport8 ef Lieutenant Commanclin.g McBlair, United States na.vy, assitttant in coast survey, to tlte Suz1erintcnde1tt, on certain aids' to navigatio11, in B06to"' ltarhor, 4~. Co.AST SuavEY OF1rrcE 1 Wasltington, April 23, 1851~ Sm: I respectfully submit the following report, p.ccompanied by ~kctc~cs of the localities, on the subject of the improvements for tllt.! navigati01~ of coast, referred to .in your letter of instructions. 'fhe 0~1ects proposed stand m the following order: 1. "Eleven buoys in the channel to Commercial Point and Neponset riv.er, in Dorchester." 2. "A light-house at the head of Holmes' Hole harbor."

470
3. 4. ing's 6.

S: Doe.

a~:

"A beacon on Fawn ba.r, near Deer island, Bostozri harbm.'~ "Two iron spindles on northeast ledge of the Graves and Hardledge, Boston harbor." . "A light-boat off' :Brenton's reef, Narragansett bay." a. "Eleven buoys in the channel to Commercial Point and NepoaseU river, jn Dorchester.', A full report on this subject has been already laid before you in m¥ letters ofMarch l, and February 22, 1861, copies of which I herewitlil · enclose. It is only necessary to add that the buoys recommended have no other than local value. b. ~'A lignt-house at the head of Holmes' Hole bai·bor/~ Further examination, which can be conveniently made during th0 approaching season, will better enable me to report on this point. c. "A beacon on Fawn l>ar, near Deer island, :Boston harbor." d. "Two iron spindles on the northeast ledge of the Graves and Harding's ledge, Boston harbor.u . The northeast ledge· of the Graves and Hardi11ts ledge, as the outposts of the obstructions strewing the approaches to Boston, should be conspicuously marked, and spindles surmounted by coneg of different colors would answer this purpose. Harding'·s ledge especially, now a danger in itself, and but imperfectly marked by a buoy, if distinguished by a spindle, would serve a valuable auxiliary guide in the approaches to the main ship channel. T11e northeast ledge of the Graves, similarly marked, would answer the same end with respect to the neighboriJJg Hypocrite and the :Broad Sonnd channels. In connexion with the· spindle on the northeast Graves ledge, a beacon on Fawn bar would.be serviceable as a good interveDing mark between that ledge and the Deer Island beacon. Vessels using the Broad Sound and Hypocrite channels would thus be guided by a successi0n of distinct ma1·ks, each becoming visible· in its turn before the one pn.ssed is entirely lost. The particular advantage of a beacon on Fawn bar would be the faci~ity it would give to the navigation of the Broad Sound north channel; the buoy now moored on the bar, to further this end, could then be advantageously shiiied to the narrowest part of that channel on the western side. · . e. "A light-boat off Brcnton,s reef, Narragansett bay.'' The establishment of a light-boat here is of great importance. It would mark a dangerous shoal, and, in connexion with the .Beaver Tail light, clearly define the entrance through the eastern chann.el into the harbor of~ewport, Rhode Island. I am of opinion that all the foregoing improvements would conduce largely to convenience and safety in the navigation of the respective waters where it is proposed to introduce them. '!'heir value would be purely of a local kind, and they would have no other connexion with existing marks or lights than what has been pointed out. Respectfully, C. H... McBLAIR,

Professor A. D. BA01u1:.

Assistant Coast Sunty..

S.

Do~.

8.

COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

· Wasltingt01i, Februa1y 22, 1851. DEAR Sm: F110m an examination of the chart showing the approachea to Dorchester, it·would seem necessary for the safe navigation of those waters, which affocts a large and increasing amount of tonnage, that eleven buoys, painted according to regulation, should be planted, viz: six to designate .the channel to Commercial wharf, and the remaining five as guides to Neponset village. 1'hey must be distributed as follows: one on the west side of the channel opposite to Farm School, on Thompson's island, two on Cow Pasture bar, two on Term bnr, and one opposite Commercial w barf. · '!'be Neponset river would require one between Commercial wharf a.nd Piue Neck, three along the curvature the river fonn~ about Pine Neck, and one off the whai-f at Neponset. Respectfully, C. H. McBLAIR, Lieut. Commanding U. S. N., Assistll3J.t Coast Survey. Prof. A. D. BACHE.

S:uperiuundmu Coast Survc!f·

COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

Wasltington, March 1, 18l>l. Sm: Lieut; Com. Charles Du.vis, to whom was rcforred my letter. respecting the buoying of the channel near Dorchester, suggests that the outer buo;Ys spoken of in that communication should be of the usual harbor size, while the inner ones, and especially the river buoys, might be much smaller and less expensive. I am, respectfully,
.
Prof. A. D.

C. H. McBLAIR, Lieut. Oom. U. S. N., AS1istant U. S. Coast Survey.
BACHE,

Superintendent COlUt Survey.

APPENDIX No. 23.

Report of tlte Superintendent of tlte Coast S1wvey to tlw Secl'eta.ry qf the
Treasury, on ra.nges in

New

York !tarbor; wit!t extracts from tlte reSunvEY OFFICE,

port of rMsistant J. B. Gl ck.
CoAsT

November 29, 1851. Sm: An examination made of Flynn's Knoll, New York harbor, with the members of the Light-house Boarcl, induced a doubt in my mind whether the light··house proposed to be erected there was the best aid to navigation which could he suggested; and, indeed, whether it might not alter injunously the present regime of the harbo1·. The

S~ Doc.

a.

inquiries of the Light-house Board were directed to the same points, and their conc~usions will, therefore, also be before the department. · It occurred to me thRt a system of range-beacons could be used for passing Sandy Hook by the main ship channel, and for passin~ through the Swash channel, which would answer all tl1e purposes of the proposed light on Flynn's Knoll, without being attended with any risk of causing new deposites on the bar, and which could be put up and maintained at a very small expense. I have accordin.s-Iy caused minute surveys to be made of the shore near the probable sites of these beacons, and transmit, herewith, the sketches and report returned by assistant J.B. Gliick, of the coast survey, and also a Coast Survey chart of New York bay and harbor, marking these and ot11er sites on which range-lights may be established, to answer the purpose refened to above. I would recommend two range-lights (beacon) to lead from the point G, in Gedney's channel, through the main sl1ip channel, to the range of the beacons recommended in the sailing line H N through the Narrows; the beacons tci be on the line GD or G M in the angle between them, as may be found most expedient, on an examination which should be made just previous to their location. The distance A D is rather small for the range, being less than one-ninth of G A. A beacon near L will furnish also other important ranges. Also, two leading lights (beacon lights) for the Swash clmnnel, nearly on the line S E. Before placing these lights tbe Swash channel should be carefully re-surveyed, which can be done at· a very trifling expense by the Coast Survey, by using existing marks on tlie shore already determined in the survey, as there is an impression among the pilots that it is deepening. The beacons should be placed accordingly. These lights should he so arranged that they will appear nearly in one when heading on the sailing lines They should be distant from each other not less thnn about one mile nnd a half~ or one-sixth of the distance from which "they are first required to give the range. 'They should be carefully screened, so as only to show a light on the range or ranges which they are to indicate; and for distinction from each other, as they arc only required to show some nine miles, the one near the Elm-tree beacon may be a red light, (deep red.) Yours, respectfully,

A. D. BACHE,
Superintendent United States Coast Survey.

Hon.

Tn:oMAS ConwrN,

Ser:retary ef tlte Treasury.
Extracts from a report on ranges in New York "hay, to S-w,perintenilent, J. B. Glilclc, csq., assi.~tant in coast survey.
UNITED STA'J.'ES REVENUE CUTTER TANEY,

oy

Broolclyn, New York, July 13, l 851. DEAR Sm : I J1ave just returned from surveying the two ranges for entering Swash and main channels of New York buy, i11 accordance with your instructions of July 1. ·

s., Doc.

s~

The range for entering Swash channel, of which Elm-tree beacon forms one part, affords unusual facilities, as it strikes over the narrow brows of three elevations of one and a half, (H) one and three-quarters, (lf) and two. miles distance from the beacon; being, respectively, sixty, (60) eig?ty, (80) and one. hund.red nnd sixt~·, (160) foet hi$'h. That.of sixty is bare; that of eighty 1s covered with trees and thick brushwood from twenty to twenty-five feet high; and the one of one hundred and sixty with forest trees from sixty to seventy-five feet high. These three sites are upon the estate of Mr. George Ebbitt, New Dorp; Staten Island. The ran$e for coming throu.s-h main ship channel touches the shore nearly a mile eastward of Pomt Comfort, through a very depressed part of the beach ; the sand-banks on either side (from ten to twelve foet high) sinking nearly to the level of high-water mark. About thr<'e hundred metres back from the bench, the range strikes a swamp thickly covered with trees from fifteen to forty feet high ; from thence it runs mostly through woodlands-occasionally through settlements and clearings. About a mile inland from the beach, tho rnngc crosses the creek and marsh making into the westward of Point Comfort. Upon the whole line surveyed there is no point that reaches un elevation of twenty feet, and, as I am informed, there is none for five miles further back, to the hills near Mid<lletown. From the terminus of my survey, I could sec back nearly another mile, but no higher elevation on that extension could be gained ; I therefore confined the survey to the limits formed by the creek, on the banks of which the hills are slightly the highest. On this- runge both lights could be screened by trees, so as to be invisible to seaward, except on the runge itself: I um much indebted to Captmn lludolph, commanding United States revenue schooner Taney, and his officers, for their kindness in aiding the survey, and extcuding every facility possible for its accomplishment.

.

.

.

..

.

.

.

I send herewith the maps of New York bay, upon which I have marked the two ranges as directed. 'I he front light on Point Comfort runge, for coming through main channel, mi.s-ht be placed at either A or B. 'l'he light would probably be sufficiently screened at A from being seen at sea, by the clump of trees about one hundred metres to tho southeast, or· by the woods on Sandy Hook, until the vessel is on the range itself. At B this purpose would be fully achieved. , 'l'he back light on this range might be properly placed at either C or D. The ground at D is severnffect higher than at C, and therefore preferable. ButJittle c~tting is required to clear this whole rn,nge. On the range for entcnng through Swash channel, where E.lm-tree beacon now stands, will Le the place for the front light. The breakwater should be moved to the west of the beacon instead of to the eastward, as this structure, in its :present position, only serves to undermine the bcocon, for the protect10n of which it was ·built. Complaints are mnde in regard to the color, which is red ; nt n distance of about two miles off shore I found it to be scarcely visible. There are four points on this i·ange where the back light might be
1

.

..

$. Doc.3,..'
located, although C is, in my opinion, the most desirable. site for it, being on an elevation of eighty feet, covered with trees and b\}shes, high enough to screen the light.from either side. The sites A and B are bare, and, respectively, twenty and sixty feet high. That at D is from one hundred and forty to one hundred and sixty feet high. The thick and almost inaccessible forest makes it difficult to give a true delineation of the ground, or an accurate value of its elevation. A black and white flag is fastened to the highest tree on the range, and the tree determined. Trusting that I have executed this work to your satisfaction, I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant, JOHN B. GLUCK,
Assistant in Coast Survey.

Prof. A. D.

BACHE,

LL. D.,

Superintendent United States Coast Survey, Mount Pleasant, Maine.

APPENDIX No. 24.
Letter of th~ Superintendent oftlw Qoast Survey to tlw SecretanJ of tlw Treasury, recommending certain aids to na.vigation on the cortst of New Yori' a.nd New Jersey, reqitired ·by act of Congress and instructions ef the T1·easury Department, and communicating the repor-t of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Wqodltull, U. S. N., upon the same. ·
COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

June 13, 1851. Srn : In compliance with the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, and with the instructions of the department of April 2d, I have ·the honor to report on the buoys, beacontt, fog-bell, and light-house, numbered 9, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, in the tabular statement of light-houses, beacons, and buoys, for which appropriations were made in the act just referred to. A copy of tlie tabular statement is annexed, with the additional remarks now submitted. The details of the recommendations are given in the report of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Woodhull, herewith submitted, and the localities are marked in the Coast Survey charts A, 'B 1 , B 2 , C, D, and E, hereto appended. No. 9. The buoy on Peafield reef, off Black Rock harbor, is recommended; also an additional buoy, for which, however, no appropriation has yet been made. No. 11. The light-house on the north point of Gardiner's island is recommended, showing a red light. For the consideration inducing · this recommendation, I refer to the report of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Woodhull. No. 12. ·The beacon in Sag harbor is recommended. No. 13. The two beacons near Fort Hamilton are recommended. It is understood from the Chief Engineer, General Totten, that there will be no objection made to a temporary structure on the glacis of th~ redJubt of Fort Hamilton, in the locality marked on the chart.

s~ Doc~·

8.

No. 17. A fog-bell for Newark light-house is recommended. No. 18. The four buoys in the Passaic river, and the one on Mill Rock, were found by the officers sent to make examination, to have been already placed, under authority from the Fifth Auditor. b. The beacon recommended to be constructed, and the buoy now occupying its site should be removed to the three-feet sand-knoll south and east of Newark light. c. The beacon at the corner stake, near Elizabeth Point, is recommended. For details relating to its construction, I refer to the report of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Woodhull, herewith submitted. Very respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE,
Su11erintendcnt U. S. Coast Sitrvey.

Hon. THOMAS Conw1N, Secretary of tlte 1'reasury.

Report of Lieutenants Commanding Jenkins and Woodhull, U. S. N., and assistants in coast survey, to the Superintendent, upon the necessity far placing certain aids to navigat'ion, required by act qf Congress and instructions of tlte Treasury -D~pa.rtment.

u. s. SURVEYING SCHOONER MADISON,
Sa.g Harbor, May 14, 1851.. Sm: In compliance with your instructions of the 29th instant, we made a careful !lersonnl examination of the J;laces enumerated, with reference to placmg the proposed aids to navigation, in conformity to the 3d section of the act making appropriations for light-houses, lightboats, beacons, and buoys; approved l\forch 3d, 1851, and submit the . following report: Two buoys should be placed on Pea.field reef, off Black Rock harbor, as marked on the accompanying harbor chart. We recommend that the one authorized by law be placed on the S. (+)point of the shoal. The contiguity of Plumb island and Little Gull island lights to the north point of Gardiner's island rendered the necessity for a light at that place somewhat doubtful; but upon a careful consideration and examination of the subject, we are satisfied it will be a very impo1tant aid to navigation. For coasters bound to Sag Harbor, Green Port, and other places in the vicinity from the eastward, it is very necessary, owing to the great len$'th and little elevation of the :point. To vessels from oversea voya~es it is important to guide them mto a safe and commodious harbor of refoge. The tower should be placed as near the extremity of the north point as may be practicable, with reference to a good foundation, and the light should differ from the two nearest to i.t(Plum b island and Little Gull isl1;md.) A bright red light would probably be the most suitable for the purpose. We recommend that the beacon authorized to be placed in Sag harbor may be erected on the shoalest part of the southwest point of the sands pit. We consider this beacon an important aid to the navigation of Sag

S. Doc. 3.
harbor, arid that it 'should be constructed with sufficient stability to resist the ice when it breaks up in the spring. 'I'he two beacons to be placed near Fort Hamilton are important: they should be placed upon the continuation of the sailing line, as represented on the Coast Survey chart, from near southwest spit up mid channel, to serve as leading marks by night as well as by day. The southern beacon should be placed near the fish-house, and the northe1·n one near the redoubt. It is believed that a proper J?Osition may be found for the northern one on the public land, without mtcrfering with other interests. One keeper could attend to theRe two beacons, provided his dwelling is placed contiguous to them. (Sec Coast Survey chart accompanying this report.) A fog-bell is necessary for the Newark light-house. A buoy on Mill Rock, (Constable's Point,) and four buoys to mark the channel of the Passaic, have been found already placed. The accompanying Coast Survey chart will exhibit the approximate positions of the buoys. The can-buoy on this sketch is a short distance to the eastward of the position for the beacon authorized to be erected, which we consider to be important, and recommend that it be built on three wooden piles, driven at the angles of a triangle, with the proper inclina· tion to form a pyramidical structure when boarded up. We recommend that the buoy now occqpying the position of the beacon may be placed on the three-feet sand-knoll, .to the southward and eastward of the Newark light, when the beacon shall be completed · . The proposed beacon to be placed at the corner stake, near Elizabethtown Point, is an important and very necessary aid to navigation. We recommend that it should be built in the. same manner described for the one at the mouth of the Passaic. The piles for this and the Passaic beacon should be coppered a sufficient distance above and below the water, to prevent the ice from in· juring'them; any solid structure would injure the channels. Very respectfully, yours, THORNTON A. JENKINS, Lieutenant U. S. Navy, Assistant U. S. Coast Sur.vey. M. WOODHULL, Lieut. Com. U. S. Navy, Assistant Coast Survey. Pro£ A. D. BACHE, . ~uperintendent U. S. Coast Survey.

APPENDIX. No. 26.
Report of Sears C. 'fVallcer, assistant in tlte coa.~t survey, communicating the measures of wave-time made from 1849 to 1851. September 30, 1851. DEAR Sm: I beg to submit a statement of the experience of the Coast Survey on the subject of galvanic wave-time, since my last annual report of October 15th, 1850. · The result of our experience was then stated, as follows:
CAMBRIDGE,

47t
1. That the avera$e of all our experiments to that tim·e indicates a velocity of propagation of the inducin~ :waves of 16,400 miles per second in the iron wires of a telegraph line. 2. That the velocity of propagation throu~h the ground appears to be less than two-thirds of the volocity in the iron wires, These conclusions were in accordance with the independent results of the researches of D1·. B. A. Gould and ·1\'Ir. Karl Culman 1 previously read, and since published in the proceedinss of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at their meeting at New Haven, in August, 18130. There have been three independent series of observations for the value of wave-time, made since October last, 1860. The first experiment was repeated on several nights, between Seaton station and Portsmouth, Va. The distance on the iron wires is 268 miles, and the distance through the ground is 180 miles. The clock station excess, in the electrotonic readings, by 'a mean of 221 measures, was +os.024, while the computed excess for the assumed velocity of 16,400 miles per second, in the iron wires, was +os.036. The difference bct~een theory and computation is, theory greater by +os.011. The second expemnent was made from Charleston, S. C., to Augusta, Ga., in tbe winter of 1851. The distance on the iron wire from Columbia (where the Charleston end went to the ground) to Augusta, was 301 miles, and from Augusta to Savannah 146 miles-making the total connexion through the ·iron wire 44 7 miles, and the distance through the ground, from Columbia to Savannah, 136 miles. The clock was at Savannah. The arbitrary signals were given at Charles~ ton. 'fhe observed clock excess was by 59 measures +os.056. The computed wave-time, for the above assumed velocity, was +os.0138, leavmg a difference of +os.002. The clock excess of Augusta above Savannah was, by observation, (forty measures,) +os.019; by theory, +os.019; difforence +o.~.ooo. The third experiment was made at Cincinnati, on the 9th of May lust, on the occasion of the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. The telegraph line was composed of 840 miles of iron wire, without ground connexion. 'l'he distances were as follows: From Cincinnati to Steubenville 296 miles; thence to Cincinnati the same; thence to Louisville 125 miles; thence to Cincinnati. the same. The personal clock signals were given by Mr. Stager, chief operator at Cincinnati. In the first experiment the arbitrary signals were given by the operator at Steubenville, and recorded at Steubenville, and nlso on the two registers at Cincinnati, on opposite branches of the line. These registers I will call, respectively, St1:1ger and Jones; Stager being the register for the clock station. 'l'he observed excesses were, for the Steubenville arbitrary signals, us follows: Stager-Steubenville .··.·.·.·......···.· +os.040 by 31 measures. Stager-Jones .··..·. _...·...· ~ ... _.... +os.039 by 31 " Again, for the Jones arbitrary signals, on the Stager clock scale, we found: Stager-Steubenville._ ········....··.··· -Os.004 by 39 measures· Stager-Jones ·.························ +os.060 by 226 "

S. Doc.' 8.
The direction of the ·current frbm the platinum to the iinc, throtlgh the junction wires, was from Stager to Steubenville; thence to Jones; thence round by Louisville to Stager. This is the first experiment made by the Coast Survey on a telegraph line of iron wire exclusively, without ground connexion. The first conclusion to be drawn from this experiment is, that the excesses of the clock station readings, in the experiments heretofore made, have not been owing to the fnct that a part of the galvanic circuit has been made through the ground, since they nr<1 here found to be as gi·eat for the dimensions of the l.ine as in former experiments, with the partial ground connexions. This experiment was made with a long circuit of iron wire, without ground connexion. It confirms the general conclusion respecting the value of wave-time. · It gives a new field for the discussion of the physical question whether the wave is propagated round in one direction, and only affects the magnets as it reaches them in succession in this direction, or whether the wave travels by the shortest direction from one magnet to another, without reference to the character of the poles. Our experiments with lines composed partly of ground and partly of iron wire stretched on poles, led to the preference of the latter view of the subject. '.rhe experiment at Cincinnati, in 1861, raises some doubt on this conclusion. It was made with a single battery at Ci'ncil)nati, and with 840 miles of wire, all in the air. The work of this night was not as complete as I could have desired. I must, therefore, wait till .similar experiments ai-e made, under more favorable circumstances, before attempting a further examination of the question.

s~ J)bc.

8.
~ II: cl 'S ~
I\)

419
., =...

NJ.

~
Dato.

ii:

OS

J s
i
"' "a
Ca .·. .. do .. ..do ·· ..do .. ..do ·. N ··. ..do .. .. do ·. .. do .· Wn .. .· do ·. Cd ·. ..clo .. .. ilo .. .. do .. Wg .. .. do ..

i

I\)

~

'$
QI

l

@
2 3 4 5 6
7

~

lit;

~

lj
0
8.

~

I\)

~

---938 418 938 418 020 418 418 418 418 1, 151 651 330 330 182
18'2

~

~

'j J ~!
Q

S' cl

~

0

8 9

10
11

12
13

14 15
16

17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29

30 31 32 33 34
35

50 51 52

49

3fi 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48

January 23, 1849 ··.. do ··.··. do .. .··. do .····· do ·. ...· do ······ do .· ·.·· do ...··· do ·. .... do .····. do .. .... do .··.·· do .. .·.. do .····· do ·. ...· do .····. do .. October 31 1849 ·... do ...··· do .. .·.. do .····· do ·. .··· do .····. do ·. .·.. do .·.··· do .. .··. do ..·... do ·. .... do .····. do ·. ··.. do ..·.·· do ·. .··. do .····· do .. .··· do .····. do ·· .... do ..··.. do .. Fobruury 4, 1850 .·.. do ···... do ·. .·.. do ..···. do .. .... do ..···· do ·. .·.. do .····· do .. .... do .····. do .. ..·· clo .····. do .. ..·. do ··.···· do ·. .··· do ...··. do .. ···. do .···.. do ·. .·.. do ..··.· do .. .··. do .····· dii ·· .·.. do ... ···· do .. ···. do .···.. do .. ..·. do .····. do .· ..·· do .····· do ·. ..·· do .····· do ·· ···· <lo ······ do ·. .··. do ..···. do ·· ..·. do .····· do .. ···· do .····· do .· . ·· · <lo .····. do ·· .··. do ·.·.·· do .· ···. do ...... do ·· .··. do .··· '·· do .. ····do .····· do ·. Fobrunry I>, 1850

Pa .. .. do .. .· do .. .· do .. .· do .. .. do .. .. do .· .. do .· .. clo .. Ci... .. do .. Wn .· .. do .. .. do .. .. do .. .. do .. .. do .. .. do ·. .. do .· ·. do .. .. do .. .. do .. .. do .. ·. do .. ·. do .. .. <lo .. .. do .. .· do .· .. do .·

..do ..
.. do .. ..do ·. l'g .. ..do .. .. do .. ..do ·. ..do .· ..do ..

Ci. ..
Lo ·. Ls .. Ci.. · .. do .. ·. do ·. Lo .. Ls .. Lo ·. .. do .. Ls ·. .. do ..

.. do ··

.. do .. ·. do ·· .. do .· .. do .. ·. do .· ·. do .· ·. do ·· ·. do .. .. do .. .. do ·. .. do ·. ·· do ·. ·· do .. ·. do ·· ·. do ·. ·. do .. .· do ·. July8 .··.·.···· Bu ·· IJecolilbor ······. Su ... .!:'ob. and March ·. Sn ··. ·· do .····· do ..·. ·. do ·. 9, 1851 Ci ··· May

Ci...
·. do ·. ·· d(I .. Lo ·. .· do .. Ls .. ..do ·· ·. do .. Cn ··

en ..

N ... Pe ... Sn-Ps ....
Sn-Cn ···. Art ·. 811-Aa .··. So ... Ci-So ·...

Pa-Ca .··. .do-N ·..·. Wn-Ca ··. . do-N ····. N-Co. ...·· Pa-N ····· .do-Cn .·.. Wn-Ca ··· Wn-N .··. Ci-Wn .··· . do-Cd ..·. Wn-Ci .·.· . do-Ci ·... Il-C11.. ... .do-Ci .·.· Wn-Cd .·. ~do-Ci. ·.. JI.-Ccl ..··· . do-Ci ···· CcI-ci: .·· Wu-Pg ... . t1o-do .... . do-Cl .... .110....;.do ···. .do-L ...·. . do-8. L ... .<lo-Pg .... .do-do .··, ·. . do-do ..·· . do-Ci ·.·. . do-Le ..·. . do-Ls .··. .do-Ci ..·. .do-Ci ..·. .do-Lo ..·· ;do-Ls .··· .do-Le ···· .do-Ls ..·. Pg-Ci .... .do-Lo ···· .do-I,s ···· .do-Le-.··· .do-Ls ···· .do-do ·.·· Ci-do ····· Lo-do .··. Wu-Cu ..· J3u-N ····

330 618 182 470 288 57Ci 576 576 576 576 576 57(\ 570 ()76 1,244 1,244 1,244 1, 244 1, 244 1,494 1,494 l,4!l4 2,000
668

+0.003 .024 .053 .on .030 .036 .004 .034 .020 .0(i8 .043 .019 .023 .008 .009 .017 .025 .038 .043 .004 .028 .ow .034 .032 .035 .051
.028

25
l6

34 23
18
7

f"

s.

8 9 14 88 12 34 29 22 25 17 12 5
9

0.003 0.008 0.016 -0.005 -0.009 +o-023 -0.007 +0.007 -0.008 -0.001 -0.002

~-002 0.004

12 41

.003 +o.oo4 +0.015 -0.026 -0.013 ro-015 0.009

44 33 36 57
ll

~-007 .003
.005 +0.002 -0.014 .+o.ooo +0.009 -0.008 +0.004 0.004 +0.014 +0.001 -0.016 -0.013 -0.006
-0.03t:I

.028 .045 .075 .075 .070 .095
.109

32 47

aa

&G
32

.OBI

26

668
008

918 918 1,514 846 590 1,416 484 536
500 292

.102 .134 .l4ri .047 .Q47 .042 .081 .074 .089 .050 .032 .084 .033 .024

51':! 60 56 49
(\"

61

"

32

32 29 48 58 60 60
li7

.OM

-

580

.019 .040

221 59 40 31

oa

45

-0.049 -0.004 -0.004 +0.001 -0.C23 -0.016 +o.oos 0.005 +o.ooa -0.008 -0.002 =r-011 0.017. +o.ooo +0.006

38,294

+;uoo-12.051
s,

l!'rom which It appear« that the tlmo of traversing 15,342 lililes is one second. Tbe column IXlarked ( obs'd-comp'd) is bused upon thiH v11lue. Yours, respectfully, ' SEARS C. WALKER, .tf.11i1tant C.

S'. Doc.

3~

APPENDIX No. 26. Abstract of reports on longitudes, by Sears C. Walker, assistant in the coaq& survey, to the Su1Jerintend1:nt. September 30, 1851. DEAR Sm: I beg to submit an abstract of all my reports on longi. tude hitherto made.
CA.MnRIDGE,

~ ~

Harvard Observatory, west of Greenwich.

k. m. s. r-....~ (A) By moon-culminations at Harvard, 1843-1845 .·.·.·. 4 44 28.47

'\ " ~ " ~) '- . "

"'

¥i l ·

" " "

" " "

" " "

Hudson, Ohio, 1838-1844.. Wilkes' obs'y, 1838-1842... Washington obs'y, 1845....

·

28.62 28.52 28.06

.(A) Mean by moon-culminations ..·...··.·····..····.· 4 44 '(B) By eclipses, transits,

f4'

jk

. 1" "

include, on the average, the. constant error of his parallax of the moon. Airy, in his reductions of the Greenwi.ch observations of the. moon, \i ·~ makes the correction of this parallax to be 6 "'o =+l".78. Professor ~r· C $ .P(e~de}and myself have .co(~~te)d the average value of the coefficient

Ji{
J\

i,)l

'i "

" j" · "

a~d occultations-

28~42
Weight.

----31.22 32.56 33.'J3 6.4 0.4 2.5 1.0

" At Dorchester and Harvard, 1820-1840 ..... .4 44 32.16 "Brooklyn, NewYork............. .··...· Philadelphia, 1769-1840. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " Wilkes' observatory, 1838-1842..........

Mean by eclipses, transits, and occultations .. 4 44 32.27 -10.3

('ti. . These phenomena have been reduced by Burkhardt's tables, and

'~ ... -2s. 67 are-

~-;;

=-ls.5, whence

-6

"'

X 6?r0 =-2s.67;

and 4/t. 44m. 32s.27
s·
~9.60

Ii. m. .(B') Corrected mean by eclipses, transits, and occultations 4 44

:(C) By chronometers with LiverpoolIndiscriminate mean of 373 chronometers in all .·.· 4 44 30~92 " . " 5 Great special ~ 175 " 80.96 { Exp. of 1849 S 30.10 Bond's. " " " " "

.{C) Adopting the last v~lue ········· : ········ : ······ 4 44 30.10
: ;B) . ". '.

.ao.10 C) " " ". · ...···.····. ~ ·· Adopted for the present, Har,vard observatory ········· 4 44·29'(!6..

!

A~

Lo. ngitude of Harvard observatory ······.·.······ 4 44 28.42

".

"

···············

29.64: ·.

z,:ro

.s.. Doc. 8'.

481

Then we have, by the telegraph operations of the Coast Survey, the following results from Greenwicli, depending on this assumed longitude of Harvard observatory : h. m. s. New York, (City Hall,) ....................... ~· .·. 4 66 00.160 Philadelphia observatory. · · · . · · · · · · · . . . · . · · · · · · · · · 6 00 37 .604 Seaton Station, (Washington, D. C.)........... ·· · · · 6 07 68;664 .Capitol, Washington............. · · · · · · · . · · · · · · · · · 5· 08 00.863 Wilkes' observatory . · · · · · · · · · · · . · · . . · · · · · . · . . · · · · 6 08 00.958 Washington observatory · ~ -.·..... · · . · · · . · · . . · · . · · · 6 08 11~06 Georgetown observatory (Georgetown, D. C.).......... 6 08 17.206 Charleston observatorY., S. C. (Sec. V) · · . . · · . . · · · · · · 6 19 43.832 Savannah Exchange, (Sec. V) . · · · · . · · · · · · . · · · · · · · · 6 24 20.672 Hudson observatory, Ohio, ··.···...·.·.·····.·.···. () 26 43.206 Cincinnati observatory . · · . · · · . · · · · · . · · · . · · . . . · · · · · () 37 68.062 The following results depend on moon culminations and occultations: ·Sand Key, Florida, (Sec. VI) . . · · . · . · · . · · · · · · · . · · · · 6 2!1 31.641 Moro Castle, (Havana) . . . · · · . . · . . . . . . .. . · · . . · · · · · · 6 29 24.000 Point Conception, (Sec. X) . · · · · · · · · · · . · . . . · · . . · · · · 8 01 42.640 Respectfully submitted : SEARS C. }V ALi~ER, Assistant Coast Survey. Prof. A. D. BACHE, LL. D., Superintemlcnt Ooast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 27. Report ef tlw Sttperintcndcnt uf tlte Coa.~t Sun:cy to tlw Secretary of the Treasury, recommending a light-lwuse at Fi.siting Battwy, in Cltesapealce b<ty; and report of examination by Lieutenant Comma:nding J, J. Almy, United States navy, assistmit in tlte coast s1ttvey. CoAST StmvEY OFFICE, November 20, 1861. Sm: !have the honor t_o report that an examination has been made, as' required by the act of Congress approved l\forch 3, 1851, by the instructions of the department, of th_e necessity for a light-house at Fishina Battery, otherwise called Donahoo's Battery, in the Chesapeake, near Havre-de-Grnce, Maryland, and to recommend the construction of a tower there of fifteen feet in height, to show a light of the fourth order, or harbor light. The 'Position proposed for a light-house is marked in the accompanying tracmg from the Coast Survey map of Chesapeake bay. The details of the examination made by Lieutenant Commanding Almy, United States navy,. assistant in the coast survey, are given in the report which is herewith transmitted, which also states in detail the purposes to be answered by the lighti and its relations to the lights already established in 'the vicinity at Havre-de-Grace, arid at 'fu1·key Point. · . Very respectfully yours, A. D. BACHE, Superintendent U. B. Coa1t Bur?:ey. Hon; THos. CoRWIN 1 Secretary oj tlie 7're<J.41J,ry.

31

S. Doc. 3.
WASJIINGTON CtTY,

November 18, 1861.

Srn: In obedience to your instructions, I have made an examination of Fishing Battery, Chesapeake bay, with reference to placing the proposed light-house for which an· appropriation was made at the last session of Congress. · Fishing.Battery (sometimes called Donahoo's Battery.) lies S. ! E., (true,) distant three miles from· Havre-de-Grace light-house, and NW. i (true,) distantfive and a,lialf miles from ·Turkey Point light-house. It is upon the edge, on the southwest side of the extensive flats off and abreast the moutfr of the Susquehanna river. The channel for loaded vessels leaving· Havre-de-Grace for Baltimore, runs by and within half a mile of Fishing Battery, and when abreast of it, vessels have to change their course at right-angles;· therefore I unhesitatingly say, that for vessels running at night I consider it necessary to have a light here. The kind of light which, in my judgment, would best answer and subserve.all necessary purposes, would be a beacon light-a fixed dark red light', elevated· about· fifteen feet· above the surface· of the water. Owing to its relative position to Havre-de-Grace light and Turkey Point light, the light to be placed upon Fishing Battery would not require to be seen a distance exceeding five miles. I recommend a fixed dark red light, because both Turkey Point light and Havre-de-Grace light are fixed lights of a whitish color. ·Fishing Battery has piles already driven, partially planked over, and there are sheds and buildings of a rough, rude structure, for the accommodation of fishing operations. I cannot speak with certainty as to whether these piles are driven firmly enough mto the ground, or whether they are in a sufficiently sound condition for a foundation upon which to erect a structure for a light. To ascertain this, the planking will have to be taken up, and an examination made by a person thoroughly versed in such matters. I am, sir, respectfully yours, JOHN J. ALJ.VfY,

w.

Lieutenant U. S. Navy, Assistant Coast Survey.
Prof. A. D. BACHE,

Superintendent Co(J,8t Survey.

APPENDIX No. 28.

Extract&from the report ef Henry L. Whiting, Esq., assi-stant in. tlze coast survey, to the Superintendent, on t!te survey of Beaufort, Nortli Carolina.
W ASHINGTON1 May 13, 18151.
DEAR

Srn:

·

·

·

·

·

The survey is extended, on the outside shore, about three miles from either point of the inlet, and beyond the limits of the bar and shoals of its entrance. In the harbor and about the town, I have carried the sur· vey beyond all the important localities, so as to fully include all the c})an· nel-ways connecting the harbor with the intedor waters, and furnishing

·s. nae. s.
'topographical detail to show the npproacbes by land to the best water and landings, with the character of the shore, which is of course rep:;. 1·esented in our conventional signs. · · · · I have also made as accurn:te a survey as their character will admit, ofthe shoals and bars within the harbor, as they exist at low water cif ordinru·y spring tides. ' · ·
In reporting upon the natural dmracter an cl peculiarities ofBeaufort, as· a harbor and port, I will state such facts as have come under my· personal knowledge, and also communicate my opinion regarding its entrance and the facilities it might afford. to the commercial interest of this region. · · · The outside beach,· or "bank," opposite Beaufort harbor, is of the usual formation of this coast. It is mostly covered with a low pine; and mixed growth, and its average width is about half a mile; the so.hd hills and ridges ul?on it are from 20 to 315 or 40 foet high, thus forming a good and sufficient shelter, from both wind and sea, to ajl vessels anchored inside the banks; the holding-ground is also good, as shown. by the results of the hydrogra.phical survey. · The interior shores of the harbor nre mostly of marsh, grown with masses of oyster-beds and shells, which, near the edges and where the sand has united with them, ure quite hard and solid. At Lenoxville and Shepherd's Point, and at the town of Beaufort, the main upland comes to the water's edge. At the two former points, the deep wa.ters of Newport and North Hiver channels approach quite near tlie shore, and "'ithout any intervening shoals. During the last thirty years there docs not appear to have been any particular change, either in the shore-line or shoals witltin the limits of the harbor. The causes and action of tide, &c., which first formed them, seem to continue them in their general position and extent. That the inlet and bar of Beaufort are probably the best on our whole eastern seacoast, south of the Chesapeake bay, is, I believe, a matter of fact, and needs no comment. · There are two principal· causes which, I think, have preserved this inlet, and will continue to keep it open, with probably deeper water than . any of the other hru·bors on this coast. One of these causes is the shelter and eddy currents occasioned by Cape Lookout. The influence of these currents upon the inlet, opening, as 1t does to the south, and in the "bite" of the cove immediately under it, is, to cut and carry away the sands and shoals which storms may throw up, and depos1te them at the point of the cape. At least, it is obvious that the influence which has formed Cape Lookout, and .creates the deep water and bold shore of this cove immediately south of it, will not allow any deposites to take place at a point where the eddy and counter-currents have their greatest effect; while the projection of the cape, and the shoals extending beyond it, prevent the action of the sea within this cove from being as great, or having the srune effect, as ,upon a coast presenting an unprotected and nearly even outline to the action of storms and breakers, as is the case on the shores both above and below Cape Lookout and Cape Hatteras.

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

S.

:Q~c.

3.

'J'.hc other influence whi.ch I think will always tend to preserve the inlet at Beaufort, is from the non-existence of any large interior sound mb~. ·· · . The current through the inlet is wholly a tidal one, and the back waters of "Borgne" and "Cove sounds," and from "Newport" and "North" rivers; accumulate no more on the flood tide than escapes on the ebb; they.are also of such extent and so located as to be materially affected by the tide, being filled and emptied by the flood and ebb, ana there are no fresh-water feeders to. either of the rivers s.ufficient.to at all affect their currents. · · There is thus a strong and continual tidal current through the inlet, and this current is not lost or overpowered by a heavy swell from s~a; ,deadening its effect and throwing back the sand, which it displaces, in shoals and bars ; but it runs with the eddy currents of the cove int<? Which the inlet opens, and the Sa(l)e action and effect is continueq that the current out of the inlet produces, all tending to preserve and deepen the channel. . In comparing the inlet .at Beaufort with Ocracokc and others opening from the large sounds, the advantages and disadvantagt\s of either are obvious. These latter are almost as much exposed on the inside to the great mass of waters in the sounds as they are on the outside to the ocean. The effect of storms and tides is consequently great as well as .µD.certain. Heavy storms from the westward prevent the tide fr~m flowing through the inlets from the ocean, while the water and surf from the sounds heave up swashes and shoals on the inside. · The action of storms from sea is still worse, while the waters of the sounds are driven back and shoals are thrown up and formed across the mouth of the inlet, without any counter influence to prevent or carry them away. · In a commercial point of view, Beaufort, as a harbor and port, ha~ many advantages and is well situated. There is no river or inland navigation to delay or require the towing of large . vessels. A ship drawing 20 feet water can leave at any state of the tide with ll;lmos; any wind, and discharge her pilot at sea in from 30 to 45 minutes after weighing anchor. · It seems, therefore, that the usefulness of one of the best harbors anq vorts on o~r whole southern coast is lost from the want ()f proper fa~il1ties of communication and internal improvements, giv~ng access. to it from the interior country and cities.
· # # · · · ··

I remain, sir, very respectfully yours,
HENRY L. WHITING.
Prof. A. D.
BACHE,

Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey, Washington.

si Db'cf a.
APPENDIX No. ~w:

Letter of the Superintendent of tlie Ooast Survey to the Secreta.ry ef the Treasury, communicating a report of Lieut. Com. J, N. Maffitt, U. S.l!j., assistant in t.lte coast survey, 1tpon the necessity for certain aids to navigation. in Beaufort ltarbor, N. C.
CoAST SURVEY OFFICE,

February 27, 1851,
Com. J. N.· Maffitt, U. S. N., assistant in the coast survey, of buoys and beacon' (or range) lights, required in the harbor of Beaufc>rt, North Caro-· lina, the hydrography of which has been executP.d by the party unde.r his command, and would respectfully request that it may, with the accompanying sketch showing the position of the beacons and lights·, be transmitted to the authority which should a.ct in the matter. ··· Very respectfully, yours, A. D. BACHE, Su11erintendent U. S. Coast Survey.
Hon. TuoMAS CORWIN,

Sin : I have the honor to transmit a report just received from Lieut.

Secretary

of tlie Treasury.

Report of Lieutenant Commanding Jolin N. Maffitt, U. S. N., assiJtant iti the coast survey, .to tlte Superintendent, in relation to ligjits and buoys in Beaufort harbor, N. a.
8, 1851 ·. Sm: I respectfully propose the following improve~ents in the harbor of Beaufort, N. C., for the purpose ofrendering it sate for a vessel to enter without a pilot, by day or night, viz : l~t. A single buf!·light on Shackleford Point, due north of ~ru·~'\),:uoy, (which should be brought to bear north and then run for, until the first range course is made.) 2<l. Two bug-lig!tts west of Fort Macon, to be placed in range for first course after passing the Bur buoy. (See sketch.) 3d. Two bug-lights-one on Macon Point, the other on the marsh in· the.rear-giving the range for course No. 2. (See sketch.) 4th. A buoy on 10-foot spot, and marked on .the sketch Biwy No. 2. · oth. A buoy on the south spit of the middle ground', marked on sketch Buoy No. 3. 6th. A buoy in mouth of the Slue, marked on the sketch Buoy No. 4. 7th. A buoy on the west side of the middle ground, marked on the sketch Buoy No. l>; With such guides a stranger could enter, by day or night, without fear. Respectfully, &c., J, N. MAFFITT, · Lieut. Com., Assistant U. S. Coast Survey.
1

,

UNITED STATES ScuooNER GALLATIN, Nortli Edi.~to, S. 0., FebruariJ

Pro£ A. D. BACHE, Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey.

~t· D.om
Letter

ai ·

APPENDIX.· Np. "30·

of the Superintendent of tlte Coast Survey to tlte Scl"l'Cta?'Y of tlze . Treasury, communicating a report of Lieutenant Commandin~ J, N. Maffitt, U. S. N., assistant in ·tlte coast survey, on tlte necessity for a ligltt-house on the ul'I!erjettee, Cape Fear river, N. C.
CAPE SMALL PoINT,

Near Bath, Maine, October, 15, 1861.

S.rn: I have the honor to report, that in conformity with the act approved March 8, 1861, making appropriations for light-houses, buoys, &c., and the instructions of the department, the question of the necessity for a light-house on the upper jettee of Cape Fear river has been examined; ap,d that I recommen<l the construction of the same, for the reason assigned in the report of Lieutenant Commanding J. N. Maffitt,. United S.tates navy, assistant in the coast survey. ; The report of Lieutenant Maffitt is herewith transmitted, with the "eye-sketch" wh'kh accompanied it. . Very respectfully, yours,
. Superintendent U~ S. Coast S1m:~y.

A. D. BACHE,

Hon. TuoMAs Corw1N, · Secretaril rif the Treasui-y.

DEAR

SMITHVILLE,. N: C., September 12, 1861. Sm: I have visited the "upper jettees of Cape Fear river,"

and herewith enclose to you an "eye-sketch" of that section, where so;ne improvements are requisite for the benefit of navigation. 'O~, the upper eastern jettee (No. 2) a light is certainly required, t~at steamers and sailing-vessels bound down at night may be enabled to kee:e the "fair channel way," which they cannot always do at present, from the iact, that as tho field of view is opened from just above Graham's island, jettee No. 2 trenches entirely athwart the apparent channel, and there is no guide which will enable a mariner to calculate how to steer, i11 order to clear this jettee, and keep in the best water, , which is close to its end. The same holds good (from tho sudden bend of the river) in sailing up. · It is not an· uncommon circumstance at night for vessels to misjudge their distance, and run into jettee No. 2. The. upper western jettee is out of the channel way; a light tberc would be useless. The "reacl1es" over " W reek shoal" are not long enough to warrant the erection of "range lights." · I consider it necessary that the present buoys be replaced by larger ones; and as the forest on each side gives a dark back-ground, they should be painted white; they would then always be seen on a starI also propose that "tripods," painted white, be erected on jette~s Nos. 3, 4, and 6. They would materially assist the navigator w

light night.

s. Doc.

8,.

487

avoiding the shoals, and }ettees tltemsclves, which are low in the watel, dilapidated, and more dangerous to vessels than beneficial to the river.

A requisite !ight·house for the upper eastern jettee should not cost over four thousand dollars; Very respectfolly, your obedient servant, J. N. MAFFITT, Lieut. Com. and Assistant OoaBt Survey. Prof. A; D. BACHE, · Su11erintendcnt U. S. Coast SurVC'IJ 1 Washington.

. .

,

. . . . .

APPENDIX No. 30, bis.
Letter from the Pr~sident ef tlw Cltamber ef Commerce of C~m:leston, S. 'd'J to the Supffrintendent of tlte U. S. Coast Survey, requesting a tracing ef tlw cltart ef Cltarlcston ltarbor.
CHARLESTON, June 18, 1861. Srn: At an extra merting of the Chamber of Commerce of Charleston, held this day, the enclosed resolution was unanimously adopted, and I was instructed to transmit you a copy, and e~press the hope that :you may be able conveniently.to comply with our request. We desired a copy of this chart to assist us in forming some opinion of the best method of improving the entrance to our harbor. Public attention has long been attracted to the "Sullivan's island" channel, as offering strong inducements to attempt some improvements there, ·and the developments made by the Coast Survey tend strongly to encourage . this,feeling. If you have had your attention attracted to this subject, and adopted any definite views in relation to it, you would be doing, . ·. ~ tial aid to a subject of vast public imi,:>0rtnnce and profound int' t'~ ou1· community by making your ovimons known. Yours, with great respect, G. W. TRENHOLM, President Charleston Chamber of Oommerc~· · Prof. BACHE, WaB!tington. · DEAR

·Resolved, That Professor Bache be respectfully requested to furnish the Chamber of Commerce, for the use of the mercantile and navigating interests of Charleston, a trucing of the chart of Charleston harbor, recently constructed under the direction of t110 Coast Survey.

s: Doc;
1l4Jwt of the

3.,

APPENDIX No.-30, 'tru.

Superintendent rf the Coast Survey to the Secretary of tlie Treasury, communicating sailing directiom for the e'ntrqnce into North Edisto karwr, by Lieutenant Commanding J. N. Maffitt, United State1 'na'V'!f, a,,sistant in the coast survey.

COAST SURVEY OFFICE, April 28, 1851. Sm: I have the honor to communicate the following information, supplied by Lieutenant Commanding J. N. Maffitt, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, in relation to North E~listo harbor, and tD request authority to publish it for the benefit of navigators: , "This harbor of refuge is about sixteen miles to the southward and' westward of Charleston light-house. It is easy·of access-one course "' over the bar taking the vessel to a safe anchoraO'e, 0 In four ·fathoms water, (with the point of Seabrook island, on the north side of the harbor, bearing northwest,) you will 'be close up to the >;' bar. "Bring Bare bluff (a remarkable clump of trees which stands back fiom the entrance about ten miles, and can be easily recognised by four tall trees rising above the others) about four hand-spikes to the left of Seabrook point, and run in on that range. "When almost 'Off the starboard sand-sJ.?it, keep in mid-channel, to avoid a sand-fiat on that shore. By keeping near mid-channel, good water may be carried up to the anchorage, abreast of Mr. Legare's, (the · fir11t house upon the port shore.) "At 'mean low-water' there are thirteen feet on the bar. The mean rise and fall is six feet. The ebb-tide on the bar tends to the southward and eastward-the flood north-northwest. "The establishment of North Edisto, for two months' tidal observa~ tie>ns h1 1861, is seven hours nine minutes." Ye.fY respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. };lQniWM. L. Hono:E, ct!: Acting Secretary of tlte Treasury.

APPENDIX No. 31.

.Ref~rt of F. H. Gerdes, csq., assistant in the coa.9t survey, to the Su11erinten,dent, on t~e rccomtaissance oJ the coast of Florida, from tlie Suwannee river to the St. Martin's reef.
.

SIR: In compliance with your orders, I left Pascagoula November

2d, for the Cedar keys, Florida.
.\

The first section was the Cedar keys and the reefs to the eastward; then I examined W acassassa bay, Suwannee reef~ Withlacoochee. buy, Crystal river, and St. Martin's reef.

. . . . . . . .

PASCAGOULA,

December 20, 1850·.

S.

Doc~

8.

Obsetvations for latitude and time were made almost daily. A tidegauge was kept for about twelve days, and the n~cessarJ: soundings. to mark the several channels were ta.ketr. ' The heights of several ·hills were m~asured, and a special reconnaissance was made·for a base to be used for a preliminary survey. A small base, upon which all the bear-. in~s and angles depend, was twice measured, an<l, on many important pomts, signals were left to designate them.
Description

of tlie

Coast.

1. Suwnnnee river and ~ay.-The Suwannee, one of the principal, rivers on the coast of Florida, is deep, and· has very f~rtile lanas on its borders. 'f he country is fiat and densely wooded-the forests co9sist- · ing of pine and other kinds of dmher. Sugar and cotton are cultivated in considerabl.e quantities, ~nc,l ma,ny acres are cleared yearly in the hammocks. The mouth of the river is shoal-burs obstructing both' outlets. '!'he lower or southeast outlet, however, is the:< best, and is., now generally used. The northwest outlet, near Bradford's island, j11· entirely abandoned. An oyster reef runs, in a horse-shoe shape, before this river, and forms the .Suwannee bay, which is 9quully.shoal.' More1 than five feet at high-tide cannot be carried either over the bar, into. the bay, through the bay:, or into the river itself. A steamboat plies on the river to Depot key, carryin~ passengers and produce (cotton and sugar) to the shipping places ot the vicinity. 2. Cedar keys.-The Cedar keys form a group of islands making out from a point of the main land, Just below the ~uwunnee reef,. to the southward. The greater portion of these keys 1s connected with the m~n, and only at high tides they are separated by smnll boat-channels. Several of the keys, however, extend for a few miles further to the southward, and these, of course, are islands proper. · . 'IJJie C~dar keys consist of Way key, Seal~ ~c.cy, Big key, Flat key.,. Black Point key, and numerous others, only dlVldcd by small pus8Bes; none of which, however-except old No; 4 channel-are fit even for boats. The keys are cut up into numbel'lcss patches of marsh .sand, beach, mangroves, and wood ; but as the surface was surveyedjn detail by the corps of topographical engineers, I have only deline'ltted the outlines. On Way key there is an elevation of abo.ut fifty fe~t; and other hills, of a minor class, are formed on Lime Point1 .Bl11;9k Point. key, Live-oak key, &c. The islands proper belonging to the Cedai: keys· are North key, Sea-horse key, Depot key, Snake 1$.ey, Derrick's key, Dog island, and several rninor ones. North ltmj is' woode.d-has two large ponds...,.-is hilly in the middle, · and has a house on it, though uninhabited. Sea-horse key is the southern key-is forty-five feet high-has .a long~· hilly ridge, an uninhabited house, and an excellent harbor close to the eastern point. In the war with the Indians, Sea-horse key was occupied by our troops~ Depot key is the anchorage of the Cedar keys-is inhabited by ten or twelve families, and affords quite a fine view. There ;,.re here hospitals and storehouses, and several cottages, overhung by tall palmetto trees. A handsome wharf, and the appearance of business, enliven

tpe sight. All the cotton and sugar of the neighboring rivers are taken by flats to this place, and shipped from here either to Mobile or to New" York. From fifteen to eighteen ..vessels arrive here yearly for this purpose, and probably as many more transient ones. Snake key forms a triangle with the Sea-horse and Depot keys, is hilly, but small, and affords some protection to the harbor of Depot key· from southeast winds. Derrick key, situated to the west of the main group, is. small, and separated from the others by the steamboat·channel to the Suwannee bay. Dog island, northeast from the Depot, is small and low, and contains only mangroves and a few cabbage-trees. Ohan.ncl No. l-three channels.-The principal channel to the anchorage at De.Pot key runs east of the Sea-horse, and fourteen feet have· been· earned in here, at a good tide. The channel is plain enough,· when known and well staked out. Channel No. 2-small channel just below the Sea-horse, across .the reef-is little used; but I am assured that eight feet water may safely be carried. A survey of this channel would be useful for smaller vessels, as it would avoid the necessity of doubling the Sea-horse reef, · (fifteen miles long.) Channel No'; 3.-Another channel comes in from the westward, hetwe~n Sea-horse and No1th keys, just above (north of) Bird key. At a good tide, nine feet may be carried in. The channel is plain and well staked out. Channel No. 4.-This channel, although it has the best water, is very little or not at all used, as it does not extend to the anchorage. It runs from the westward about half a mile above North key, and carries fourteen feet of water to the first and second Mangrove keys; then it sud~ denly stops, and the anchorage at the termination remains quite exposed to westerly winds. It might be used in good seasons, with the aid of lighters; but it would be unfit for the railroad terminus, for the abpve reasol,1f; and, besides, it.would be very expensive to extend the track so.far"over very low, marshy ground, and partly over shoal water. The,reef of Sea-horse key runs from the Sea-horse for ten miles SW., arnktpetrce for five miles SSW., and has shallow spots of only a few feet of water. A moderately-sized coasting vessel touched lately on the southernmost point, not having Sea-horse key even in sight. 4. Wacassa!Jsa bay.-The coast of the main from Cedar keys runs for more thart!lten miles in nearly an eastern direction, viz: from Live Olk'.1Point, and "old block-house No. 4," (garrison fort of the Florida war,) to the Wacassnssa river, from whence an angle to the south is formed; The coast is .flat, ~nd for one or two miles inland marsh;r, where the dense and uninhabited forest commences, and stretches for miles into the t:ountry. This whole shore is a complete,oyster-µed; I never in my life saw such enormous quantities together. Many reefs formed of the same shell run across the bay, mostly in a parallel course with the coast. One channel between the western reefs, c~rries eight feet water in the bay; anotlfri~~between the eastern reefs, has ten feet; but they stop suddenly. Th~ acassassa river is similar to the Sµwannee river; bas very fonile hammocks on the borders, and the plantations of sugar ~nd

cotton are in a flourishing co.ndition. The soil contains marl, .and, it is said, under the same for sixteen feet, clay., '!'he depth of the river. is considerable, but not mol-e than five feet can be caiTiecl, under the most favorable circumstances. All shipments from here are· made in fiat ..· boats, to Depot key. '1i' . 15. Witlilacoocliec bay.-Below, to the south of the 'Vacassassa bay, the Withlacoochee buy begins, and forms the mouth of the river of the same name. The shores of the bay are similar to tbose of the W acassassa-low, flat, marshy, intermixed with mangrove bushes, and a mile. or two inland very thickly wooded. 'l'he point of land in the middle, between the two rivers, is called Man~rove Point. The whole bay· is. ' very shoal, and not more. than three or four feet of water can be carried into the river. '!'he latter has very little hammock land, and is less settled than the other rivers, perhaps on account of the difficulty of navigation. An oyster reef extends a few miles from the river's mouth in~~b~ · 6. Crystal river and bay.-From the Withlacoochee the shore runs southward,. making a slight curve to the east. Five miles below is the Crystal river. The nature of the border is similar to the Wacassassa. and the' hammock land, equally fertile and rich. At \he mouth of the river is Shell island, the channel into the river running 011 the north side. The island is rather el~vated, being formed by two hills in sad{lle~ shapes, which make a fair landmark for navigation. From the mouth of the river, or rather from the south side of the entrance, the St. Mar· tin's keys commence, and extend for two or three miles to the west, theI1.¢e turn in an angle southward again. 'fhese keys are low and marshy, and generally thickly covered with mangroves. · Outside of these is the famous and very dangerous St. Martiu's reef, which runs parallel to the coast, to the southward, on<l extends at soine points as far as ten miles to sea. It is said this reef extends to the.Anolote ke~s, a distance, perhaps, of Jrom fifteen to thirty-five miles, which .I am m~ clined to believe. While I was beating up the coast, I generally.i:an in nine or ten feet of water on the land tack, without ever being a'illeto see the coast. To the north of this reef, just abreast of Crystal river, is a fine.anchorage, into which vessels may run for refuge, with from sixteen· to twelve feet water, perfectly safe for southerly, easterly, and northerly winds. Even from westerly gales there is much protection \ier~, the Sea-horse reef breaking much of the heavy sea. I have call~ tlns anchorage Crystal river o!fing, as the name St. Martin's bay is nl1ogeLher inappropriate, and does not designate the place. From the 'Offing ~ channel runs through tho oyster reef, which encircles~ the mouth of Crystal river, and consequently forms a beautiful harbor. I found twelve feet at low tide through the principal gut; and, as the inlet is the only one of any considerafion, I liave left two large signnl-poles on each side, on the oyster bars. It must be borne in mind that tho. tide rises here two, and frequently thr~e feet, and that therefore, under fa. vorable circumsw.nces, fourteen feet can be carriecl. in. The importancc;i of. such a harbor is very great, as it must and will become the shipping pcu't of ,nll the produce for the neighboring rivers. viz: 1l.he Withlacoochee, the Crystal river, the Homossassa, un<l the Chassahowitzka. The

s~

Doc: a~

Hom~ssassa is only five miles below the Crystal.river, and the Chassa.;. hqwitzka about ten miles; but neither has any ,channel through the St. Martin's reef, and their produce, which will be in a short time quite considerable, has. to be shipped from the nearest harbor. The honorable Senator from Florida, Mr. Yule~, mentions, in a lett~t to you, the re-port~d existence of a harbor and anch~ra$'e below the_ Cedar keys, with fourteen feet water, but he do('ls not ultimate the position nearer. I atn certain that the harbor of Crystal river is the one he mentions, as there is no other channel to be found anywhere above.

B.-Survey of the Coast. · 1, Trianeulation.--The country from the Suwannee river to Homos· sas~a river is so shaped that· the regular method of the Coast Survey in all branches may be employed for the survey of the same. There are· facilities which may be used in laying a good-shaped triangulation. with very. little clcaribg a.cross the. islands and along the coast. With the aid_ of several oyster bars, which are solid and above high-water t:P!irk, the shape even may be handsome, although the nature of the flat country does not admit of very la.rge sides. The triangles, as projected on the map, wilhshow at once the possibility, and, with one or two exceptions, the whole series will appear well-shaped and of regular form· ation ·. The sketch shows the proportions, facilities, and difficulty of the triangulation. One of the above-mentioned exceptions ie:fan artificial signal to be erected off the Withlacoochee river. Without making a proposition at present, I should think that one or two screw-piles for soft bottom (I say two for a double series) would answer exceedingly well. Signal-pol~ can be procured from either river, especially on the. W acassassa. 2. 1'o17ography.-There being little or no lnnd under cultivation near the col.ist, the whole being marsh and wood, the topography will be very simple. To extend the survey further into the country than the:. woods would be impossible, as they are impenetrable for instruments 'f besi;CJes1 there is nothing behind the.m. The plantations on the river geni;frally do not approach nearer than seven or eight miles to the shore; and therefore caunot be included in the i;;urvey. A plane-table· may be used ..here with great success, as the off-shore reefs afford a thousand. opportunities for intersecting signals. The surveying com-eass must. be empl9yed with great care, as the coast from Mangrove· PoiQ,t ab,ove the Withlacoochee, all the way down, is rather rocky, and sup~osed to contain much local attraction. 3. Jlydrogr.aphy.-'I'he hyd.rography can be canied on with success in. small vessels and boats. There is seldom any sea inside the Sea· horse reef. Snake key and the Sea-horse, being elevated, afford excel· lent poi11ts for high signals. . 1'· Astronomy.-Bea-borse key, being the most important key for na'.'l: igators, possesses all the facilities for an astronomical station. 6. Base lines.-1 have paid every attention dllring the investigation of the coast to 6,nd.suitab1e sites for a base line, upon which the triangulation may be grounded, but I have been unsuccessful so for. , The: marsh along the shore has no stability for our apparatus; the land,

wherever it is solid, .is uneven or thickly wooded. A more special reconnaissance has to ·be made for the .Purpose: p~rhaps more to the northward a site may 'be found, combining in a moderate degree the' necessary requisites. If the railroad shoulJ be built, we may get a site then from Way key. As it is now, nothing there is to be found. :E;ven for a preliminary base, the best site I could fin<l is only one and a quarter mile long, and requires much clearing and labor-touching, besides, two ponds, thb distance of which has to be ascertained by triangulation and measurement around. From here, however, the triangles may be grad·ually increased and retain good forms. The line · is on Way key. A topographical sketch of the site is appended~ The atmosphere on the coast, during my stay, was rather hazy, but not near so bad as we find it generally in Section VII.I. Five days, however, it was perfectly clear, and Sea-hoi:se key was seen distinctly for twenty miles. Refraction was sometimes very great. 0.-Tidcs and Currents. DurinO' my stay at the Cedar keys the tide was observed, on the wharf of Depot key, for s.even days. The diagram on the map will show that it consists of a foll and a neap tide nearly every twenty. · · four hours. The following are the results: Mean-tide rises and falls ..·. : .· - . . . . . . . · . . . . . . 1 foot 9.8 inches. Spring-tide " " " ...................... 2 feet 7.6 " Average of both rise and fall ...··...........·. - 2 " 2.4 " Time of rise and foll, ' 24 hours 40 minutes. · In the map of Cedar keys published by the Topographical Engineer corps, .the average rise and fall is 2.75 foot. I do not know whether my observations were of too short a duration; but the above is what I found. On the coast outside ,!;1-nd to the southwest of. the keys,, the 'genuraj tendency of the current is to the southward. It is uncertam how much prevailing win<ls and storms may influenc~ them. The pilot of the keys asserted that the currents were altogether governed by them, and that sometimes they run in quite an opposite dircction.
' "

.

D.-Railroad across tlw Pc1iinsula of Floricla. By the survey of the officers of the United States Topqgra:phieal Bureau, it appears. that Way key was proposed as the terminus of the ~ailrofl:d on the gulf sh?re. How ~ar this, in regard to ~be track its,13lf, . is advisable, I cannot Judge; but it seems to me, certa1,nly, by far the most desirable Sf>Ot in regard to the harbor. At Wa:y key and Depot key there is a safe anchorage; and although thtl channel is rather narrow, still it is sufficient for vessels of large size to turn i~. TwClve feet may be carried, ordinarily. The pilot, Captaii;i Sam. Johnson, assured me that fourteen feet con be carried, if circumstances are favorable. The only harbor besides this is -Crystal harbor; but vessels ba.ve to lie about two miles from the main land; and furthermore, the rai4:on.d itself would have to cross several rivers and marshy plains to reach this shore.

'S: Dec.

a.

E.-Light-ltous'es and Buoys.
There are no li~hts in the neighborhood of Cedar keys; but I hear that an arpropr,iut10n for one has passed in Congress, and Captain M. Coste, o the revenue service, in the cutter Crawford, has made an investigation for the special locality. I am confident that Sea-horse key has been selected for that purpose, as there jg no other place near so suitable; but as I have had pr6bably more opportunities to see the localities than the above-mentioned gentleman, during his short stay, I beg leavi;i to remark, that on Sea-horse key the h!ghest land is just to the southwest of an old shanty, or fish-house, which stands on the east beach qf the island. By actual measurement, by vertical an~les, I found 46 feet 6 inches above high-water. As the reef from this key runs out for fifteen miles, i!,:will be desirable to occupy the highest spot, tQ.µ.t the light may be visible from beyond it. There ought to be a buoy pfaced on the point of this reef, by all means. In foggy weather the Sea-horse is invisible from there, and the reef is very difficult to distin.gµish, as the1water outside deepens only gradually, .and retains tlw same color·. A screw-pile, (disk-screw,) with a barrel, could be inserte4 . easily, the reef having only quicksand and a sort of coral sand.

'F.-Gcneral Remarks on the Harbor ef tlic Cedar Keys.
It is obvious, by looking at the map of the western coast of the Florida :r>eninsula, that in a severe southwest storm the navigation must be very dangerou~. From Tampa Bay to St. Mark's the coast is generally sbo?-1, and, with the exception of the Cedar keys, no harbor of ·refuge is to be found. At the latter place the coast forms a point, and through the position of the keys and Sea-horse reef, quite a large bay is formed, in which vessels may run with almost every wind, and find shelter. at any time. This wm be still more the case when the llght-house on . the Seahorse key has been built, l>y the aid of which every part of the hay may be safely entered in d'ark and stormy nights. Not alluding at all to the commerce from the four or five rivers which empty, close to the keys, into the Gulf, and which is concentrated entirely at Depot key, but alone for the sake of a safe and spacious harbor in westerly galee, it is most desirable to develop all the facilities which the Cedar keys ·bay may afford, and to commence a regular survey at the earliest opportunity. Five large streams are, in fact,. combined at the Cedar keys, and the produce to be shipped from there doubles yearly. The pllbe will become still more important after the building of the railroad from the St. Mary's across the peninsula, arid the erection of a light-house on the Sea-horse. . A survey, grounded upon a preliminary base, might be made in a short time, and it would be practicable to publish a harbor chart comparatively very soon. Respectfully submitted : F. H. GERDES,

Assistant Coast Survey· ·

Prof. A. D.

BACHE,

Superintendent Coast Survey.

S. Doc. 8,.
APPENDIX No. 32.

Extractajrom the ~eport ef Lieutenant Commanding Jolin .Rodtrera, Uni'.ted' States navy, assistant m the coast S1trvey, to the Superintendent, of a '1'6;. connaissanc:c .ef Mosquito inlet.
· UNITED ST.lTES COAST SURVEY OPFICE,

Washington, July 19, 1801. Sm: · . · This inlet is made by the Halifax and Hillsborough runs, which, at their meeting, force an outlet to the sea. Mosquito inlet has, for a number of years, been moving to th,e southward. The light-house formerly erected at Mosquito was built upon a high sand-hill on the southr~rt1,peninsula, about ~n eighth of a mile frgm the water. In two years it fell down, undcnmned by the southward movement of the inlet. The place of the light-house is now said to be about high-water mark on the ncmh beach. ..·, The south beach is still rapidly washing away, and the north bench extends to the southward as fast. Mr. Sheldon, collector at Mosquito, says that the barrier about half u mile to the northward of the present position of the inlet is rapidly wosbin&' away. He infers that the water will soon cut a passage there, when t11is new openin()' will become the entrance to the harbor, and the present inlet close. His opinion is the result of long observation. I have no means of forming any opinion of my own as to its correctness. As many as thirteen small vessels have, I undcrstnnd, been lying in the harbor at once, waiting for cru·goes of live-oak, but none very lately. A few plnntations make sugar, which is hero exported. I did not learn of any other trade worth mentioning. I do not aecm the commerce of Mosquito sufficient to demand the erection of a light-house.

·

Very respectfully, your obedient servnnt,
BACHE,

·

·

·

·

·

~OHN RODGEHS, Lieut. Com., Assistant U. S. Coa~t Survey.

A. D.

LL. D., Superintendent Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 33.

Report of tlie Si~perintendent of tlie Coast SitrveiJ to tlie Secrctarv of. the Treasury, in regard to the expediency of placing buoys in Mosquito inlet, l?lorida, and transmitting tlw report qf Lieutenant Commanding Jolin Rodgers, United States navy, assistant in tlw coast su1-vetj·
COAST SURVEY STATION,

Near Alfred, Maine, October 1, 181.>1. Srn: In pursuance of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1851, a.11d of the mstructions of the department, I have the honor to report in regard to the expediericy of placing buoys in Mosquito inlet, on the

eastern coast of Florida, and to transmit for details a report of Lieutenant Commanding John Rodgers, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, by whom an examination of the inlet was made. I send herewith a copy of the sketch of the reconnaissance. I concur in,recommending the placing of these buoys as stated ,by Lieutenant Commanding Rodgers, with the precautions·which he suggests for their maintenance in .the right posit10ns, and ~r change of place of the bar buoys accordmg to the change of the bar itself. . I would further recommend .that Lieutenant Commanding Rodgers be intrusted with the placing of these buoys in the first instance-a duty which can be performed as he returns to Section VI, the coast of Florida. · , Important suggestions of local signals for pilotage of barred harbors are given in Lieutenant Commanding Rodgers's report, and are hereto appended for the examination of the department. · Very respcctfolly, yours, A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. Hon. TuoMAS CoRwIN, Secretary of tltc 1'rcll$ury.

t?e

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY OFFICE, Wasl1ington, August 29, 1861. DEAR Sm: The position of the proposed buoys at Mosquito inlet, Florida, cannot be usefully marked on the sketch. As the bar shiits with every gale, the best water is not now, in all probability, where it was when the examination was made. I think three buoys would be ample. I venture to propose a secondclass buoy outside of the bar; a third-class buoy inside; and a third· class buoy at the bar.· rro be useful, or rather 1!hat it may not become a nuisance, the bar buoy must be carefolly attended, and its place changed with every '"hlteration in the position of the channel. For this buoy spare moorings should be fornished, as it is probable that afi:er every change of bar the shifting sand will so have covered the anchor that every attempt to weigh it will be fruitless; in which case, to unshackle the buoy and ex:i;end new moorinrrs will be the only resource. The collector is. allowed boat hands. These men might be require~ to keep the buoy m the best water, and the collector be held responsible in bis office for the· faithfol discharge of this duty. To this end a log or frame house should be erected on the beach for the men to live 'in. The beach'washes away so fast that it is scarcely desirable to use 'more durable materials. There is now no regular pilot for Mosquito, because there is not enough commerc;e to eupport one. 'fhe boat handa employed to keep the 1iuPy in the best water would necessarily know the state of the bar, and be competent to point out the channel. Liv:ing on the. spot, ,they would always be ready to pilot vessels. Mount. Pleasqnt is. the

s~

Doc.

3~

nearest habitation to the inlet; .and at present, since no look-out is kep~ it'is only by chance a vessel is seen. · On account of the breakers it is 'Often impossible for a row-boat to cross the bar; the pilot must .then wave the vessel.in by means of, a flag. In such harbors conventional telegraphs are· established, as at St. Augustine, Florida, and Rio Grande de San Pedro, in Brazil, by which the vessel indicates her draught of water, and the pilot gives direct-ions to her for keeping in the channel. . It is desirable that this telegraph should be general to all the barred harbors of the United States, and not varied in different localities, and at the pilot's discretion; · · · · I have ventured to'propose the annexed table as perhaps sufficient. It is simpler than the Brazilian telegraph, and faller than the St. Au· gustine one. . Such modifications as may be deemed necessary can easily be made on it. ..., . Vc;ry respectfully, your obedient servant, .

· '... · JOHN llODGERS, ·· · . Lieut. Oommmtding, an,d Asst. Coast Sitrvey·. To A. D, 'BACHE, LL . D., . . · S?tpsri.ntendent Coast Survey ·

.

.·Table ef signals for piloting vessels into barred l1arbors.
The pilot's flag to be seven feet"'..13ysiX:in'tsize 1'; and;;to consist of two triangular red piece~ of red musli'n, br bunting; cndo~ing a white ttian~le th~ same: !llaterials, fastened 'tp a, stuff twelve' f~et long und one mch m diameter. · The end of the·staff to have ·a. barrel. hoop firmly la.shed to it, and to have stretched over the hoop a piece (jf muslin, the , .· upper half white and the lower half black. 'rhe pilot boat to approach the bar u.s nearly na.sli~ safely can. Tbe pilot lays on his oars, or anchors his boat. The; hoat should be fitted with an awning stan9hion aft, uml: a su·ap nround it, for the pilot to make himself fast to,:.l;hat he may :stand steadily while signalizing. .

or

;

~·

Sentences to be communicntod to the pilot by · tho vessel.

Sigunls for aenteucos opposito.

1., The vessel Wllllts a pilot · ~· ............ . ,Jack at the fore. Dip tho flag once for evG)lf foot which the vessel drn1'·s, nnd run it liiilf up and dip. it .2. my draught .······.·········· once for every qu11rtc1· of a foot. 3. In distress; I must try to come in nt high l!'lng, union down. wnter. 4. In distress; I must try to come In now ..· Flng, ui1ion <lown, dlppo<l four times. "6. I am sinking; or on fire; iitn me nshorc. An ov!lrh1111d knot·in the middle of the'flq, in the b.est P\noe. · dipped four times.

Indlc~to

~

" The bar is not alwnye the best plnoe for benching n vessel while the break.era aro v1117 beavy 011 it; there may be a comparatively smooth place on the sea-beach.

32

S. l>oc. 3.'
Table of signals-Continued.
Sentences to be communicated to the veHel by the pilot.

Sigbals for the eentence'll ,opposite.

1. Pilot cannot come out; what water does
the vessel drnw. fl, Not water enough on the bar until lligh tide.

Wave the flag to right and let\;.
Pilot raises the ftng over his head, and dips it towords'tho vessel once for every hour sha

3. The vessel connot enter until the Wind
cbapges. 4. Not wuter enough on the bur; seek an· other purt. 6. Vessel cannot erosa tho bur until the sea goes down. ·

atntr held by thl.l u1id11le. · Waves black and wliite bull to right and lefli.
Flug and .ball horizontal;

rnUl!t wait.

Bull inclined 45 degrees ta the horizon; flag in left; hand, RB pilot fu.c011 the vo1111el, and . stuff in tlw 1·ight hand. 6. The vessel may get under way and stand Pilot 11olilH tlro ling erect onr liis be11d, and for the bur. k!lepR it so until tbe vessel weighs; he ma)' incline It tlw way be wid1es .her to cast. 7. Steer the vessel to starboard; ~r port the Incline tbe flag to 1 In bo'tb t11eije signals the ·helm. starboard. . ~ flag ppints out the sido 8. Steer the vessel to port, or sturbourd your Incline the flng to. to which the. veSBel helm. . · ·. port. · . must, ~teer. 9. Steady, or steer ua. you go ..···.····.·..· Dip 'tho flag out of eight. · Hl. Steer for the pilot: bout ..··.········...· Flag overhc1ul; staff upright. 11. Anepor .···.··· ,. ; · · · · · . · · · ······.······ Bull overhead;, flag in pilot's hnnd.

J·
.

.

APPENDIX No. 34.
Report .of tlte · Superintendent of the Coast Survey to tlte Secretmy of the 1'reasury, upon the 11cce1Jsity for a ligltt-liousc, or permanent beacon, on the Jlcbecca sltoa.l,}Jctwcen tltc Tortugas and Marquesas, Coast of Florida.
CoAST SunVEY OFFICE,

'November 22, 1851. Sm: I would respectfully call the attcnti6.n: .~f the department to the necessity for a light-house, or at least for a permanent beacon, on the Rebecca shoal,, between the Tortugns and Marquesas, in the Gulf of Mexico. 'J'he position of the shoal is shown in the annexed sketch. !dies in an important thoroughfare for vessels bound into the Gulf, and is riot now marked. My attention has been called to this subject by Assistant F .· B. Gerdes, of the Coast Survey, who made the reconnaissance of the Florida keys and reefs, and who has presented two draw.. · · ne for a beacon to serve as a light-house, and the other for a ' . '' .beacon-which are at the disposal of the department, if their fumunication is desired. I send herewith a letier of Lieuteniuit n,diug John Rodgers, United ~tates navy, assista~t in the C?ast C ·· Su , lll charge of the hydrographic party on the coast of Iflor1da,

s.

I)oc~ 3~

to Mr. Gerdes, in reply to his inquiries relative to the ncc-.sityfor a light on the Rebecca shoal, and to the plan for a structure to contain it. Very respectfully, yours, A. D. BACHE,

Superinlen<lcnt Uuiu:d St.ates Coast Survey.

Hon. TaoMAS CoRWlN, . Secretary ef elw

Treasury.

CoAsT SunvEv 01~FICE, Wasltington October 21 1 1861. DEAR Sm: In reply to your letter of this morning, I beg leave to say that I think no doubt can exist in the mind of uny ~crson acquainted with the fo.cts of the case, as to the great necessity to commerce of a beacon on. the Rebecca shoals. 'l'he passa.g.e between the Marquesas keys and the Tortu~as is a great thoroughfore for vessels bound into the Gulf of Mexico. By ta.king this passa~e the tirp.e to ports in the gulf is shortened more than the mere distance cut off, sin(le the current is thereby avoided sooner. To sail vessels .this is, in light or head winds, of the greatest impor· · tance. 'l'he shoals which lie in this passage a.re very du.ngerous, and there is now no mark for the111. For want of some such mark, scarcely a day passes without many vessels running a great risk of injuiy or loss. The beacon of .which I su.w a dmught.i1.1 your room wo?Jld undoubtedly stand; the plan cofllbining great strength with little. si1rfo.ce~ . Any beacon put on the Rebecca shouJs should be built, as the one you propose, with reference to its ultimate conversion into. ·a light-house. I woulcl prefor, however, that the whole structur.e should· be of iron, rather than part wood. With a given strength, iron offors so mucp less ~urfuce to the wind . or sea, and it is of so much greater durability, thu.t th.e increused cost of iron is by no mcruw commensuru.te with its advantages. Very resp~~tfully, your obedient servant,
L~nant U. S. N., and Assistant Coast Sttt-vcy.

·

JOHN UODGEUS,

F. H.

GERDES,. Esq.,

United States Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 36.
Report ef Lieut,enant Commanding 0. P. Pattm·son, United Sta.tea fi.a~y, to tlte Superintendent ef tlu: Coast S1trvey, on buoys and beacons for en:. trance to Mobile bay.
Co.AST
Su1tVEY OFFICE,

. A11gust 20, 1849. SIR: 'The following report Upon the location, &c., for buoys and beacons tor the entrance t9 Mobile bo.y is i·espectfolly submitted:

500

S. Doc. 3.
Buoys.

1. A buoy, or, far better, a boat-buoy, with a heavy bell, just outside the bar, in eight and three-quarters fathoms, soft bottom, with Sand Island light-house bearing north 22° west, and distant from the bar one mile. A buoy is necessary at this place at all. times, but mt,1ch more so during the thick, hazy, and foggy weather, prevailing nearly through the most active season, when a bell would be of great benefit. 2·.' A buoy off the south end of West Bank,·in twenty-five feet water, with Sand- Island light-house bearing south 11° 30' west, distant 1.78 milf>, on a range of Mobile light-house, on West Umbrella 'free. · 3. A buoy:offthe north end of West Bank, in forty-eight feet water, with buoy 2 bearing south 11° 30' west, in range with Sand Island light-house, distant 1.68 mile, and Mobile light-house bearing south 55° 30' east, distant 1 mile. The line joining buoys Nos. 2 and 3 will dear West Bank. · 4. A buoy off the southwest end of Middle Ground, in twenty-five feet water, with Mobile light·house bearing south 28° SO' tast, distant 1.66
- 6. A buoy· on the northeast edge of West Bank, ',opposite to the southeast end of the Middle Ground, :with buoy 4 bearing south 42° 30' east, distant 1.82 mile. '1.'he line joining buoys Nos; 3 anu 5 will · clear the northeast·edge of West .Bank. . 6. A. buoy on the twefve:{eet spot (northeast end) of the Miudlc Ground. · · · · · 7., A buoy on tlie south~c:!st point of the spit, in nin~foet water. , These bu·oys should beJarge, and· of such constrJ.tct10n as to be seen some distance; and of such form, and so colored, as to· be known when seen in foggy weather, and to point out on which side they are to be passed: .The system adopted for this J?Urpose should be based upon the principles prop:os~d by the late Lieutenant G. M. Bache, Umted States navy, in a report upon the buoys of Long Island sound.

mile.,..

·

.

·

. ·

.·

.

·

Beacons-Entmnce to Mobile

&y. .

l. A beacon on Sand island, with the light-hous~·bearing north 22° west, distant ~46 foct. To cross the bar with·. beacon on the lighthouse. · 2. A beacon on Sand island, with light-house bearing south 83° west, distant 146 feet, and beacon 1 bearing riouth 11° west, distant 250 foet, SQ that beacon 2, in range of beacon 1, shall clear the west bank. . · 3. A beacon on Revenue point, the south end of east bank. This ):>13.acon would bear nearly the same relation to this entrance that the !!'.Rower beacon" bears to that of New York. ~:~,A. beacon on Mobile point, with the light-house bearin8' south 34° east,'1'£tl1stant 140 fee~, near the water, and on the range of the black barrel over the chimney of the fram:e-house on middle of light-house ; to lead through the channel between the southwest point of the Middle Ground and northeast edge of West 'Bonk. 0 6. A beacon on Mobile point, with the light-house bearing north 46

S. Doc. 3.
301 east, distant - feet; and beacon .4: bearing north 16° 30' east, di$tant 240 feet; so that beacon 5, on beacon 4, shall clear east bank, and beacon 5, on light-house, shall lead into the east end of Sand Island channel. .I would propose that beacons 1 and 4 have red lights, and beacons 2 and 6 white lights. Flashing and fixed lights would ·do better, ·but arc more expensive. It would not be necessary to light beacon 3, and it would be an advantage. It would not be required to see these beacons more than three-anda-hulf miles; therefore, arcs of single reflectors (or, better, the Arg.nncl burner, with a single wick) would be sufficient; und they need not ~e over twelve or fifteen feet m height, made strongly, of rough wood·· · Beacons 2, 3, and 5 should be black; beacon 2, because it would show against the sky, and to distinguish it from beacon 1, (as in red and white lights, flashed, &c. ;) beacon 3, because it shows Jl&'ainst the sky; beacon 5, because it shows against the sky, and to clistmguisb it from beacon 4.. Reel would probably be a better color than black. Beacon 1 should be black (or red) on the southeast side, ns it woul~ show against .the ,white of Sand 1sland light-house, and white on the north side; to distinguish it from beacon 2. Beacon 4 should be white, :is it would show against the grccri glacis of the fort, und to disti1:1guish it from beacon 5. 'l'hese beacons could be re-erected and kept lighted at a small expense·; and no additional assistance would be required to the light-house keepers to keep them up. A buoy on the northwest end of the northwest Pelican shoal, and a beacon on Dauphin island, so J.>laced that a bearing upon it '\\'.Otild be the course into Pelican pass from outside, would be very useful to. the mail-steamboats between New Orleans and Mobile during the wi~ter mon{bs, when th~ nort~1 win~s prevail:, -,tpd the water is .too low f~r them to use Grant's. 'pass, . . · the ms1de route. . At present the marks for this entrahc(:l are very inferior; those for the W' est Bank can scarcely be called such at all; and the mark lending through between the Middle Grounds und the no1theast edge of We~t Bank is of the rudest kind, s1.pall, and during hazy weather can ~carcely be seen, except with the sun to the west ward. In foggy or thick weather, though knowing themselves off the bar, from the soundings and bottom, yet these cannot give their position with sufficient accuracy to allow the pilots to C!,'oss the bar, wf1ich ·a bell-buoy would enab\e them to do with great ease. The entrance to this bay, through which passes a yearly commerce of twenty millions, has no other marks or safeguards than the two light-houses, which nre very inferior to the . third order of French lights. I would therefore respectfully urge the 13reat necessity of calling the early attention of the department to these buoys and beacons. I will merely state, that during the past year $40,000 worth of property has been lost on or neur the bar, uud $20,000 nnd upwards .has been paid for salvage; and this, ~n the opinion of all, for want of good marks to clear the dangers. These amounts I will forward as soon as they a.re obtained from the

'S. Doc. 3.
agent of tqe underwriters at Mobile, who promised to forward them fo me. The precise amount ofloss and salvage, however, is over $60,000. Very respectfully, your obedient_servant, , C. P. PATTERSON, Lieutenant Commanding, and A.tsistant Coast Survey. Professor A. D. BAcHE, Superintendent United States Coast Survey. APPENDIX No.
R.~ort
~.6.

of Lieutenant Commanding O. P. Patterson, United States navy, w the Superinterz,,dent of the Cotist Survey, on buoys/or <Jat and Ship Island harbors.
CoAsT
SURVEY OFFICE,

Wasltington, August 20, 1851.

Sm: The following reJ?ort upon the location, &c., of buoys for Cat
and Ship Island harbors .1s res:pectfully submitted: . . 1. A buoy just outside of Ship Island bar, in twenty-three.feet water, h<trd; sandy bottom, with the west ~nd of Ship ·island bearing north 53° east, to cross the bar in that course. · .

2. A buoy off the east end of Spade-fish shoal, (off north spit of Cat island,) in sixteen feet water, soft bottom, with Cat Island light-house just on with north point of north spit. 3. A buoy on northeast edge of Cat Island bar, with the west end of Ship; island bearing north 66° east, distant six miles, south end of south si>ifof Cat island ~earing no[th 71° we~t, distant t-w:o and a half miles; a:id Sand HiUbea.ring north 5° west·. ·. . . A buoy at the .southeast end of Cat Island ohapnel, in eighteen feet water, soft bottom, with south '"end of south spit bef1:ring 11 Q 30' west, distant one and a half sb that a course of' south 71° west, distant two and one-fi,fi:h miles, between 'beacons 3 and 4, shall lead through the cha.nnel..over the bar. _ .6. A buoy on the· north side of Cat Island channel, near th~ no1thwest end of the mud-hole, eighteen feet water, har!l bottom, with the south point of south spit bearing north 73P · east, distant one ,and on~-third m.ile; and Cat Island light-house bearing north 36° west, distant four miles. · .. · 6. A buoy off Potato Hill, with Cat Island light-house bearing north 6°. west, distant two and a half miles. This buoy should be placed off the southwest point of Potato Hill, in eighteen feet water. · 7. A buoy off the east end of Pistol shoal, in eighteen feet water, with Cat Island light-house bearing north 24° west, distant two and twothirds miles; and the northwest point of Isle au Pied bearing south 42 11 east, distant one and two-thirds mile. ,J;~, ,A buoy off the north edge of Pistol shoal, in sixteen feet water, with Cat Island light-house bearing north 62° east, distant three miles; and buoy No. 7 bearing south 71° east, distant one and a half mile. · ' 9. A buoy off the west end of Pistol shoal, in eighteen feet water, with Cat Island light-house bearing north 52Q east, distant four and 'fl

4:

miler

·S. Uoc. 8.
half tnil~s; and buby No. 8 bearing north 700 east, distant one and a half mile. The want of land-marks makes the necessity of so great n number of buToyls. · · commerce of t l1e coast w1'11'.. · d emand greater ie mcreasmg I m time, facilities for navigation, in several beacons and an increased number of buoys; but the buoys named above are deemed sufficient for present purposes. "fhe importance of the channel south of _Cut island, through whjch ~ large ~t10n of the smaller trnde to und from New Orleans must pass, ap.d ot Ship Island harbor, as one of refoge, will be strongly folt as this trade increases, which it is rapidly doing. Very respectfully, yours, C. P. PATTERSON, Lieutenant Commanding, and Assistant Caast Survey. Pro£ ..l. D. BACHE, · · Superiutendent.

APPENIHX No. 37.
Letter of tlic S1tperintendent o/ tltc Ooast Suri-cy to James E. Saunilers, csq., cf Mobile, communicating 8aili11g directions /01· !f.orn:.lsland 11ass.

U. S.
DEAR

CoAs·T SpRyE~ OFFICE,

I addressed letters..on the sul!ject to tilp"Rss1stnnts engaged on the Coast Survey in the ,locality embraced in your inquiries. Answers to those letters I have just received, and with ple11sure communicate to you such information as the operations of the Coast Survey enable me to furnish. I wish that t~a~ infor!Dation 'Yas. mote <l,efinite; but the'hydrographiettl survey of M1ss1ss1pp1 sound 1s as yet' mcomplete, nnq that at O:rand bay bus not yet been commenced. When the latter is made, it is poasible, though not pr9bq.ble, thn.t better water may be discovered in th~t bay than indicated by ·present information. . · · · To pass through Hctm Island pass, brins- Roun~ Islnnd light-house te range about 100 yards over the east end of Horn island, and the woods on Petit Bois island to boar E. ,ZN. There are hero about four fathoms of water, whence a north course will take a vessel over the bar in not less than fourteen .foet water, passing close to the spit of Horn islnncl, (wit:hia 100 yards,) after passing three-quurters of a. mile inside of Horn islaµdt or until Hound Island lig-bt-houso bears WNW., stand east, (to avoid the shoal of La Grande Butturo,) until the west end of Grund Batture island beurs a.bout N. by W. Along this line there a.re from eighteen to twenty feet wnter. A NNE. course will then take u vessel to the mouth of Grund boy; or a direct co.urse may be made for Point aux Pines, until opposite the mouth of Grand bay, (the water graduully shoaling to eleven fo~t,) which lies between two spits, (bare at low water,) and is about three hundred yardi! in width. Across the bar, at the entrance

· . · ,Wus!tingt01i, May 27-, 1661. · Sm: Upofithe receipfrof Y:S~&~~mmuhic~tiori. of Match 21st,

S~

·Doc. 3.

of Grand bay, nine feet water can be carried at high tide. Inside tbe b.ar the water suddenly deepens to four fathoms, and thence gradually shoals to the mouth of Heron bayou, which, I presume, is the "cr~ek" to which you refor. At the mouth of the bayou there are three feet at high water ; but a continuous stron~ north wind will so depress the water in the bay as, at such times, to leave the mouth of the bayou bare at low water. There is no bar of hard bottom at its mouth, the whol(l being a muddy tlat, through which scarcely any appearance of a ch!mnel can be traced. · , There is no difficulty or danger in the navigation to the eastward of Grand Batture shoal, the bottom being smooth and even, (soft mud,) and shoaling gradually to "Isle aux Herbes." In beating against a hard wind between Grand Batture shoal and Petit Bois island, the lead will always indicate:a.n approach to the shoal, which is of hard mud, while the.bottom is elsewhere soft and sticky. I trust thanhe ·preceding conveys the information sought by your inquiries, and shall be gratified if it prove to be of any service to you. Yours, respectfully, &c.; A. D. BACHE, S11perintendcnt United States Ooaat Survey. JAMES E. SAUNDERS, Esq., Mobile. APPEND IX No. 38.

of

Report of tlte

Sup~rintendent pfiftlte Coast SurvCIJ to· tlie Secrtta1'1j of t"e Trepsury ?n ligltt-houscs· i~ G,alvc.ston .bay, w~tli a "'!'.~ort of Licute11ant Comma'Nling Cra-ven, United Sffites nam;, assi1tant tti toast survey,
CoAST SuRVEY OFFICE,

;lune 17, 1861. SIR: I h11.ve the honor to rcl?ort in relation to the light-houses in GaJr.. veston bay, for which appropriations are made in the act of March 3, 1861, and in relation to which preliminary surveys have been required by the department. The lights are numbered 30, in the lists heretofore tr(tnsmitted, and renewed in my communication .0£-tl1e 13th instant. The three pr,oposed lights are required for the navi&'ation of Galveston bay; and their relation to each other is ·shown ori tile annexed chart by the positions marked "Half-Moon shoal," "'Red F'ish bur," and "Clopper's bar." The detailed charts show the locations more particularly of the lights at Clopper's bar and Red Fish bar, and the cbaracter of the navigation of the bay, the purposes of which they are to subserve. For details in regard to the lights I refer to the report of Lieutenant Commanding A. M. Craven, United States navy, ussistaat in the coast survey, which accompanies this rep.Ort. · . I concur with Lieutenant Craven in recommending a light-house as placed on the chart, at Clopper's bar; also in recommcndinf! a light· house placed as on the chart, at Red Fish bar. I am of opmion that the sites at Red Fish bar and at Half-1\foon shoal should each be examined by a competent engineer, in reforence to the doubts expressed by Lieutenant Craven as to the stability of the foundation, or that an ade"'

·r.

s: Doc.· a.
quate guarantee should be obtained to secure the government against loss should a contract be made for the construction of these li~ht houses. If this examination, which should he accompanied by borm~s to ascertain the character of the substrata, should prove satisfactory m its results at either of the sites, or if an adequate guarantee should be obtained in regard to the structures, then I would recommend the con· struction of a light-house on screw piles at Red Fish bar, and at HalfMoon shoal. While the reasons given by Lieutenant Craven for placing a light-boat near Half.Moon shoal, instead of a light-house, show that caution is necessary, they ·are not, in my mind, conclusive against the construction of the li~h~-house.1 as ~he shoal appears to be composed of · sand and shells, and ism the mtenor of the bay. Solid structures, which will obstruct the water way,~e not at all adapted to the two upper positions in the bay. The lights should be all of the harbor class. A small, fourth-order bay-light will suffice for each. The " light-houses" are required by law to be of the "third class." The lights need not be more than sixteen feet above ~he surface of the water to answer the purposes required of them. . · Lieutenant Craven recommencf.S the pla.cing of a buoy off Dollar point, for which there is no appropriation yet made. . · Very respectfully, yours, . A. D. BACHE, Superintendent United States Coast Survey. Hon. WM. L. HonGE, Acting Secretary of the Treasu1-y.

Report Lieutenant Commanding T. AIJM. Craven, Unit~ States navy, assistant in tlte coast survey, to tl1c Superintendent, in refhtion to lighthouses in Galveston bay, 'J'eaxu.
UNITED STATES ScHOONER

ef

Monnrs,

Galveston Bay, May 13, 1861· . Sm: In obedience to your instructions of April 2, I have made .nn ~ amination of Clapper's bar, Red Fish bar, and Half:.~on .shoal, and send you a sketch of the bat~· on a scale of ·r0~ 00 · · Half-Moon shoal I have lmd down on a general chart of the bay of 2 0 010 0 0 · As there is already ii considerable trade curried on with the upper part of the bay, lights are very much needed at each of these pomts. I have to report as follo'\\)s: 1st, Clopper's bur. At the mouth of San Jacinto river, on this bat, I found 4.6 foet, and it is situated at a point where the channel makes a very short bend. '.The bur is short, and of hard sand, a quicksand, liable to occasional shifis. I would recommend that a light of the third class be placed on the point of the sand spit, which I have marked " Light:.' At this point it would guide vessels clear of the shoal, making off from Mesquit knoll, and would also indicate the tum in the channel, us it should be situated so that vessels might pass it close on their port side.

·s. Doc. 3.
'rhe light-house should be built on iron piles, well sunk beyond the .sand. From this place to the Red ~ish bar t~ere are no obstructions, the soundings bemg very regular, eight and mne feet. 2d, Red Fish bar.-At this place a light is of such importance that ·th.ere has been one placed here by private enterprise-the trading ve~ sels paying an annual subscription. The lip,ht stands on the key indicated in the triangulation as "Middle Pass.' I would suggest that a· light be placed on the east end of a small . key, ~ituated about tw.o bundr~d and twenty metres ESE. of the pres.·ent light. 4s you will perceive by the chart, a better range can be hf;ld for runnmg through the channel than at present. On this bar there are at low ti~s 4.5 quicksand. '!'here is better water in the chan!lel SW. of-01e li$ht-house, but the channel is so crooked and so very nar.row that it is' .rarely used. The light-house on .Red Fish bar should be on iron spikes, sunk to a good depth ; and if the light has an elevation of twenty-five feet it will be qmte sufficient. · '.rhe'light at present there is not elevated more than eighteen feet above the water. I have made an_..~xal'J).ination of a shoal off Dollar point, 6n which there are three and a htilf feet water, .and would suggest that a buoy be placed on its east side, in nine feet, which will give muddy bottom. . · 3d, Half-Moon shoal lies directly in. the channel principally used by: trat;ling vessels and steamers; and I.have found on it oncfoot. It is of small extent, and has a channel between it and the shore of seven fact. ~ast of it the water is nine. all,~ tert feet, and very regular. This bank is co~I'osed of.sand ond shells~ I,w_o.uld recommend that at Half-Moon shoal a sm. al.I lisht-vessel be illaced; a common bay sloGp of forty tons wottld be's.u.fjic1ent. She sh3'111tt be coppered, as the worm is very destructive .her~7 and her anchor should have but one fluke. She should . be placed in ten-foe.t Water, to the eastward of the shoal. The light placed at an elevation of twen.ty feet above the deck would be sufficie.nt; and lights for each of these should be of the third class. I recommend a light vessel at this shoal, as it is my belief that a light-house built here would be undermined by the current, nnd the sand, thus e'Yi, away, deposited in another place, thus rendering the light ~seless.WJ believe, too, that the same difficulty will be encoun,. tered in a permanent structure at Red Fish bar, where changes frequently take p~ace, but am not prepared to say whether the substratum will give sufficient stabilit,Y to the piles. I can best illustrate my mean.. ing by calling your attention to the fitct that the steamer wrecked in the channel several years a~o (and the'~position of whose cylinder is given on the chart) was origmaily in five-feet water; the tides have cut away the sand to about twelve feet, all about the ·wreck. Very respectfully, your obedient servant,· . T. AUGS. CRAVEN, · Lieutenant Commanding, Assistunt U. S. Coast Survey. Professor A. D. BAcrrn:, S·uperintcndent United States Coast Survey, Washington,

.S. Doc..3.
APPENDIX No. 39.

.inftf

Report efthe Superintendent of tlw United States Coast Surtiey to t}ie Secretarv ef tlte Tro~$u_ry, recommending a ligltt-bot!t and bi!oy at Aransas
Pass, and transmitting tlie report of tlw examination, b11 Licut~11ant Com· manding !ff. A. M. Crqven, United States navy, as;istmit in tlie coast survey,',':

Co.AST SunvEY STA'rION, , Mount Pleasant, Maine, July 17, 1851. Sm: I have the honor to report, in conformity with the law approved March 3, 1851, and the instructions o( the department, that the examination of the necessity for a light:-house at Aransas .J?,~!i.· Texas, has been made, and I enclose, herewith, the report of Li~eutenant Commanping T. A. M. Craven, United St~tes .navy, assistant in th~ coast survey, the officer by whom the exammat10n has been mude, .with ,the accompanying sketch of a reconnaissance of the locality. . .~·· · · It appears clearly, from this report, that the facility to .n. avigation proposed in the appropriation bill is not '' most suitable for the exi~ency which tJxists," but that it. is expedient to place a. li~ht-boat of forty tons, with a harbor-light apparatus, instead of the light-house. Such a light-boat will subserve botl1 the general nnd local wants of trade and navigation, and its positioncan liie cha~ged to accommodate it to the changing character. of the .eqtr~e. ~he boat .can .be securely moored. I therefore recommend E!-.su1tab!e light-:boat for Ar~a.s vass; ipstead of the proposed light-house. · , . . . . . . , .~ . . ·I would respectfully call the .. attention of the department to the fact · stated by Lieutenant Commarn:Ung"'Craven, that there are no buoys in Aransas pass ; als9 his views· ill relation to. the position of the Galveston light-boat. Very respectfully, yours, A. D. BACHE, Superinte.1~dont U. Stu,tcs Quast Survey. Hon. WM. L. HonGE, Acting Secretary of tlie Treasu1:!f.

'QN1·rEn STATES 80HOONER Monnrs, · Galveston Bay, June 2,1.,, 1Sl>1. ·Sm : By the extr~ord~nary }nclem;ncy of the season, I have be.en delayed in the c:cammat~on of Ar'ansas pllss (as required by your m>Structions of A pnl 1) until the last week. I now enclose you my sket~h ofthe pass, and have to re~ort as follows: From t!m frequent and n!p1~ ~lrnnges of the l>11r, (winch I will indi~ Cate in this report,) I .am of opnu?n that a ligbt,.h0t~se cn!1~ot h1r built at this place, m a smtable location, with any certamty. of its standing five years. · · . The point in my reconnaissance, designnt1;1d. as " old range," was, in ~846, witl1iii one ltundr~d and twenty yards <f tlte cham~c?, und the "rnnge" ttself was a wusli. It is now three hundred und flity metres from the

S. DQc. 3.
beach, and upwards of half a mile from the main channel. The " cair stan" was planted in 1849 for heaving off a vessel which had grounded · in this channel: . '£he point I have marked as "E range," was formerly a pilot's range, and fifteen mop.tbs since was about fifty yards from the beach in the channel way; it is now three hundred and forty metres from the beach. You will see from the above, that the po1nt of St. Joseph , has, for years, been making rapidly o:gt to the southward, and as it encroaches on the channel, the opposite point of Mustang island wears away with equal rapidity. All of the poirit of St. Joseph, from the "old range" to the spit at the narrows, is a loose sandy flat, which has been entirely formed since 1846, and on which vegetation has commenced. I found an unusuaL(li;:ipth of water on the bar-9~ to 10 foet-which may be accounted by the stron~ and continued southeast winds of this'season; ordinarily there are from 7 to 8 feet. The harbor is a good one, and is a place of some little coasting trade, there being one or two settlem~nts up the bay. I c;onsider it of more importance as a harbor of re[ugc than as one of any present commercial advantage, and am o( opmion that a light is very desirable at this place. A small light-vessel offorty tons and light draught may be anchored inside the south breakers, in 2~ fathoms, in good holding ground, and well sheltered from any storms, the bar forming a compiete breakwater. A light of fourth class will be sufficient. T}ie vesser should be well coppered. · · · I bave to report that the buoys, which were placed on the bar, not havin¥ ~~,fjicieht clu.iin, have lop,g since parted and gone adrift. There are at present no chann'el marks whatever. Th¢ soundings on the sketch are!ifxpressed in fact, as there is much iriegl:ilarity of bottom. I have thus guarded against mistakes. · The breakers are long spits of sand which are constantly changing with every storm, so that ranges for running in are altering every five · or six months. In connexion with this subject I have to report, that after a careful examination of the matter, I may say, confidently, that the light-ship at Galveston, in her present locat10n, 1s of scarcely any use to sea-going vessels. Sl. .s anchored nearly .tltrcc miles inside tlw'uar, and knowing the' approaclll as well as I do, I consider it unsafe' to run for it at night, because of the difficulty of seeing the liglit at a safe distance outside ; and, in consequence, a sailing vessel not "having hold of the light," .c.:annot ascertain her position, and ha.ving no guide to her movements, ~.liable to be swept to the south"tlX~ and westward by the current. .. . . I know that it has been urged ~t :the present location of the light'vessel is of great advantage to coasters, as being a~ the junction of the three channels. ' T~ coasting trade, however, is small, and is carried on in vessels .not exceedingJmr or five feet draught. These vessels a.lone, save one or two steamers of light draught, use the south channel; they could, most of them, run over any part of the shoal forming the bar without danger ; the .sea steamers use the main channel ; the north or cylinder chaµnel is only used by two or three small craft trading with the ~abine,

for

S. 'Doc. 3.
which might safoly pass anywhere over the shoals. These coasting vessels, therefore, hardly require a light, particularly where, in giving it to them, the interest of the external commerce suffers. · Very respectfolly, your obedj,~nt servant, T. AUGS. CRAVEN, Lieut. Com., Assistant U. S. Coast Survey. Pro£'A. D. BACHE,

and

Superintendent U. 8. Coast S1tr1;ey, Wasltington, D. O.

APPENDIX No. 40.
Tribute
,

Of respect to

tlte mcmo'l"IJ of Lieutenant Comma.ndi1J.g Wm. P. ,Mc-

.Artltur, United Sta.tea navy, assistant in tlw coast sttrvey.

· Intelligence having reached Washington city of the death, at Puna ma, on the 22d December last, of Lieutenant Commanding Wm. P. McArthur, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, the civilians and officers of the army and navy on coast survey service met nt the office on Wednesday, F'ebruary 8, 1851, to pay the tribute of respect · due to his memory. :' The meeting being called to order, On motion of Lieutenant Chus. H. McBluir, United States navy, seconded by Lieutenant Maxwell Waodh.ull, United States navy, Alexander Dallas Bache, LL. D;, Superintendent, wa.s palled to the chair, and Lieutenant Thornton A. Jenkins, United States navy, appointed sccretw:y. . · . ,. . · · . Profossor Bache addressed t~e meeting as follows: W c are met here, us you all know, to. pay a mclanclioly uihute of friendship und respect to one who was deur to us ull-dear us a brother to many of us. · Instead of greeting his arriva) among us, as ·WC had fondly hoped, in health-in the foll Hush of success-we meet to·mourn over his loss from our band. · . · The work which h13 accomplished will live forc'Ver. Surrounded by circumstances the most difficult, perhaps, which ever tried the constnncy, the judgment, the resources of any Iiydrogrnpher, he ·mquishecl circumstances·. His reconnaissance of the western coast, from Monterey to Columbia river, und. his. preliminary survey there, were 1nacle in spite of desertion and CVGn r.nuJiny-in despite of the inadequacy of 1neans to meet the truly extraordi,nnry eircumst1mccs of the country. Happy that in his olficers he hadJdends devoted to . him and to their dutics-cspecialljr happy in the officer next to him in the responsibilities of tho work. . Prostrated by .an attack of fever of a ma.lignnnt type, contracted whil~ preparing his v~ssel for sea, Lieutenant McA1thm:i nevertheless, persisted m volunteering for the charge of a hydrogrup~nc party .on ~he western coast. A subsequent relapse did not abate his determmat10n to enter as a pioneer uFon this arduous service-trying u.like to his powers of mind and body. Steady in the midst of excitement, he laid his plans in the way to command success. Seizing the peculiar wants· of the hydrography of that coast, he applied. all his energies to supply

S. DoC: 8/
them. The ·gratitude of his fellow-citizens, then, is already his-the praise of the new country, the resources of which he has aided in developing. . He has been called away Just n.s his wishes were realized, ampl~ means .furnished, and the worst difficulties overcome. In his letter and rerort he urged strongly the necessity for enlarg~d appropriations, and for a steam vessel fur the hydrography. 'The l1.1;~t letter from this office brought him news that both his wishes were gratified, and called him borne to make the enlarged arrangements for continuing his work. The arrival of Mr. Cutts, with instructions as late as the, berrinning of October, confirmed the necessity of his return, and h~ to~ passage in the steamer Oregon, commanded by his friend, Lieµtennnt Pattersqn. An attack of dysentery prostrated him completely, and from this, in spite of the best medical attendance-of such nursing arid attendance as onlythe circumstances to which I referred could insurche rallied but for · a time, and sank to his final rest before he could be landed at Panama. His remains were consigned to a foreign soil, to be brought, let us hope, to his country, where all his affections centred. He has not.lived in vain. His name. will ever be bright in the annals of our survey-whether in the more usual labors on the Atlantic coast, or as the pioneer on the shores of' the .Pacific-always advancing as life advanced-the last his crowning wor1t . Profossor Bache having concluded his remarks, Lieutenant Washington A. Bartlett, Urtited ·states navy, arose and said· . Mr. Chairman and gentlemen: A,fter the appropriate and feeling remarks of the chairman, it is unnecessary for me to add more than to say that when I left Captain McArthu:r on the western coast he was in excellent· health and buoyant spirits, .in vfow of what had been done, and what he h9pcd yet' to accomplish. It whs my good fortune to be long associated with him, and that association caused me to love him as a brother. I-will not detain you, bti:t ·offer the following resolutions for your consideration : . · . 1. Resolved, That the civilians. and .officers of the army and navy engaged in. the. United States Coast Survey, now assembled in Washington, h:ave received, with feelings of deep emotion, the melancholy intelligence of the death of Lieutenant Commanding Wm. P. McArthur, United States Aivy, assistant in the coast survey; and that, in his sudden and unex~ectcd decease, the .navy h11s lost one of itS ~ost gallant and accomplished officers, and the ooast survey one of its most . , · zealous and efficient laborers. 2. Resolt!ed, That the successful reconnaissance of the western coast of.the United States, from MontereytQ\Columbia river, and the preliminary survey of the entrance to the Columbia-accomplished under the most peculiar and extraordinary difficulties-while they are proofS of his unconquerable energy, determination and skill, have forever identified the name of Wm. P. McArthur with the progress of the republic in the West. 8. Resolved, That we most sincerely sympathize with the bereaved and afRicted family of our generous and warm-hearted friend in their irreparable loss, and commend the widow and orphans to the gratitude of the republic, to whose service tbe husbund and father was so ardently devoted throughout his life.

S: Doc.

s.

·4. Resolved, That Professor A. D. Bache, SuEerintendent United States Coast Survey; Brevet Mnjor J. J. Stevens, United Stutes En~i neers; Lieutenant M. Woodhull, United States navy; Mr. J. J. Ric.ttetts, United States Coast Survey; und Passed Midshiprnan H.. M. Cuyler, United States navy, be a committee to take the.necessary measures to have erected, in the Con~ressionul Burying Ground, a s~1hable monument, commemorative of the services and virtues of the deceased. 6. Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated to the Navy and Treasury Departments, with a request that they be placed on the files; and also to the family of the deceased; and that they be publisheq. 6. Jlcs~lvcd, Th~t the offic~rs of the co~st survey wi.11 wear a badge of mourning for tlurty dnys, m further testimony of their reg~rd for the memory.of the late Lieutenant Commanding Wm. P. McArthur. Mf~jor Stevens, in seconding the·resolutions, addressed the meeting as follows : · I rise, Mr. Chairmnn, in the name of one of the co-ordinate services associated on duty here, to pay ,tt .tribute to the memory of Lieutenant McArthur.. I can add nothing .~o t;lle rcmn.rks t!mt have already been made. I simply propose to pay a. ti'ibute ot feclmg and respect. It was not my fortune to know Lieutenant McArthur personally, but I feel that I knqw him through his works. They hold up his character as worthy of nll respec,t. and admiration. In prosecuting his labors on the Pacific shore, he e~1ibited a constancy, un energy, and a rare forQe of command, which enabled him to triump}~, over almost insuperabl~ difficulties. These qualities would have madQ him conspicuous in any career. He possessed all the· elements of the heroic spirit. Trials. which bowed down the strength of strong men, gave his foob.le frame n}most superhmn~.n strength i. and he a~co1nplished, ~n the' J.lljst of swkness and physical deprcss10n-of mutmy and desert1on-lubM's thn.t those most highly favored by health n.nd appliances would have shrunk from. His example appeals to us with irresistible force. l'Iow can we yield to despondency, witnessing his lion heart accomplishing its great purposes-giving vigor to a worn-out frame, and snatching success from the elements of defont. 1'1cArthur wa.H an ornumen~ to both services with which he wns connecte<l-to that larger service, the profossiqn of his youth, in which he took such pride, and that other service, to which his maturer years have been applied. He has, in the wor<ls of the resolution, forever identified his name with the progress of the republic in the West. It has gone into history, and will henceforth be .associated with those of Decatur u.nd of Perry. .. · The resolutions ·having been a.greed to unanimously, the meeting adjburned aine die. A. D. BACHE, Cliairman.
THORNTON

A.

JENKINS,

Secreta1'Y·

S. Doc. 3.
APPENDIX No. 41.
Report of the Superintendent of the Ooast Survey to the SecretariJ of tlie Treas'ttry, showinf5 the most suitable site for a tight-house at Point Conception, California.
COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

March 13, 1861. Sm: I transmit herewith a sketch of Point Conception, California, furnished by the officer of the coast survey on that coast, for the purpose of showing the most suitable site for a light-house in that. vicinity. 'fhis is a steep, rocky point, projecting into the sea, 240 foet' high; at the pojnt selected for the site of the tower 286 foet broad, 033· feet to the pitch of the point; and the M'hole length of the projection: 832 feet. ·. · · · It has been ascertained, by a careful examination and inquiry, that the point Arguillo, to the northward, is not the best location. All who ha¥.e been consulted on the subject agre~. in recomm~nding the point marked on the sketch 0 as the bvt position for the hsht. It will be seen from the accompanying tracing of the coast of California, on either side of Point Conception, that it trends about NW. and SE. A firstordet seacoast light, with a lantern thirty or forty feet from the base of the tower, will be seen, under ordinary circuf9jtances, twenty-five to twenty-eight nautical miles. frqm the· deck of an ordinary merchant vessel. It is deemed highly important that this should be a light of the first order, according ·t<i> the European ~las~ification, illuminating two hundred and eighty degrees of .the horizon, to subserve all the purposes of navig&m. . · · 'I'he"i.ight on Point Conception should be made a revolving or flashing light, to enable the proper distinctions to be made in those on either · side, and nearest tq it. · Very respectfully, yours,

. A. D. BACHE, · , S1tperintendent U. S. Coast Survey. ·
Hon. THos.
CoRWIN,

Secretary

of the

Tr~asury.

APPENDIX No. 41, bis.
Report of tlte Superintendent of tlw United States Ootist SurVe1J to tlte Sec· r.~tary of !lte 'l;'reaaury, on the lat-itude and longitude of Point Oonceptum, Oalifarnia. ·
COAST SURVEY 0FFIClll,

March 22, 1861. · Sm: The latitude of the coast survey station at Point Conception, California, has been determined from observations by Assistant George

S.- J.?oc. 3.
Davidson, to be 34° 2G' 6G 11 north, and the longitude 120° 26' 611 , or in time Sh. Olm. 43s. west of Greenwich Observatory. Yours, very respectfolly,

A. D. BACHE,
Hon. W. L. HoDGE, Acting Secretary

Su11erintendcnt U. S. Coast Survey.

of th'e Treasury.

APPENDIX No. 42.
Letter of Superintendent of Coast Survey to Secretary of Treasurij, communicating a report of A. M~ Harrison, esq., sub-assistant in coast survey, on a site for a ligltt-lt01UJe on Point Pinos, near lv!onterey, California.
COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

March 14, 1851. Sm: I have the honor to transmit herewith a sketch of Point Pinos, near Monterey, California, the site recommended in the accompanying report .for the light-house near Monterey, for which an appropriation was made at the .._1st session of the 31st Congress. I concur in the recommendations contained ]n the report. 'l'hc choice of the site, between the three points designated, might be lefr to the engineer charged with the construction of the light-houses. . . · V cry rcspectfolly, yo~l's, A. D. BACHE, S1tpe1·intendent U. S. Coast Survey. Hon. W. L. Hona:m, Acting Secretary of tltc Treasury.

CAMP, Po1NT
DEAll

PINos,

NEAR MoNTEuEY, U1>PER CA1.1F01rnrA,

January 28, 1861. Sm: This report accompanies a 'tracing of the l)lune table n:ap .of Point Pinos! induding the extr:me cn<l of the pomt nn<l the. v1c1mty towards Pomt Cypress on one sit1e, and Monterey on tho other, on a scale of rohnr· It gives the ground in the region (~f the most suitable position for a light-house, showing its character, elevation, &c. Point P inos is a pine-covered, rock-bound pr~jcction of lund, extending in a N\V. direction from Monterey to the distnnco of about three miles, rising gradually from the water's edge, and, from its position, affor.cling complete shelter from the 8E. winds to vessels at anchor off the town. The whole shore of tho point from near Monterey to Point Cypress is very rocky, and, except in the calmest weather, there is a heavy surf from the swell of the ocean, rendering a landing in the boats exceedingly dangerous, if not impossible. I have marked upon the tracing three positions, (a., b, c,) in each of Which a light-house may be placed, ea.ch having its advantages. 33

614

S.

Do~.

3.

(a). as shown in the tracing, is in the pines, its advantage over the other two being its elevation; but, in order to be· seen to the seaward, and by vessels leaving the harbor, it will require a great deal of clear. · ing. The ground .is sandy and pretty firm. (b.) This position is in the small sand-hills. The site commanqs a fine view to seaward, and requires little if any clearing. · Judging from the nature of .the point, it is to be presumed that beneath the sand there is a rocky substructure for a foundation, altl~ough it may be at a considerable depth. .. (c) is the level surface of the rocks, covered with wild shrub. Its foundation is good, but it is cut off from the main shore at high-tide ; the distance being 103 metres (112.6 yards.) 'fhe islet is about 80 square metres (!:15 square yards) m area, and about ten feet above highwater mark. The main objections to it, as a. site for a light-house, con'Slst in its small size, its isolation from the main-land at high tide, and ari uncertainty as to how .long it will stand the force of the sea. It is exposed to the full violence of all seaward winds, and many of the rocks in the vicinity have been undermined and have fallen. It is also possible that in severe gales the sea washes over it. The distance at which the light from the lantern of a light-house 40 foet in height would be 'visible if placed on . (a) would be .... , ........·.......................... 13 miles. (b~ ..... do...................·.........·.......... 11 " from the south, round through the west, to north. · · The lin:e (x) shows the general run of the shore towardii! Monterey, and (y) towo.rds Point Cypress. I have before spoken of the difficulty of landing on the· point, but the town is only about three miles distant, and there is a good road run~ ning to the end of the point. · I<'ine spring-water can be obtained in the immediate neighborhood, and the land is sufficiently rich for the purposes of cultivation almost anywhere on tqe western side of the pomt. . There is a quarry of coarse limestone near the town, but whether suitable for building purposes or not I am not informed. If it is proposed to erect a fog-sigmil 'here, (and the fog is very frequent and thick in the winter,) there are many places ~n the rocks equally suitable for the purpose, as ma.y be seen by a reference to the map. I have inserted the true and the magnetic meridirin-.thc f~rmer given rne by Assistant Davidson, and the latter obtained approximately by the compass attached to my plune table. · Very respectfully, your obedient servant, · A. M. HARRISON. Sub-Assistant U. S. Coast Surv~y ·. Prof. A. D. IlACHE, Superintendent U.S. Coast Survey,. Washington, D. C.

*h~- ~~~~~ «i ~i;i·biiity ·;[ tl;; "1ight. if;~· ~~~~~~;l·~~~id ~e 1~ 0°
1

S. Doc. 3.
APPENDIX No. 43.
Report of the Supcrintende11.t. oJ the Coast Survey to the Secretm-y ef the Treasury, recommending a ligltt-}wuse at Point Loma, izcar San Diego,· California; with tlie report ef Sub-Assistant A. M. Harrison on the same.
COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

November 22, 1861. Sm: In conformity with the instructions of the Treasury Department, I have caused a survey to be made for the sight of a light-house at Point Loma, near San Diego, California, for which an appropriation was made by net of Congress approved September 28, 1860. I send herewith a sketch, showing the locality jroposed for the light, and its relations to the harbor of San Diego u.n its approaches; also, a subsketch, on a large scale, giving the character of the site more in detail. In a fow weeks an engraved harbor chart of San Diego will'be transmitted, to take the place of these sketches, or as supplement.m·y to them. 'l'he light which is recommended is one of the first order, or a s.ea-.. coast light, to be placed on the bluff in the position marked, in· a tower (say) twent;y: feet high. The range will thus be 31.7 ·statute miles, and the fight will be visible beyond the Cbronados, und over a sector of the horizon of about 187°. A small harbor-light is further recommended on Ballast point, li.t the place marked in the sketch, as a leading light up the bay. Its eleva. tion may be fifteen feet. I append the report of Sub-Assistant A. M. Harrison, by whom the plane table survey of Point Loma was made. 'l'he survey of the harbor was made by Assistant R. D. Cutts, of' tho- coast stirvey. . The considerable height of the point at which this light-house is to. be placed induc~d me to withhold the report of Mr. Hunison, und any recommendation concerning it, until I had consulted him as to the probability of interference from fog. He renffirms his opinion of the propriety of the site, after considering this objection; In recommending lights for the western coast, I have not. advised that any of them be revolving lights, except in the case of Point Conception, conceiving that at present, until facilities for repairs of machinery and the number of lights are increased, it is inexpedient und unnecessary to resort to such a distinction. Very respectfully, yours, A. D. BACHE, Superintendent United States Coast Survey. Hon. TnoMAS CoRWIN, Secretary ef the 'l'rcasury.
LA PLAYA, NEAR SAN

Dmao,

CALIPORNIA,

June 2, 1861. DEAR Sm: 'fhis report accompanies a tracing from the plane tRble map of the bay of San Diego, including P0int Loma, the proposed

616

s.
. .

Doc~

nto-o.

light-house site, and La Playa, (the

3. port of San Diego,) on

.

a scale of

Point Loma is a long, narrow strip of land, extending in a southerly direction about 2~ miles from the Playa, and is composed of a chain of abrupt and broken hills, varying from 200 to 400 feet in height, cut with deep, narrow, and in many places precipitous gorges. On the western side· the shore is perpendicular, and varies from twenty-two to ninety feet in height; while on the eastern shore of the Playa to Ballast point, (a narrow low spit, formed of large pebbles, running out from Point Loma, and forming the western side ot the entrance,) the shore is bluffy, and. not generally. as ~igh as the opl?osite one. 'l'o the sout? of Ballast pomt the shor.e is still bluffy, and .Increases gradually, until it reache.s th.e extn;me point. At this place the ~ills jut b?ldly upon the sea, formmg a very steep bluff, ·three hundred feet m height. The hills arc composed mainly of coarse modern sandstone, and are covered with a growth of low bushes, red wood, and artemisia, interspersed with three or four varieties of cactus. Landing is practicable, in calm weather, at almost any part of t~~;point; but the hills are so precipitous that it would be almost impossible to transport any building materials up 1heir sides. · . · · The position for a light-house, which I have marked uron the chart by a red circle, I re('.:mnmend for the reason of its superior elevation, the large view it commands to· seaward, its good foundation, and its level surface~ It is four hundred and twenty-two feet high. Tlie distance at which the rays of light would touch the horizon of the ocean from a light-house t"'.enty feet high, located at this site, would be thirty-two and four-tenths statute miles. · · It commands an extent of horizon to seaward of 187°. In· erecting a light-house on this point, th.e materials should be landed at 'the I>faya, and then. could be eti.sily carried to the point along the top of the range of hills. There is a path extending the whole distance, and, with a little cutting of the bushes, it could be mude practicable for mules. It would be necessary to bring the materials for building purposes from some other' port, as there is nothing in this region which could be turned to advantage. There is no water nearer than San Diego, five miles distant from the Play a. It is obtained from San Diego river, ancl brought down in casks. Some men are at pres.ent boring an Artesian well at tne Playa, but success is very doubtfol. The fond is not favorable for cultivation. . The entrance to the bay is so narrow, and Ballast point is so low, that I think a secondary light on the end of it would be advisable. The extremity of the point is composed of large, round pebbles, similar to our paving stones, and the foundation is quite hard. I hµvc ·marked the pomt" upon the tracing. Smee our stay here, fogs. have been frequent and heavy, and I think it would be advisable to place a fog-signal upon tlie bluff at the encl of the point.. If it is to work by the action of the waves, it could be

S. Doc. S.

517

placed uporr a reef running S. by W. ·from the end of Point Loma, where there is always a swell, even m the calmest weather. Respectfully submitted. A. M. HARRISON. Professor A. D. BACHE, Superintendent United States Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 44.
Letter of the Superintendent of the Coast Sw'vey to tltc Secretmy of the 'l.'reasury, transmitting tlte report of Sub-Assistnnt A. ltf. Ha.rrison, of a survey of Cape Disappointment, or Hancock, for loca.tion ~(a liglit-house, and communication of Lieutenant Bartlott, U. S . .N., assistant in coast survey, on same subject.

l\fE., September 29, 1851. Sm : I have the honor to transmit, in pursuance of the instructions of the department, a minute survey of Cape Disappointment, or. Hancock, at the entrance to Columbia river, Oregon, for.the location of the lighthouse for which appropriations have been made. 'I'o the report und sketch of Assistant A. M. Harrison I add a proof-sheet ofthe.preliminary survey of the entrance, to s?ow in a general. way the localities referred to. I have also annexed a report by Lieutenant Bartlett, U. S. navy, assistant in the coast survey,,in relation to this same light, which contains suggestions in reference to the kind of structure to be erected there. I approve the recommendations of Assistant Harrison of the site marked 0 on his map for the light-house, and of the elevation of forty feet, which he proposes for the hght. It should be a seacoast light of the first class, and will he visible nearly twenty-five miles. I would recommend that so much of the adjacent woods should be removed as will rern.ler the establishment secure from the near approach of fire. Very resp'ectfully, yours,
COAST SURVEY STATION, NEAR ALFRED,

A. D.
Hon.
THOMAS CoitwIN, · Secretary of tlw Treasury.

·BACHE,

· Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey.

Moutlt of. Colttmbia River, Oregon, July 2~, 1851. DEAR Sm: I send with this report n tracing of Cope Hancock, or Disappointment, on a scale of TOo-irn· It embraces the proposed lighthouse site and three miles of the shore. Ctt;pe Hancock, forming the northern point of the entr011ce to Columbia river, is a bold, nanow promontory of basaltic rock, projecting into the sea in a cu1 ve from the north around by the west to the south.

U.S.

CoAsTSURVEY STATION, CAPE HANCOCK,

618

S. Doc. 3.

, . The extremity of the cape is formed of a range of.hills, v:arying from one hundred and fifty to two hundred and eighty f~et in height, generally .narrow at the summits. On the outer faces these .hills are covered with rank, high,· thick grass and .weeds, arid slope abruptly to different . heights; then, falling perpendicularly, present .to the ocean an irregular wall of ro'ck, intersected at one or two points by deep inlets, into which the sea flows during flood tides. On the inner side the slope is more gradual, but in most places also steep, and from the top of the ridge down to the water's edge, covered with tall pines, and a dense and occasionally impenetrable undergrowth of bushes ; the salmon berry, fern, and salal being the principal kinds. The soil is rich, and covered to the depth of a foot, and in some places more, with a light, yielding carpet of decayed and decaying leaves and branches, the annual deposite of the trees and bushes above, The cape forms the western shore of Baker's bay, which affords good . anchorage in six and three fathoms.· The 'position which I think most advisable for the location of a lighthouse, and which I have marked upon the tracing by a black circle, I · recommend for the following reasons : Height. Although ninety-five feet lower than the hill upon which the observatory is situated, (which is the highest on the end of the cape,) I think it has the ad vantage from the fact that the fog banks, during their prevalence, frequently, and in fact generally, rest upon and above the f!ummits of the most elevated hills ; while those below are clear and unobscured. So I am informed by persons who sail in and out of the river. Light-house hill is one hundred and ninety-two feet high; Observatory hill two hundred and eighty-seven feet. Command to Seaward. The angle commanded to sAaward by a light placed as recommen~ed would be much greater than one on Observatory hill, unless the government chose to go to the expense of time and money in felling a large quantity of trees to the northward, and those, like all trees of Oregon, of no ordinary size. A person standing on the proposed site. commands a view to seaward of one hundred and thirty four degrees. Form. Upon the summit it is bro~der, and would requfre less digging and grading to secure a sufficiently large foundation. In fact a light-house could not be erected upon the narrow top of Observatory hill without a great deal of trouble and e:xpense on this account. In digging I find stone at the depth of two foet. The best point at which to land materials for building purposes is the little cove I have marked (~'a") upon the tracing. · A road which was cut for carrying up the observatory would suffice to get upol). Observatory hill; but the path between the Observatory and Light-house hill runs along a narrow ridge. I have marked it upon the tracing by a black line. I think it would be advisable to cut a road directly from the cove to Light-house hill, a distance of about 440 metres (481 yards.) - The cove ("a") in which our camp is pitched is a good position for a house, being, by the present path, fifteen minutes' walk from Lighthouse hill. A spring .of fine water runs in a continual stream from the rocks, a few metres from camp, and there is sufficient ground for a

s.

Doc.

·a.

IH9

small vegetable ·garden. A house once stood here, but ~vas destroyed by fire. · The site for a city has been laid out about two miles from the point, under the title of Pacific city. · The house which you se~ upon the tracing was erected oy the Hudson's Bny Company, and is occupied by a half-breed and his family. He has quite a good garden. · ·The distance at which a light, forty feet high, located at the site, would be visible, is twenty-five statute miles, neurly. Respectfully submitted by your obe!lient servant, . A. M. HAHRISON, Sub-Assistant Coast. Survey. Pro£ A. D. BACHE, ~up't U. S. Coast Survey, Wasltington.

Report ef Lieutenant Wasltington A. Bartlett, United States navy, assistant in coast survm;, to tlw Superintendent, in relation to a ligl1t-liouse at Gape Hancock, or Dis.appointment, entrance to Columbia river. · W ASHING'roN, November 29, .1850. Sm: In answer to your inquiries ns to the character of th.e lighthouse which should he erected at Cape Hancock, or Disappointment, at the mouth of the Columbia river, Oregon Territory, and for information as to the locality on which it should be placed, &c.I have the honor to state, that Cape Hancock, or Disappointment, at the mouth of the Columbia river, Oregon Territory, where it is proposed by a late act of Congress to erect the principal ligbt-house for that river, is a .bold cliff of columnar basalt, rismg perpenaicularly from the sea to variable heights of from two hundred to three hundred feet, terminating in unequal rolling summit:;;, covered with n rich and fertile soil. The summits vary also in width from ten to fifty foet at the apex, whence they slope by a quick descent to the north ward; the northern or in-shore face of the hills being covered by a dense growth of gigantic pine, alder, and other trees, with a thick growth of vine·s, "salmon berry," and other shrubbery. . The summit of the sea cliffs (which are not covered by the forest) is the propel' position for locating the light-house; say within two to four hundred ;vards to the westward of "Broom station," as given on our triangulation of the river. Should the tower be placed there, it will show the light from the lantern around three-fourths of the horizon without the necessity of felling the trees to the northward. In this position the base of the tower will be about two hundred and fifty feet above high-water mark; and should the tower be raised forty feet to the deck of the lantern, (and in my opinion it should not be less,) on a base of sixteen feet in diameter, it will be a prominent landmark for . making the cape in the daytime. The lantern, or light, which is to be placed on the tower should be of a power not less than the best light on Navesink; in other words, a marine light of the first power.

520

.S. Doc. 3.

The tower should be constructed of fire;.proof materials, and no wood whatever should be admitted into the construction of the building, as there is at all times much danger of the forest being fired to .the northward, which,. in such case, would inevitably. destroy the building. From the cove m Baker's bay, where the materials would be landed, the distance is about one thousand yards by a path, now greatly .obstructed by huge trees, which have fallen across 1t. It must ever be a difficult matter to transport any great amount of bulk, or weight, to the summit. A good road must first be made ·. Whether the tower is constructed of wood, iron, or brick, the materials must be transported in · small parcels. . When such a tower as I have contemplated is lighted up by a lisht of the first power, it will be clearly visible for a distance of nme leagues at sea, from the northwest by the west, and southwest to the south, and by the east for the entire width of the river, and foi: the same distance up the Columbia. A light on Cape Hancock, or Disappointment, will be of vast importance to the rapidly increasing commerce of Oregon, as it will enable all vessels to approach the coast boldly, and then to maintain their positions on pilot-ground until daylight, when they will be at once taken into port by the highly intelligent pilots now folly established there. Very respectfully, sir, I have the. honor to be your obedient servant, WASHINGTON A. BAR'fLETT,
Lieutenant United States Navy, Assistant Coast Survey.

Pro£ A. D.

BAcHE,

Sup't U. '8. Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 4,
Extracts from a letter of Lieutenal1t Commanding JamCR Alden, U· .8. N., assistant in t(te coast survey, to Professor A. D. 13aclte, Su1Jerintendent, ·relating to Humboldt harbor qnd ·"l'rinidad bay, California.

U.
DEAR

S. SURVEYING ScnooNER Ew1NG,

San Francisco, August 31, 1851.

Srn: · · · · · · · We left San Francisco on the 24th of June, and after rm exceedingly ?oister?us passage of ten days arrive~ at TrinJdad. Thi~ anchorage lS, durmg six months of the year, perfectly safe and comfortable. It is some twenty miles to the northward of the entrance to Humboldt; and, as the wind was unfavorable for us to go there at the time, we employed ourselves during the detention of two or three days in making a chart of the bay. It is sent with the others, and I hope it will meet with your approbation. The mines in the vicinity of 'l'rinidad have made it quite an important location. It serves as a resting place for . the miners, and is the source whence nll their supplies are derived. '!'here are about one hundred houses in the village, and the land in the vicinity, for agricultural purposes, can hardly be surpassed. The

S. Doc. 3.
~igantic

lS2l'

red wood abounds there in all its magnificence, always affordmg to the hardy settler the readiest and most lasting material for neat and arpropriate buildings. The fibre of this wood is so straight, and so easily ifeparated, that it is split with .comparatively little trouble into all the different forms requisite for nn unpretending dwelling in a new ·country. The depredations of the Indians in that guarter have been, I am sorry to say, a serious drawback to their fonnmg operations; so much so, indeed, that most of them have been compelled to leave their all and gu into the town for protection. On the 10th July we lett. Trinidad with a fair wind, and in a few hours were at anchor in Humboldt bay. W c were employed about four weeks in making the survey of that place. Finding it much better in every respect than it had been represented, I gave it more care and made a closer examination than an ordinary reconnaissance requir.::d. This body of watei· partakes more of the character of a lagoon than an ordinary bay. It is sixteen miles long, and from one to five broad. It is broadest ,n.t either extremity, where it is but a great grassy flat, washed with ubout one foot of water, (when the tide is out,) and broken here and there by navigable sluices. The entrance is practicable, except in very bad weather, when the sea breaks entirely across it. There are twenty-one feet on the bar at low water, and the ordinary strength of the tide does not exceed two knots. Under unfavorable circumstances, at low water, and with 11 very 'light breeze blowing directly in the channel,· this schooner went to sea without difficulty. The two sen. walls, or narrow necks of land, which so nearly shut out the sea, are covered with sand-hills, ranging from ten to forty .and fifty· feet in height. On ·the north spit I have marked the place where I think the light-house should be located. It is the nearest point to the entrance, and is, therefore, less linble to be· obscured by fog; and with a beacon farther buck, the two would form the best range to pass between the north and south breakers-not that it should be attempted at night, unless under the most favorable circumstances. As Humboldt is rather out of the way of vessels passing up and down the coast, I have thought that a light of the second or third class would answer all purposes required at that point, and be sufficiently larR,e for vessels bound in to maintain their position during the· night. 'I he country is hilly, almost mountainous, in the vicinity of Humboldt. The fir and the red wood predominate in the forests, and I am informed that the land possesses every requisite for forming purposes. The cattle luxuriate the yen.r round iu green grass and the tallest clover I ever saw. The temperature is very equable; they have a slight frost in the fall, and the winter only clitters from the summer in being more pleasant. Elk and deer are found in abundance, and many vn.neties of wild fowl fre· quent the qay. '!'here are no less than four villages or settlements on the bay. Humboldt, at the entrance, has thirteen houses; Eureka as mu.ny. Bucksport is just taking a start, and its location is thought to be superior to all the others, from the fact that it has better wn.ter and more room for commercial purposes. Union town is the largest, having about one hundred house.s. It is located in the north end of the bay. Its proximity to the mines is the only advantage it has over the others

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

S. Doc. ·S.
while the difficulty of transporting supplies· from the depot at Eureka seems to be almost an insurmountable objection to its ever becoming a place of much importance. Everything has to. be carried in small boats up a very narrow sluice, and that only ·at high water, while the nearest point of water communication is a mile from the town. A road can be cut from either of the other towns to communicnte with the one from Union to the mines, with but'little expense or trouble · . I am,· sir, very truly and respectfully, yours, &c., . . . . JAML~S ALDEN;
Lieut. Com'g. U. S. N., and Assistant Coast Survey ·.

Prof. A. D.

BACHE,·

Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 46.
Letter of th(J Superintendent of tlie Coast' Survey to the Secretary of the Treasury, transmitting tlie report Of R. D. Cutts, esq., ·assistant in tlie coast survey, witl! sketches of !tis survey of Fort Point, at tlte entrance to San Francisco bay, and of Alcatraz, or Bird island, witliin tlte bay, proposed as sites /or light-ltouses.. ·
CoAST SunVEY OFFICE,

February 13, 1851.

Sm: I have the honor to transmit a report by Assistant R. D. Cutts, of the Coast Survey, with sketches of his survey of Fort Point, at the entrance to San Francisco bay, and of Alcatraz, or Bird island, within the bay, proposed as sites for light-houses in the bill passed at the last session of Congress. The complete drawings which Mr. Cut~s forwarded by Adams & Co.'s express have not come to hand, hut the report and sketches of the sites, with a tracing frorp the ·chart of the bay, which shows the relative positions of the points, will supply the infor- · mation essential to the action of the department. When.the com.rlete drawings are received, I will replace these ani:l sketches by copies of them.·· · · I have examined, and confirm, the recommendations made by Mr·. Cutts in his report;. nbr have any facts come to my knowledge from inquiries made of Lieutenant Patterson, United States navy, formerly attached to the Coast Survey, who has commanded the mail-steamer Oregon, I,>lying on the western coast, of· Lieutenant Bartlett, recently . engaged m the hydrography of the western coast', and of Passed Midshipman McLane, second officer of the mail-steamer" Panama," and recently attached to the Coast Survey, to indicate that the location already adopted for lights at the entrance of San Francisco bay (the South Farrallone, Fort Pomt, and Alcatraz. island) should be altered. I respectfully recommend for the light on Fort Point one of the sec" The draWings were subsequently sent in.

· S. Doc; 8.
ond order, (French system,) or its equivalent; and for the one on Alcatraz island one. of the fourth order, or its equivalent. Very respectfully, yours, . · A. D. BACHE,
Superintendent U. 8. Coast Survei;.

Hon. Tuos. ConwrN·, Secretary of tlte Treasury.

SAN FRANCISCO DAY,

.

December 27, 1850.. DEAR Sm i In conformity with your instructions of October 5, directing that light-house surveys should be my first and immediate duty upon arriving at San Francisco, I have to report that I have made the. necessary examinations and surveys 'of Alcatraz island and Fort Point, in th.e Bay of San Francisco, the results of which, and sketches on a scale of ro ~ ~ 0 , are herewith forwarded. The magnetic course of Alcatraz island from Fort Point is N. 53 E., say NE., by E. which is the best range for crossing the bar and for passing between Points Lobos and Boucta. The Farrallones are visible from.Alcatraz. The· three· localities, therefore, appear. to be·well selected; and when the lights .are erected, every desirable object will be accomplished. . · Alcatraz, or Bird island, is a lar~e rock, rising to an elevation of one hundred and thirty-five feet above }ugh-water mark. Its greatest length and breadth arc one thousand six ·hundred and seventy-three, and five hundred and ninety feet, respectively. The summit is rounded, and has a thin layer of soil, the rock itself being soft, friable, and easily excavated; deep water-marks all around the island, and, with the exception of at two or three particular places, the sides are so precipitous that a landing can be with difficulty effected. . Fort Point is sixteen thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight feet, or three miles three hundred and nineteen yards, from Alcatraz island, and commands a full view of the entrance to the bay. The proposed site for the light-house is on an elevated and :erominent point, (one hundred and seven feet apove high-water mark,) and which was formerly occupied as a Mexican fort. · ·The sites for light-houses are marked on the sketches by a circle in red ink. Fort Point belongs by reservation to the United States. Alcatraz is claimed by purchase from Mexican grants by Col. J.C. Fremont.

624

S. Doc. 3.
Table.
Height oflan· Height of Heightoflan-! Distance at Statute ni.iles. tern above base above · tern above 1 which lights high-water high-water would be visibase. mark. mark. ble,clcarweather, nautical miles.

Alc'atraz island . 20 feet. Fort Point ..·.. 20 "

135 feet. 155 feet. 17 miles. 15 " 107 " 127 "

21
19~

I am, &c., yours, truly, RICH. D. CUTTS,
Assistant Coast Survey.

Pro£ A. D,

BACHE,

Su1Jerintendcnt U. S. Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 47.
Report of A. D. Baclte, Superintendent of the United States Coast SurVC?j, · to the· Secretary of the Treasur:;, correcting important errors in tlte position of the Farrallones and Point Lobos, entrance to San Francisco Bay.
COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

Wasliington; April 24, 1851.

Sm: I have· the honor to submit the following report from R. D ·.
Cutts, esq., assistant United States coast survey, correcting important errors in previous reports as to the position of the Farrallones and Point Lobos, entrance to San Francisco bay, which I re.spcctfully request authority to publish. These corrections are the results of a trigonometrical survey. Very respectfully, yours, A. D.· BACHE,
Superintendent United States Coast Survey.

W. L. HoDGE, Esq.,
Acting Secretary

of the

Treasury.

SCIIOONER BALTIMORE,

San Francisco Bay, February 28,. 1861.
DEAR Sm: Under the head of the "Farrallones," in the sailing direc. tions for the western coast, it is stated that11 The southeast inlet is the largest of the group, and is distant from the fort, at the mouth of the harbor, twenty-eight miles, and bears from fo1t S. 68° W ., time. . In the next edition of these directions the distance may be stated at 29.9 miles, and the true course from fort S. 7o0 12' W.

S. Doc. 3.
Adoptin~ for the starting point the latitude and longitude of Fort Point, as given by Lieutenant·McArthur in the fublished ''tables," the latitude of the South Farrallone becomes 37° 41 37'1, instead of 37° 36' 3011 ; and the longitude of Point Lobos (the most western extremity) 122° 29' 4711 , instead of 122° 27 1 30''. Very truly, yours, R. D. CUTTS. Prof. A. D. BACHE,

Superintendent U.S. Coast Survtry.

APPENDIX No. 48.
Report of Lieutenant Wasltington A. Bartlett, United States 1w.vy, assistant in tlte coast surve'!/, to tltc Superintendent, on tlte general character of tlte coast of California.
WASIJINGTON, Januar·y 6, 1861. Srn : In answer to your several inquiries of the 31st ultimo, I have the honor to state, that the general character and configuration of the coast of California exhibit bold precipitous cliff...:;, varinble in height, occasionally interrupted by sand and shingle beaches. In some places the shore-lihe, even where faced by cliffs, is also'u ilat sand-beach, but in such cnscs nnrrow, and entirely w:tshcd by a full tide~ On all parts of the coa'st vessels may approach within a very short · distance of the beach, without encountering any dangers not visible to the eye, except that of being lwve upon the beach by the swell,. if the failing ofthe wind should leave the vessel becalmed. The hill-tops are generally rolling, but at times present long ranges of sligh.tly inclined .rlniris, or ta~les, partially covered with gigantic r~cl wood tnnber. Wild oats and nch grass~s arc abundant on all tho lulls. an<l forest openinfrs of the coast range. . The islands wl1ich lie off the coast between Cape Conception and San Diego are not yet determined in position, with any very close approach to accuracy. They are large and conspicuous ol~jccts to. the navigation in clear weather, but require more thoroug1~ examinatit)n and determination. '!'hey are as follow : Santa H.oso:, or Miguel, Sun Bernardo, Santa Cruz, Saint Nicholas, Santa Bn.rbarn., Santa Catalina, Sun Clemente, or Salvador, San J un.n, and the Coronados isles. Several of these islands have islets in their vicinity, and there are recfa ·and detached rocks reported in several places within their range. \Vhetlwr these reefs nml ISlcts are the same, being variously placed by navigators assigning them erroneous positions on the crude charts of that coast, which have been in general use by the coasters, or w hcther they are more numerous and dangerous than they appear on the general charts of the latest publications, is yet to be n.scertn.med. 'l'ltere is no part of tlw coast ef tlw Unite1l States tltat req1tires an imme-

diate and tltorouglt examination witli all tlte means at tlie command of tlte coast survey more titan tltat part included between ~.Monterey and San Diego.

Our late reconnaissance to the .northward shows how indeterminate .

·s. Doc. 3.
have been previdUs authorities, and how very much superior it is to previously conceived notions. To the southward and eastward of Point ·conception the islands of San Bernardo, San Miguel, and Santa Cruz form the western border of the Santa Barbara channel or souni!. This is the route of the coasting trade and Pacific mail steamships generally. . The· light-house proposed to be erected on Cape Conception will be of great benefit to this trade. In consequence of fogs· and. haze, the cape (which is bold, and clear of danger) must be made, in order to shape a course with certainty . through the channel or sound of Santa Barbara. The island of San Bernardo lies nearly due south of Cape Conception, distant 30 miles, " San Miguel" 33 miles SE., (compass,) and " Santa Cruz " 33 miles ESE., and eleven ·miles south of the anchorage of Santa Barbara. · The coast is clear of dangers, both on the mai.n land and the eastern shores of the island. Navigators prefer to take the channel, in consequence of reported reefs and shoals, to the westward of San Miguel and north of San Nicholas. There is no doubt such do exist, and are as yet very uncertain in position. The light-house for Cape Conception should lie as near the shore as poss~ble, having regard to height, for sea view. This light should be seen ten or eleven leagues, and be of the first class. . · . A position can be had for Conception light which will not require a tower· higher than those on Nave.sink. Beginning with the light at the Farrallone, off San· Francisco, as a fixed light, I would recommend the following order to the southward : Monterey · a revolving light. Cape ·conception a fixed '' · San Diego. a revolving . " As the above will all be main sea-lights, they should be of the. first class. . All other lights which the future wants of commerce may require m this district will only be secondary or local lights. · R,espectfully submitted by your obedient servant, WASHINGTON A. BAUTLETT,
Lieutenant U. S. Navy, and Assistant Qoast Survey.

Prof. A. D.

BACHE,

·

Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey.

APPENDIX No. 49.
Letter of tlte Superintendent ef tlie Coast Survey to tlw Secretary of tlze Treasury, communicating a letter from Lieut. W. A. Bartlett, U. S. N., assistant in coast sur,vey, relating to tlw commerce of tlie Columbia River·
. COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

.February 26, 1861. Sm: I have the honor to send herewith a letter from Lieut. Wash'n A. Bartlett, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, enclosing a

s.

Doc. 3.

list of vessels which have crossed the bar of the Columbia river during the year 1860. · I respectfully reque~t that it may be communicated to the Committees on Finance and Commerce of the Senate, and Com- · mittee on Commerce. of the House of Representatives. Yours, very respectfully, A. D. BACHE, S1tperintendent Ooast Survey. Hon. THos. CorwIN, ·BccretanJ of the Treasury.

NATIONAL HOTEL,

w ASHINGTON,
Febrw.i.ry 24, 1861.

DEAR Sm : I· herewith enclose a list of vessels which have crossed
the bar of the Columbia river, Oregon Territory, during the year 1860. I rf'ceived it this evening direct from the United States collector at Astoria. By this list you will perceive that :while the large number of 160 sail-of· ships, barques, brigs, and. steamers-have safoly crossed the bar of the Columbia river during the year, no ·less than one hundred and forty-four sail have el\tered and departed by the new. south channel, which was surveyed by the late Lieutenant Commanding W. P. McArthur, U. S. N., and myself, under your direction, the past season; the chart of which is now heing engraved. This list of vessels embraces a· fleet of over. eighty thousand tons burden, which in one year have. entered and cleared at the customhouse at Astoria, without a solitary accident or loss of one dollar to owners or insurers by the passage of the bar. It is very doubtful whether tl1e commercial statistics of any other · port of equal commerce can show such an exhibit. Of the sixteen pa ssrtges made through the old north channel, a.11 but three were made by steam vessels, which fact has fully demonstrated two things: first, that 'tlic prediction long since made, that steam would certainly and safely open the navigation of the Columbia, and, secondly, that qur reports of the past summer, that the south channel is the practical commercial channel of the river, ure fully established to be correct b;y: the sh?~·ing of the pilots; they having taken on? hundred Cfnd forty sail ot sa1lmg vessels through the south channel,. wlulc only jour have passed through the north channel. . Since the publication of our sailing directions in June la.st, ten sailing vessels have passed tltrour;li tlw .rnuth cliannel without a pilot! 'l'he pilots have talwn 17 2' foet draught over the bar of the south channel. In view of. these facts, and my experience of the wants of the usual aids to commerce on this river, I have been addressed by a large number of the ship-masters and owners of vessels trading into the Columbia, to urge upon the proper departments of the government the ne:. eessity of hastening the work of building the light-houses, and placing . the buoys, already provided by act of Congress. Also, that the growing commerce of the port of Astoria demands an

628

s.

Doc. 3.

immediate appropriation for a custom-house at that point, in order that the public business may be properly transacted. I have the honor, therefore, to request that copies of this communication be transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Committee on Finance of the United States Senate. In this connexion I may also mention that I was this day informed by Mr: Preston, surveyor general for Oregon, that in consequence of the publication. of my report, made .to you in June last, of the safoty of the south channel of the Columbia, the insuranqe companies of St. Louis at once took risks for the river, at the same~ as for San Francisco. · This is the direct influence of correct hydrographical infor· mation. · Sir, l have the honor to be, with high respect, your obedient servant, . WASH'N A. BARTLETT, Lieut. Com'g U. S. N., and Assistant Coast Survey. Pro£ A. D. BACHE, Su11erintendent Coast Su'rvmj.

APPENDIX No. 50.

Letter of tlze Superintendent of tlte Coast Survey to tlte Secretary of tlie Treasury, communicating information relating to Trinidad, Humboldt, and Sf!n Diego bays.
Ar,FRED, MAINE, September 29, 1851. DEAR Sm: The frillowinl? information in rcf\'ard to Humboldt harbor, Trinidad bay, and San Diego harbor and its apprrn+chcs, has been received from Lieutenant Commanding J amcs Alden, United States navy, Assistant R. D. Cutts, and Sub-Assistant A. M. Harrison. I would respectfolly request authority for its publication: Trinidad and Humboldt buys have been surveyed, and the charts will be ready to forward .by the first proximo. The first-named is a very convenient and safe anchorage during six months in the year, and will . be found by vessels that have suff(~red from the stronf! head (northerly) winds that. prevail along the coast, a comfortable harbor of refuge. Humboldt bay is, I think, the third harbor on thi~ coast; it is six· teen miles long, ·and from threc-quartnrs to four or five miles wide. The entrance hctweenthe breakers is nearly straight, but rather along· the coast; it is about a mile long, and two lmn<lred metres wide, betw.een the eighte,en-feet curves on eitlwr ·side, with twenty-one feet nt low water on the bar. ~t is perfoctly accessible, except in very heavy ·weather, when, I am mformcd, the sea breaks· entirely across the entrance; hut we had no trouble in getting in, and bwt out against 11 very light air, with little or no tide in our favor. 'Ve have made 11 very careful examination of it. . San Diego bay.-From the perfect shelter it affords from all winds, and the depth of its water, San Diego bay is considered, next .to San Francisco, the best on this coast. That such u large volume of water
STATION, NEAR

Oss1PEE

S. Doc. 3.
shoulU have such n small outlet is somewhat remnrk,;:ible, as is also the very singular natural brctikwater, Ballast point. , The l'ort La Phiya is situated on the webtem shore of the bay; about one mile. and three~uarters from the entrance. The anchorage is in between nine .1md ten fothoms. The cust;om-house is placed here, and it is aloso the place where the · mail-steamers stoµ. An excellent road leads from La Playa to'Old San Diego, which is a small town of a fow nclobc houses and unapproachable by water, even.in bouts. New San Diego, now about a year old, is situated on a plain, at the base of the hills, on the ca.st side of the bny. It com1ists of a fow American-built houses, and a large storehouse for the guartcrmaster's department. The United States military depot is established there. A channel runs in a curve from Ln. Plnya to New 8an Diego, and vessels can carry from Rix to seven fa.thorns water. Doth New Snn Diego and La Playa are dependent upon the river at Olcl San Diego for their water. Between the ri.hovc-mtmed ehnnnd unJ Old Siui Diego are large flats, mostly covered with grass, and partly bare at low tide. . The most important sul~ject, however, connected with the hay, is the effoct of the debouchcrnc11t of tbe Sun Diego river-bringing ·with it, when high, (in the rainy Heason,) great quantitiui:; of sand directly into the channel. . , It is believed, nncl appn.rcntly with reason, that unlesi:; the course of the river be changed, the channel will he ultimately filled, which will !mve the effotit, I th!nk, .of n~t only cutting off.'<~otnmunicn.tion with _Nc\Y' l'own, hut. also ot destroy mg . the hny ('lltll'dy as a hurhor; for J.t appears that nothing kncp,: tho bny open lmt.the great ;unount of water flowing in nncl out at the narrow entrance; ancl, ·wlien tlic · clwmiel is cloi!cd, the greater part of tlw hay is cut off; leavi11g an insufticient amount to keep the entranec ckar. A bar would douhtlcss..fonn across tho mouth, and the bay will gradually fill up. · That the river does b:·ing siind into the bay if: asserted by the deputy collector of this place, and otherii who have the means of knowing; nn<l, further, it is known that vessds nt one time could mwhor in False hay, but the river flowing into it destroyed it hy filling it with sand; ancl it then turned its coui:se into Sun Diego hay. . If such he the facts-and I sec no reason .to doubt them-the only remedy for the evil is to turn the river into False bny ngain. This. is · un excellent hurbor, and it~ lo,;s would be severely fl'lt. Uespecting the tides, Mr. Gray gives the average as six foet, which is approximately correct. Tbe pilot8 tell me thut t Ito tides vary in their rise aud fall from nine foct (.-pring-tides) to three nncl a hulf during the ye11r. A bout two-thirds of tlw. way from the Pluya to the crul of D alla:::t point is a shoal, having nine foet of water nt low tide, hut lately disCOV'2lred.

Ba.ili11(5 diraction,s for Rem Diego.-Vessels in sight of the <~oust,. and ar.proaching San Diego from the north, will observe an opening in the lulls, and the apJ?earance of till 1nland ba:y. This is the °False por~,'~ and must be avoided. Irnmcdiutely north of "False port" commences a table land, about four hundr(Jd and fifty foet high, and extending southwardly six or sevcu · milos. . The extremity of this t1;1blc-land i~

'

called J?ointJi4pma,, ru;i.:<l. forms ..the..entrai1ce. to the. 4~rb.or. o( San, Diqup~ 0 ' 34 . '

630

S. Doc. 3.

Those bound from the southward will first sight the group . high, rocky islets, called ".Loa Ooronatloa." From thence to Point Loma the course is N. i E., and the distance fifteen nautical miles. On a clear day "Los Coronlidos" will serve as a landmark and guide for vessels coming from any direction. . . . Steer right through the kelp, giving Point Lorna a berth of one~half mile, and in a few minutes you .will open Ballast point, a low beach of shingle stones forming a natural·breakwater. Th6n round up gradually; until you bring Ballast point in range with the easternmost fiouse on the P~aya, and be very carejul not to ope1: more of tlte villag~; otherwise you will be too far to the east and m danger of gettmg aground on Zuningo shoal. The breakers show its position. During the summer keep as close to the hills, on your port side, as your draught of water will allow, as you will then he able to lay on the wind right up to Ballast point. You can carry four fathoms within a ship's length of the point. Keep on the above range, and, when up with Ballast point, steer direct ·for the Playa, and anchor as you please. Inside of the breakwater; and about two hundred and fifty yards true north of its extremity, is a shoal spot, with twelve foet water at low tide. The shoals on the starboard hand are'·plain .in sight, except at very high water. Beyond the Playa, the shoals are easily distinguished. The chunnel, however, is buoyed. From the Pl11ya to New Tcm:n-:-four mil~s distant-you can carry six fathoms of water. A mile or two beyond New '.l'own the bay becomes shoal. . Very respectfully, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. Hon. THos. CORWIN, Scc:retary of tltc '1'1·eaaury.

of

APPENDIX No. l>l.

Sailing directi012s for entering tlte Columbia river a.s far a.a tlie lta.rbor of Astoria, lnj Lieutenant Oomma11ding TV. P. McArtlmr, United States 1uwy, assistant in tlte coast survey.
It is best, under all circumstances, to have n pilot; but should it be necessary to enter the river without one, the directions for the north channel are: First, bring Sand islrind in range with J.'oint Ellice, and stand 10 towards Sand island, pas;;ing the south ~ncl of the north breaker. Wh~n Cape Disappointment. and L'e~ding-in ?l~f!' are in range, haul off towards the ca:ee, keepmg Leadmg-111 chtl m range until nearly abreast the cape. Give the cape a sn~all berth, and continue on towards Baker's bay until the second island in the bay can be seen; then keep off, and, with the second i:dand and cape in range astern, it will !'ass clear of the north part of the middle sands. As soon as the :soundings shoal on this course, keep off towards Sand island, nnd, pass mg close by the east end of the island, get. the beacon on the island .mrange with·a tree on Cape Disappointment, (which is trimmed up

S. Doc. 3.

681

like an umbrella,) and, with that range astern, stand on up the bay until the custom-house is on with Young's point, when haul to the east, and ~eep the last range on till nearly up with Young's point. Pass along the south shore, running by the lead, until up to Astoria. 'fo enter. the south.channel, brit:Jg.the beacon on Sund islund to beat no.rth 40° east, (true,) nnd Point .A~lams on the _{)oak, which can be se,en east of Point Ellice, called "Jim Crow,"' (upon which there is a notable tree,) nearly range; the vessel will be then on the bar in the south channel, in the best water. Steer for the beacon, taking care not to sag to the eastward; rather keep close to the breakers 011 the Sand ishtnd shore. Pass close to Sand island, nncl foll into the range of the beacon with the trimmed tree on Cape Disappointment, and procee1l as already directed. 1'he best time for entering is on the first or last of the ebb-tide. Tho last of the ebb-tide is preferable in either channel.

in

APPENDIX No. 52.

Corresr,ondencc of Supcri1itendent o/ the Coast S1trt.'ey ivitli tlte Sccrcta.ry ef tlic· Treasury in relation to two sunken rocks itt tlw luirbor OJ. San Frau,. cisco, re11orted by collector of tlwt port.
l.
TnEASURY DEPA.ttTMENT,

· July 21, lSol. Sm: The·cntilosed' letters from the· collector of Sn·n l"raucisco, requesting that buoys be ·placed over two sunken rocks therein mentioned, are transmitted foL· your views on the su~ject. You will please return the· letters with your report, nnd if nny re~ort shall have been n111de to you by the officers of the coast survey in Galifornia, I will thank you to furnish n copy to the department. Very respectfully, your obedient servant, · · W. L. HODGE, Acting Secretary of tlte Trcasm·y.
Prof. A. D. IlAcHE,, S1q1eri1ttC1ulont Co<Ut SttrtJcy.

2.
CoLLEc'.rou's
01r.1r10E,

CusTo"r-HousE,

~o the Hon. Stephen Plea.sonton, Fifth Auditor, requesting authority to p1·o~ure two buoys to place on two sunken rocks, very dangerous·to

Stm Francisco, June 7, 18lH. Sia: I have the honor to enclose n copy of a letter I have ttddressed
It is c)f great importance

vessels navigating the waters of this bay.

S.

Doc~

3';

t1iat these danger~us rocks should be indicated· to n'nvigators; and I trust the requisite steps may be taken as' promptly as possible. I. have the honor to be, with great respect, your most obedient servant, T. ·BUTLER KING, Collector. Hon. TuoM:A.S CoRWIN, Secretary ef t!te. 'l'reasury, Wasl1ington City.

CoLr,1-.cTou's Om·',JCE, CuwroM-HousE, Sa.n Francisco, June 7, 1850. SIR: There arc two sunken rocks in the straits between the bays of San Francisco and San Pablo, which am very dangerous to navigi~tion, being directly in the track of vessels navigating these waters. Applictr.don has been ma.de to me to have buoys placed upon them, and the officers engaged in the coast survey are ready to place buoys wl1enever they can be procured. Under tl1ese circumstances, please .. authorize some person .to procure ·buoys to mark these dangerous hindrunces to navigation.· . . Vcry rcspcctfolly, your obedient servant, 'l'. BU'l'LER KING, Collector. Hon. S·.rEPHBN P1,1i:ASON'l'oN, Fijtk Auditor, Treasur!J ·Department, Wasl1ington 0 ity.

4.

c. ~. STATION, ~fr. PJ,EASAN'J', Mi·:.,
Jtdy 25, 1851. Sm: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yoitr favor of the 21st instant, ·reluting to buoys to be placed upon two sunken rocks in the bay of San J<"'nmcisco, and requesting to be fornished with the information commuuicate<l to the snperintendent by the officers of the smv~ . In reply, I have the honor to state that Lieutenant Commanding Jas. Alden, U. S. N., assistant in the coast survey, and chief of hydwgraphic party on the western coast, under elate of June 14, informs me · that he has received numerous applications to place buo,Ys on the Invjncible and :eiiossom rocks, in the barbor of San Franmsco, and that he considers it very necessary to the safoty ?f navigation that buoys should be placed upon those dangers. Fully concurring with Lieutenant Alden in his opinion, I would :respectfully recommend that the necessary means m11y be famished to the collectOr of the port of San .ltruncisco, or to· the superintendent of the coast survey,'from any funds the department may have available for the purpose, tu have the buoys procured and placed· , ·'

s. D.oc.

3.

I return, herewith the letters of Mr. King, the collector, as you r~ quest. Yours, respectfully, A. D. BACHE, S11perinte11dent. Hon; W. L. Hoocm, Acting Secretary of tlte 'l'rcasrtry.

APPENDIX No. 63.
Re7JOrt ef Lieutenant Oommandinl{ James Alden, U. 8. nai)y, assistant in. tlte 1.·oa.~t sitr1Jcy, to tlic Superintendent, of tlie death q( P~scd MUlsltipmaJi William De Kovcn, U. S. navy, ass~~ta1it in tlte coast s1trvey, cm tlie tltirt!J.-}ir# 1!f May, 1861.

U. S. Sun.VEYING ScHooN1m EwINO·, San Franc~co, :ftfay 31, 1851. · DEAR Sm : I hn.ve just time, before the steamer sn.ils, to impart to you the mebncholy news of the su<ldcn death of Passed Midshipman William De Kovcn. His disease was apoplexy; imd when I mailed :my last letter to. you, one short hour ngo, he was not thought to be in nny danger. I had known him but u fow days, but in that time leamed to honor und respect the noble qualities which adornnd his character. This sudden and awful event lmi! east the deepest gloom over us all, and our thoughts turn with the saddest sympathy to those bereaved relatives and friends, whose hopes and affoctions are thus, in one short hour, made so desolate. · · · I enclose herewith Dr. Mitchdl's rnport of the circumstanees attending Mr. De Kovcn's death, und beg t.hut, as there is not time before the steamer sails to do so mysdt~ you will please to impart the sa<l intelligence to his frienclf;, and to the Hon. Secretary of tho Navy. With great respect, I am sir, your obedient ser'vnnt, " JAMES ALDEN, Lieutenant Oommanding1 U. ,S, Navy._.:, Prof. A. D; .BACH~, Sttperintendcnt U. S. Cuast Survey, o/c., 'Washington, D. C.

APPENDIX No. 04.
]Jetter of the Sttperinten1lcnt qf tltc Coast S1tr1Je.1J to tlw l~ccro~ary of the 1'rcasury, communicating the tn:~.~ <f tlte steamer Jt:Jj'crson on the coas( oJ Patagonia; with documents relative tltcrcto· .

. 1.
OssIP1m STATION, Nl~AR A1,FRFX>,

ME.,

beeo cominumc~tcd .to you !n{Qrmally .liY tho ui;s1stui~t m. clw.nJ~. Qf the

Sc11tember 1,.1851. SIR: It is ~y unpleascnt duty to report officia~ly-\\:lmt has alrca:.~y

S. Doe. 3.
coast survey office--:the wreck of the steamer Jefferson, arid her abandonment after survey, at Port Desire, Eastern Patagonia. The whole of the circumstances are described in the letter of, Lieutenant Commanding F. K. Murray, United States navy, a copy of which is herewith tr!Ulsmittecl, together with a copy of the report of. the officers who made the examination of the vessel at Port Desire.; and recom·: mended her abandonment as beyond the means accessible for repairs. Such was the violence,of the storm to which.the vessel·was exposed, that there appears more cause for thunkfulness that the lives of the officers and crew were preserved than of regret that the vessel was disabled. · The commander, and his officers and crew, appear to have done all that was practicable under the circumstances. · I transmit herewith a copy of the letter of Lieutenants Alden and Jenkins, recommending the sending of the Jefferson to the western coast; and of that of Lieutenant Commanding Murray, in reply to inquiries addressed by me to him before leaving port. The department will see from them that the best professional advice was had before .sending the vessel to the western coast, and that she was fully equip~ fu~~~ . . ' '1 have not-, yet received advices of the arrival of the officers and men of the Jefferson in the United· States.· ·It will be seen· that their return may soon be expected, and that such po1tions of the machinery of the steamer as it may be possible ·to ship. will be brought with

them.
Very respectfully, yours,

·'

, Hon. Ta:os. ConwIN,
Secretary

A. D. BACHE, Superi11tC11dent, iJ'c.

of tlte Treasury.
2.

Letter' of Lieutenant Commandivg F. K. Mm-ray, United State.· nai·y, to· S1tperintendmit of Coast Survey, reporting tlte loss of tlte Coast S11rveyi11g Steamer Jcfferson.
Port Desire, East Patagonia, June 3, 1861. 8111: It becomes my unpleasant duty to inform you of the disasters which bave befallen the Jefferson since leaving Montevideo, aud driven us into this port, a. complete wreck. After our sailing' the weather continued good until the 23d ultimo, when its threatening appearance, and the low state of the barometer, gave warning of a heavy gale. It overtook us upon the 24th, from the northward, und as it increased, all. necessary and 'UEmal precautions were taken to make the vessel secure; the top-gallant yards and mizzen-topmast were sent upon deck; the hatches battened down; relieving tackles hooked, &c.; and .11~til the ~orning of the 26th, the steamer scudded safely ~>efore fhe. Wlt1d, wJuch.. hauJ,ed on that day to .WNW., 1 and .blew· with -terrific violence, raising a mountainous, irregular, and cross sea, which co~

u. s. s. STEAMER JEFFERSON,

·S. Doc. 3.
stantly threatened' our destruction. To keep a.head of this, all sail that could he carried in addition to full steam was necessary; and nt 3 o'clock, m., she had on the close-reefed foresail; close-reefed ma~ntop-sai , nncl reefed fore storm-staysail. At about that time, a. heavy cross sea from the northward broke over the port-gangway, and threw the .vessel upon her beam-ends, when she instantly bmac11ed to and lay exposed to the heavy sea following us. I was on deck,.as I had been, withoutinterruption, during,the gale, and immediately gave the order to let everything fly but the stoysuil sheet; ond quickly afi:er·w1nds, finding she did not recover, that the sea continued to break over her, and the vessel to settle, to cut away her masts. To lbe . promptltess and coolness with which this order was obeyed, we are in(lebted for our lives. Relieved of the masts, she righted and foll off b,eforc the wind; but, for some moments before their fall, there apperu·ed no earthly hope that the vessel could remain above water a minute, so ·fast and far had she settled into the sea. Fortunately, both musts fell dear of the wheel-houses, but for some time we ln.y ·exposed to the fury of the waves, until their rigging could be disentangled from the leewheel. This accomplished, I directed. the vessel to be hove to unclev. low steam and the reeled spanker, the only sail left; for, fortunately, the mizze11.;.mast was retained when the fore and main foll. At about six o'clock, while laying to, nnother heavy sea broke on board, on the po1t-bow, and swept fore and alt, staving in the bulkheads of the engine-room, wheel-houses, &c., nn,cl currying the steering-wheel overboard. This shock strained the steamer's hull terribly from bow' to stem, and she aftenvn.rds worked ond labored so much that I was apprehe11sive she would bre!l'k in two. As-soon as the hatches could be opened, I ordered water, provisions, stores, everVthing that could possibly be spared, to he thrown overboard, which~ \l'US done with excellent effect; but, though relieved, the working of the vessel's frame continued to such a degree that it appeared doubtfol whether ;SM could hold together to reneh port. 'l'o add to our misfortunes, the vessel had begun to leak badly; the bilge-pumps, choked by the coal, would not work, (no uncommon occurrence with them;) ond the frames of the ~1git1es Imel st1uted. from the hull, and, though instantly secured by chrun, were momentanly expected to brenk down,· and under full steam could make but six revolutions. It nppeured that nothing but n. miraculous interposition of Providence could snvc us, and we have grnat cause for gratitude that this wns accorded us; for in a few minutes afier the shock which disabled the vessel, the wind hauled to the southward and westward, and began to die nwny, and the sea to subside. A continuance of the gale, or nnotber of even ordinary strength, before we reached here, would have cu.used our destruction. We continued to lay to until noon of the 20th, when we found ourselves, by obervation, distant 110 miles from Sen Bear bny, benrinl! SW. by S. 'l'he sea having gone do~vn, nnd n. jury-mainmast. been .ngged, I steered for. thut port,. but, owmg to the statti of the engmes and hull, our progress w11s slow,· and we did not arrive until the 28th, in the afternoon. Yestergay I brought the vessel to this port, (which is in sight from Sea Bear bay,) finding it. to be better protected. from the gnles which prevail at this

r.·

season.

896
I omitted fo mention that, at the time of her ac:::rifent,' tT1e ·:reffersotl had but seventy tons of coal on board, the deck-load taken on board at Montevideo havin~ been consumed. After my arrival m port, the disabled state of the vessel became with me a matter of painful consideration; I· had hoped that she ini-S'ht be rep.ai~ed so a.s t_o co:itinue. her yoyage ; but on ll: close e;i:aminatwo t~e painful conviction forced itself upon me that to attempt it woukl be to incur an unavailing and fruitless cxpeme. "l'lre vessel is evidently shattered fore and aft, continues to leak badly at her anchors, droops forward and aft, and presents every appearance of having brokt:D aifiidships. . ·In my opinion, and in that of the officers, as contained in thefr report, an iron ves~el cannot .be extensive])'.' repaired out of dock; cert11inly not by heaving down, ·m any port of tlns rock-bound coast-exposed to boisterous weather, heavy seas, und a rise and fall of tide of over twenty foet. I have directed a survey upon the hull of the steamer by the engineer and other officers attached to her, and herewith enclose their report, in which I foel it a duty to those whose lives are intruslled' to· my charge to coincide.. .As they considered that the 11cccssary repairs-cannot be made out of dock, and the vessel utterly urn:maworthy in her present state, as whether we return or go forward, proceed north or south, there lies before·us a dangerous und tempestuous coast, I see no alternative hut to adopt the unanimous advice uf thf.J· officers -under my command, and abandon the wreck. I have therefore directed the machinery, hoiiers, &c., to be removed, and, with whatever other government prope1ty can be shipped to advantage, intend to place them on board a vessel now loadmg here for the United States, and e:xpected to sail in a month or six \veeks, should no earlier opportunity offer. I shall also return in her with the officers and men. Within twelve miles of this port, on' Penguin island, is a Rettlemcnt of guano· gatherers. The gcntlelnanly proprietor of the island, Mr. Powell, has kindly offore<l us every asr;istance jn his power, and will provide prflvisions for the crew during our stay. ' In conclusion, sir, I need hardly say that I abandon this vessel with feelings of deep rewet, but with 11 comiciousness that my duty requires it; and that during the perils through which we have passed, no.effort was wanting on the part of myself rind officers to secure her safoty and ·that of her crew. I take pleasure in hringing to your notice the excellent conduct of all under my command during the trying- scenes of the .late gale; To their firmness, coolness, and prompt obedience of drders, at a titne .when death appeared inevitable, we owe our lives, nnd the ·governm~nt what has been saved from the wreck. For seventy..two ·hours all hands were constantly on df.·ck at the pumps and bailing, without rest, drenched by the sea, and benumbed hy cold ; yet all did their duty with a.courage and manliness to which I am proud to benr .testimony. I would particularly mention the conduct of Mr. Garvin, the engineer in ch\;Lrge. HiEI gallantry in perilling his life in the wheel. held .only by the engine, and on which the scu was constantly breaking, to· clear it of the rigging of the wreck of the foremast. I am happy to ~~y that no lives w<·re lost, tho.ug.h several men were severely i11~nred <lur1ggJhe gale; but I regret to mform you -of the death of Le,v1s M..

'Duinf>re, ·(landsman,) of Wilmington, Delaware, which occurred suddenly on the 21st ultimo. I am, very respectfully, yours, &c., . F. K. MURRAY,

Lieutenant· Commandi11g.
Prof: A. D.
BACHE,

Su11erintcndcnt Coast Survey, Waslti1igton D. C.

3·

. Letter of Lieutenant Commandi'.ng Murray, U. 8. N., to tl1e officer's of th~ Jeifcr.~on, ordl'ring a report of the injm·ic.~ sustained and tlte course to be pursued in relation to lwr; and tlwir reply. . ·

U.S.

STEAMER

JEFPEnsoN,

l'ort Desire, June 3, 1'861.
GF:N'r~.~~m:r: You will hold a .surv~y upon this.vessel! and report to, me what ir~1unos have been st~stamcd m her.hnll and cngmes dunng the recent gale of the twenty-fifrh ultimo;' whether she is now in 11 situato go to sea, or can be repaired so as to enable her to do so. If in your opinion she is unseaworthy, and cannot be~ repaired here, you will· please state what course it would be mo,;t a<lvantageous to pursue with rcg11rd to her. I am, respectfully, &c.,
I·~.

K. MURRAY,
Lieutenant Commanding.

Acting Master C. ,V, Pr,AcE, Passed Mic l shipman W. H. W ILcox, Passed Midshipmun G. Cn,LEY, Passed l\Iidshipman D. P. l\foConKLE 1 First Assistant Engineer B. F. GA1tvIN, Second Assistant Engineer R. H. LoNG, Second Assistant Engineer W. NONES, Third Assistant Engineer W. H. lluTHERFoun.

u. s. STEAMEU JEF'I<'ERSON,
I'ort Desire, June 3, 1861. Sm:. In compliance with your order of June 3, we have held n. . .sur:ey upo~ this vessel, and rep~1rt the injuric;s· sust1~.ined in }ier hull n.nd
engmes durmg the recent gale of the twenty-hfth ultimo, as tollows, viz:

.She droops on starboard bow and port-quarter, has the appearance of
being logged, which.opinion is strengthened by her working and laboring very much in a s0a-way. She makes twenty-three 9r twenty-four inches of water per day, from which we condudt\ that some rivets on the bottom have started. Fore and muinm!Lst gone; and jib-boom gone, with their euils and rigging. Decks droop und leak fore nnd ail:;; all the joiner's work on t~1e fonvard und after-guards gone. Wheel-]1ouses

'688
and port hammock-netting. partially carried a'vay; also ·steering.;.wheel and engine-room bulk-head stove m; a bad leak on the starboard bow·; first cutter's planking stove off; upper half:.ports and binnacle gone; the ship steering wildly, rudder is supposed to be iqjured; dflck pump fiMch broken ; outer frames of the engines work three inches, and en· gines work fore and aft. We do not consider her in a situation to go to sea; neither can she be repaired so a.s to snable her to do so without being docked;. and in our opinion she i11 unseaworthy, and cannot be repaired here; and, in duty bound, we unhe;;itatingly advise that all valuable property on board should be tak(m from her, and, with the ship's company, embarked on boaTd some staunch vessel to return to the U riited States, abandoning her much-wrecked hull and leaving an agent in charge for further instructions. We are respectfully; &c., C. W. PLACE, Acting Master. WM. H. WILCOX, Passed Midshipman. GREENLEAF CILLEY, Passed Mitlahipman. D. P. McCORKLE, Passed Midsltipman. BENJ. F. GARVIN, J!'irst Assi.9tant Engineer. ROBERT II. LONG, Second Assistant Engineer. '"· H. NONES, Second Assistant Engineer. WM. H. RV'l'HE1U'ORD, . . 'l'hird Assista.nt E1igineer. Lieutenant Commnnding F. K. MuRRAY, Oommanding · United States Steamer Jefferson.

4

Re.port of Lie?ttenants Commanding James Alden and Tliornton A. Jcnlci111.
ui regard coast.
to fitness

of steamer JPJ[erson for hydrographic party on western .

UNITED STATES COAST SURVEY STEAMER JEFFERSON,

Baltimore, October. 17, 1850. Sm : We have rcsJ?ectfully to report, in compliance with your in.structions of the lfith instant, on the points contained therein, viz : 1. That the steamer Walker is not adapted to hydrographic service on the western coast as an efficient steam vessel. · 2. That the Jefferson may be rendered fit for that service, and may be sent safely, under sails to he1· destination. . 3. To prepare the Jefferson to proceed with expe4ition to the Pacific,

S. Doe. ·3;

639

it will be necessary to have the wheel-houses and wheels taken down, and the. parts so .fitted as to' enable the engineer,s crew ori board lo replace them in the space of tliree to four weekS' time. 4. It will be necessary to convert the Jefferson into a barque ; her fore and mainma.sts.·occupying . the . same. position as .at present, and. a small mizzen-mast, placed just forward of the cabin bulk-bend, to can·y a span~er. . The fore and mainmasts and spars to be of the proper dimensions ofa sailing vessel·of.her tonnage.· ·, · · 6. To make the Jefferson an efficient steamer surveying vessel, thei·e will be required new boilers, new bilge and force-pumps, and the nt.'cessary connexions to be made to the new boilers. · 6. It will require from six to seven weeks to construci the boilers, and from three to fom weeks to put them in their places and fit the pr<r. per connexions. . · · 7. 'rhe Jefferson can be masted and rigged in a month from the time the order may be given, if atti:mded to by a competent and zealous officer. 8. It is believed the engines can be thoroughly overhauled and put in complete order for nn:r service connected with hydrography, embracing the recommendations of. the engine·ers appended, for tl1e sum of ..... ~ ...····.···.··.· ~ ·············.····.·.······ $1,600 00 Probable cost of boilers ··· .; · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . 8,000 00
Amount. · . . · · · · · · · . · · . . · · · . . . . . · . · · . . · · · · . · 9. The whole amount for preparing the Jefferson for the voyage around Cape Horn muy be assumed at about...
9,600 00
4,000 00

·Making the total expense....... · . · . · · · · · . · · · . · 13,600 00
10. We would call your attention to the estimates, &c., appended, upon which we have been compelled to rely'in a great measure. 11. The crew can dismantle the vessel after reaching her destination in 'about three clays. 12. 'l'o get her ready for steaming it will require about four week·s work by her engineers and firemen. 13. The carpenters of the vessel could replace the wheel-houses in a few dnys, the materials being prepared here fur doing so. Very respectfolly submitted. THORNTON A. JENKINS, Lieutenant Commanding and Assistant Ooast Smi'C'!J. · · JAMES ALDEN,

Lieutenant Commanding and Assistant Co<Ut ·8111-vcy.
Prof. A. D.
BACHE, .

Su1Jcri1itendcnt U. S. Coast Sun·cy, Wasl1i11gton, D. O.

S~ Doc~

3.

Reports of Lieutenant Commanding Murray, United States tu.tiV1J1 to the Sttp,C1:intendent of tit~ Coast SurveiJ, in relation to tlte fitness of tlie Jcjfc:rson for·voyage .(p, (J,nd duty on, 'IJ)estern ·coast.
WASHlNGTON,

D. C., February 20, 1851.

8rn: Jn reply to your inquiries in relation to the surveying steamer Jefferson, · · · · · · · · · · · I respectfully state that, the trial of her boilers and machinery having been made at anchor, I can answer generally that they worked during the gre~ter part of a day to· the entire satisfaction of rpyselfand engineers, and that the latter officers were of opinion that no farther trial would be necessary before proceeding t0 sea.. In casks and tanks, the Jefferson carries about 3,600 gallons of fresh water, sufficient, at the ordinary rate of consumption, for a.bout thirty days. The condenser recently fitted to one of the wheel-houses will yield a supply equal to the daily consumption, and will enable us to keep the casks and tanks filJed, adding thereby to the vessel's stability ·· . under sail. Eighty tons of. coal can be . stored in the bunkers ; when these are filled, I hop6 to be. al:ilo t{> take twt>nty. more .on deck in bags. I cannot say; until all the stores are on board, whether or not it will be prudent to do so. . ....... : . . . . . · Her outfit in .cvery·part.icular is good; 'SO also are her spars, sails, and rigging.. Three months~ provisions for her crew have bf'en put on board, which will last four months, adding thereto the undrawn rations. · Never having been at sea .in the J cfforson; I cannot answer positively in regard to the !ifth query, but may say that I see no reason to doubt that she w~ll be perfectly. safo at sea, aud believe that her machinery bas. never been in so good con.dition for service. as now. Most of her firemen are good mechanics, and will be ubl~, with the means ;~t their di1$posal~ to make any repairs case, of mistiap) w.hich can be .effected at sea.

'in

·

I afn, air, very respectfully, yom.: obe<li~nt servant, , F. I\.. :MURRAY;

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

, Lieutenant· Commanding Steamer Jefferson.
Prof. A. D.
BACHE,

Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey, 'ff/asltington.

PHILADELPHIA, 1·,ebrua!y 28, 1861. Sm: At the request of Mr. Alden, who wished to witness the performance of the Jefferson under way, I made a trip in her to Newcastle on the 25th instant. Ile has, I preeume, informed you of its result, which was perfectly satisfactory, except in one particular-the large consumption of fuel; it having been consumed at the rate of ten tons per. day; l endose a report of the enginee1 in charge, recpmmending,an

S. Doc.

3·~

. . . . .. . . .
Prof: A. D. BACHE, . Superintendent Coast· Suri·ey, Wasliington.,
APPENDIX No ·. 615.

alteration which will-tend to economise it; and as time \VR8 Mt nllowt~d to communicate with you, I have authorized-'the work, which be completed to-morrow;' · With twenty-six liounds of ·steam, making· twenty-one nnd a 'hnlf revolutions pei: minute, the JeflC~rson came up froril Newcastle at the rate of ten knots per hour, agi1inst wind and tide, and showed more stability UJ.?der· sail than I had expected. The wind being fresh and flu.wy from northwest 1 gave an excellent opportunity to test her capacity to curry canvass.

wm

·~

I um, sir, very respectfolly, your obedimt servant,· FRANS. KEY MUll]lAY, Lieutenant Commandi11g i8t<:t1mer Jcjji:raon.

Rcpo1·t to tlie assistant in cka.rge of the Coast Surnc!I Of!icc qn tl1c oloctro-r ty1Ji11g opcmtiona of tlte Coast Survey, by George Afatltiot, clectrotypist.
Er.ECTRO'l'YPE LABORATORY, CoAsT SunvEY 01~PJCE,

Waslri11gt01i; November 29, 1851. Sm: Jn compliance with youi: requ~st, I present the following report of the electrotype art as now practised in this otlice. Most of tlie apparll.tus and processes here used arc entirely new. To clearly exhibit the udvantuges derived from their introduction, it will be necessary ·to. consider the scientific. principles involved in their
DEAR

use, and also to take a curs01y view of the history of the electrotyping
urL .

The art of working metals by electric currents is of very recmt introduction; and, although it has advanced with great rapidity, it is yet, :perhaps, but in a state of infancy in its applicnt1011s, and of crude~ ness in the modes of conducting it. The electro-de{>ositiou of metals was observed by most cxperimen:ters with the vo taic buttery. As early as 1804 electro-gilding had been successfolly practised; but tho idea of making castin&s by clC'C· tric cnnents does not seem to have occurred to any one previous to the introduction ot Daniel's battery, to which elcctro-cAsting is inCidentul. After tho intl'oduction of Daniel's buttery, it simultaneously occured to several persons that electric currents might he used to make castings c~f a finer ~incl than were obtained by melting and r.ouring. Prop.osit1ons to tlns effect ure about 1ill that can he attributed to the r1v11l claimants for the invention of electro-metallurgy; for neither the English nor Russian philosopher reveilled. what had not been known before. Yet to Jacobi arid Spencer is due the merit of having called public'· attention to the subject; for in doing'tha.t, they have c?nforre~ beJilefit's on the world greater,· perhaps, than by making a.n ong'lll(ll discovery.

After the publications of Jacobi und of Spencer bud culled the ntten-

S. ))oc. 3.
tion of the scientific world to the new art,. the principles inyolvi:i4; }n it
became the study of several emiuent ph1losopners, who disclosed th~ methods to be followed for obtaining reguline metal. Atler this, several departments of electro-metallurgy rapidly advanced. Electroplating, and the . multiplication oC pages Qf. lettj;:r-press work, as.,pages of type, and wood cut~, (electro-s.ter~typing,) were soon extensively practised; but·the oopymg of the dehcate touches of the copper-plate engraver (the electrotype proper) was beset with diffic111ties. On Ile.count of the great value of the engraved plate, together with the risk of its being destroyed in the attempt to copy it, and the uncertainty as to whet&er the duplicate would have good metallic properties, even if the operator should have the good fortune to o}?tain one,· this deJ?artment of the art; (the first and n:iost beautiful of: Spencer's. sugge~t1ons) was allowed to rest as an expenment or be confined to articles of small size and value.

Adhesion of dcposite to matrix.
Electro-metallurgy requires that the deposited metal should have .an its cohesive properties. If such a deposite pf copper is made on a clean plate ot copper, it is obvious th.at the deposited metal will cohere with the plate on which it is made, and an efaborntely eng111ved plate would thus be convei:te<l into a ma-e mri.ss of metal. The electrotype art, therefore, ca'nnot exist before 'means · are provided for preventing · this destructM~ adhesion. V ar1ous plans for overcoming. this difficul~y h'.lve been proposed. these, however, have a common feature, which is to prevent the do'pos1te and matrix from touching by means of an intervening film of hetero. geneous matter.· : · Mr: Smee proposes to us.e that coating of air which adheres so firmly to polished metals,· (so strikingly exhibited when the attempt is made to wet a polished knife-blade.) 'l'o obtain the air coating, he.directs that, after every attachment has been made to the plate, it be placed in a cool and moist cellar for a few days before introducing it into the electrotype vat. ·· ·~ 8moke, bin.ck lead, oils, and powders, and wax, have also been proposed for covering the face of the plate. 'l'he method used in the British ordnance survey is perhaps the best of all these. This is conducted as follows: 'i'he plate 1s first well oiled, and the oil well wiped away with soft bread. 'l'he plate is then heatecho above the tempero.t~re of. melting wax, and a ·cake of ·white wax pl'essed against. the edge. The oil having removed the air from the·-pfate, the wax will fl.ash over it in an-extremely thin sheet or film ·. All excess of wax is then to be wiped away with a fine linen cloth, free from lint. The plate must be left to cool before introducing it into the va.t. · · 'fo smear the face of the finely engraved plate is in opposition to.the fundamental .idea of the electrotype, which is that of atomic casting. In the process of Mr. Smee, air bubbles will be retained in the fine lines of the graving, thus mutilating the copy; moreover, the face of the new

411

S. Doc .. 3.
p,late is waved fromthe agitation of the stratum of air.when receh·ing tl:te first portion of copp~r. . · . . ~n the waxing .process it is almost impossible to free every line from excess of wax. Even days of tedious application do not it,sure perfoction. In addition to the coarseness oi these various methods, they are extremely uncertain to wh,ether they effect the ,purpose for' which ' .. · ·. ' · they ore applied. It was always observed that if the deposited metal was not deficient in mechanical properties, it stuck very hard to the original, and the plates: had to be subjected to violent jarring, heating, and beating, to separate them.· But if the deposited metal was of very fine quality~ then most likely the. deposite was inseparably united to it; From these Circumstances attending the adhesion of the deposite, it occurred to me that, when the cohesive· force.'was but foebly developed in the deposited metal, then the force of cohesion or ·homogeneous attraction could not extend the distance presented by the thickness of the film of heterogeneous matter between the . plates; but that 'vhen these forces were .;well developed, the spheres of homo~eneous attraction of each plate ·;would extend through the wax·or air film. , , · lt may be proper here to reJ,Uark: that the above views of .ndhesion have' been applied to another depurtment.Of electto-metRllurgy' with the most gratitymg success. , · · , . · . In electro-plating tqe difficulty of obtaining a firm adhesion of the film of precious metal is entirely obviated by making ~uch arrange~ ments as insure a rapid ·aepos'ition of highly du<?ti~e.metnl at the moment the article to be plated is ,immersed in the. electro.type~ . In considering the sticking of the p~ates, after homogeneous attraction or cohcsi.on, hetero~eneous attraction or adhesion dcm11nds attention; two similar bodies may be separated by a film of: 'heterogeneous matter, which binds them more firmly together .tlmn their particles are held together by cohesion, as we see iri the use of cements. 'l'his force is ·very powerful between some. bodies, while. between others it is very slight. Air ndher~s very strongly to m~tals, as before reforred io; hence a film of air may unite two copper: plates, even thoulJh they are separated beyond the. distance at which cohesive at-· tractmn takes place. Wax is a comn~n ingredient in cements; its adhesive properties have become proverbial; its use is evidently improper. Therefore a .sub· t;tance having a strong adhesive attrachon for the plates must not be on the foce, and the cohesive force of the surface particles must be sus~ pended by other tnethods thun making the deposited ml'tul"cle6cient in mechanical properties. lt was hoped that a substance could be found that wouad act uniformly and gently on the surface of the engraved plate, nnd, in destroying the homogeneous attraction of the surface ;particles, would, by chemical union with them, form an insoluble und fr1able compound, having but a slight adhesion to the plate. I was led to select iodine for the experi· tnent on account of its sparing solubility in wnter, its high equivalent number, and innoxious qualities. A copper plate was well cleaned, ·exposed to the vapor of iodine, and electrotyped; the deposite separated

as

for

S. Doc. 3.
from it,readily. This was repeated some hundred times w1th invaria.. ble success. . It was found, in cleaning large plates for the application of.the iodine vapor, that while one part of the plate was being cleaned, another part would tarnish, and hence a uniform action of tlie iodine could not be obtained. This led to silveringthc plates before iodir.ing, which facilitated the cleaning and exhibited the action of the n::iligen. A silvered plate was wushed. with an alcoholic solution of iodine and electrotype4; ·the electrotype separated from the matrix yet more readily than before, the iodide of silver serving better to prevent adhesion than the iodide of copper. . . But it was 130011 observed that a {)late prepared on a dull day did not sepa~ate ~o riadio/ as. one prepare( L~nd?r a bri~ht sky, and on exp~ri mentmg it was found that a plate 10cl1zed anU. exposed to sunshine would separate .with very great facility; .w bile fl. plate iodized on a rainy day, and placed in a dark room for a. few hours before introducing, .it into the vat, might stick so hard as to require some of the old resorts of heating and jarring to sepa:nite it fi«m1 the matrix. ., The proc;css of iodizing and exposing; 1:0 light has now been applie4 to a very great extent of finely cngrave<;L surf.Ucc, rind in no case hi!s the. least. difficulty been found in lifting one plate off the other when the requisite thickness }~ad hocn obtained. ·. · . · . . >.· · · . I am· aware that it may be thot,ght .that the 10<J.me acts only by mtervening between the platt!r;; hut ~he qnantiiy 'of iodine applied to a plate must· be thought insuffioient to effect it by mere mechamcal s'eparaticm when we consider tho'large quantity of silex and carbon found in .ordi~ nary ·copper. · If but one ounce of copper be dissolved from a square foot of ordinary plate, a 'VPry heavy deposite of impurities is Jell, (some~ tinies 15 per cent.,) and the quantity of wax which may be applied to 11 plate; andJail to prevent sticking, is ten thousand times more than the quantity of iodine which: prevents it. · ·. In preparing our largest plates, having ten square fce,t of face, I use a s(')ltition of one grain of iodine in twenty tho1:1sand grains of strong alcohol. If qne grain of the solution is require~! to wet a square foot, it wi.ll ·~ive but l'oinnr of U; .s.,>Tai:i ?f iodine on u: square foot. ~ut as the i~dme evaporates. rapHll.y with the alcohol, probably tbe actunl quantity. on .a square foot does not ,exc!'lcd one-hundr~d:thousandth part 'l'aking the weight of a cubic ~nch of icidine at 1,250 grains, and sup· posing that it ·remains on the silver surface in its elementary state, mstead of forming iodide of silver, then we have 1,260X144 X 100,000== 1 s,000,000,000, only one-eighteen-thousand-millionth part of an inc}) for the thickness of the coating ·Of iodine. Even if "'~e suppose that the, solar rays decompose the iodide of silver, and leave the iodine in vapor on the plate, it willstill be only one-forty-four-millionth part of an inch~ thicknes& to be taken l;tS nothing in a mechanical view. To test the effect of the chemical method of preventing adhesion on the sharpness of the engraved lines, an engraving was seven times sue· cessively .tnmsferred from plflte to plate, when the closest inspection ·.failed to show any inferiorit;y: of' impressions from the last plate as,.c()R),. pared with those from the brst. ,

of a gram.

, .

.

S. Doc. 3. Time and c.xpcnsc ef clcctro-ca.~ting.

545

Next in importance to securing a certain and easy separation of the matrix and casting is bringing the entire time and expense of electrotyping within the nan·o\vest limits. Mr. Smee an<l others have shown that the quality of electro-metal is determined by certain relations between the rapidity of formin!Y the plate and the strength of the solution in which it is formed. Botl1 the common operations of the elcctro-mctnllurgist, and the improvement.a he proposes, must conform to these relations. As sm~tll quantities of electricity arc easily set in motion, small-sized electro-castings arc readily made in six or eight days. To make huge castings in u short time requires a powerful current. To accomplish the corresponding augmentation in the cffoctive electric action has proved a somewhat difficult matter. At the date of the "Aide Memoirc to the Military Sciences," it is stated thnt in the ordnance survey 011C pound of copper was deposited in twenty-four hours on a plate of eight square foct, t.he plates being made duetile enough to bear hmiunering only by continued agitation of the electrolytic solutions. At this rate, to ma.Im a plate one-eighth of nn inclr thick will require forty-five days. So far as I am informed, the above performance has not been execlled, ns to quality and time, on large work uuywhcrc prior to being attained us now to be described . . ~l'h~ first and most: obvious sug{{CHtion for inc;r~nsing tho ra~te of deros1t10n is to enlarge the buttery; this, however, is mcapuble of producmg the desired encl. 'l'o presc~t this subject in a clear nnd satisfactory manner, I will make use of the celebrated formula of Profossor Ohm, who deduced from mathematical rcr~.soning, ancl established by expcrimc·zit, that the cffoctive·force of tho current from any battery wus directly ns tho electromotive force, and inversely as the resistuuce offored to that current. E To express this, lw gave the ec1uatio11 ir+;~. =(~, in which E represents tho electromotive force, or nffinity ol' ncid for zinc, nncl R+r tho resistance to the current gcnomtctl by ilmt force; H representing the resistance offorcd to it from the liquid contained botwccu tlin positive and nc$ative elements of the battery, und r the resistnncc offurcd hy the object on which the battery is working, and Q the amount of work executed, or the quantity of tho current obtairnxl. 'l'he resistance c)f conductors has been found to be directly as the length, and inversely as tho section. So fa1· as concerns frll'm of urrangcrnent, E is constant, for. the materials used, as it depo11cls on their ~hcmical relations, (~ can therefore be favorably affected only by varying U or r. Now, as U represents the resistance of tho liquid contained between the battery plate§, to increase the size of the plates is only to increase the section of the liquid, or, in other words. to diminish the resistance represented by It The ex-

E

.

.

pression,. it+r =Q, shows that, if tl~e resistance in the battery .is small
35

546

S. Doc: 3.

compared to the externl?l resistance, the gain of effect from enlarging ,the buttery plates is but small. To determine the relative value of R, as compared \\'ith r, a lmttery was constructed so as to collect and measure the gas evolved by its action. The· plates were placed in contact with each other, and the gas evolved in thirty minutes taken as a unit of effect. As in this case the .current did not pass through anything but the battery, there is no resistance to be represented by r, or r in the formula will be equal to 0

and Q=R =1.
The battery was then attached to a pair of electrodes, in a certain 'solution of sulphate of copper and sulphuric acid, especially recommended by all the writers on electro-metallurgy, the arrangement being Mch as to produce good meta1. The gas now evolved in thirty minutes was found only one-twentieth of the former .amount; hence the intro. duction of the resistance, r, had d~minished Q twenty times, and E 1 E R+r = Q R, whence r is equal to 19 R. To exhibit the effect of

E

=2o

.

1

battery enlargement, we now have

Q=1:-+·19·
Ill

Ifm=l, thenQ==.05;

if m=2, Q=.0612; if m=3, Q=.0518; if m=4, Q=.01524,, &c., &c. This shows a gain of only a fortieth from doubling the size of the battery, &c.-an advantage too small to repay for the enlargement.. These calculations are in accordance with experimental results from small batteries, but in large ones the necessity of further separating the plates, in increasing their size, makes the resistance increase, instead of diminish, and there IS ~onsequently a loss from enlargement. It is not, therefore, by merely increasing the buttery surface that the.time for electrotyping can be shortened. Mr. Smee, the distinguished writer on electro-metallurgy, by covering the negative plate of t.he br~ttery with pulverulent platinui:11 1:rroduced a very energetic form of the mstrument. When the plate IS freshly platinized, it acts violently, and throws off the hydrogen in torrents. But this increased energy of the plate is gradually lost, from the electrive current depositing upon it impurities from the zinc. As this dcposite has a strong attraction for the hydrogen, it is retained on the plate. 'l'he plate, being thus encased in air, is virtually excluded from the liquid of the battery. The ordinary solvents of the metals do not readily remove this coating of impurity. The plate can be renewed by rcplatinization; but, as this is both tedious and expensive; I was ·urged to find a menstruum which would restore the original platinum to its energy. This I attained, at length, by immersing the plate in a solution of per-chloride of iron, which almost immediately restores the action of the plate. · 'l'he plates arc now daily immersed in the chloride of iron, by which the tone of the battery is constantly maintained. By this last discovery, together with obtaining better solutions for the decomposing cell, the time for making a casting was reduccc;l; but still

.S. Doc. 3.

547

the time required for making a plate was too long when only one electrical equivalent was employed. The effective force of one battery may he added to another. This is increasin~ E in the formula, and this will sometimes increase Q. . We umte the effoctive force of many batteries by joining their dissim.ilar ends in consecutive order. As the current in such an arrangement has to traverse every battery in the chain, R will be multiplied as many times as we multiply E. The formula- then becomes Q = n E_". When the n Il+r value of r and R are nearly equal, nnd we huve batteries of definite construction to work with, it becomes a matter of some importance to determine whether we shall use the whole galvanic apparatus, ns a single electrical equivalent, by connecting all the similar pnTts of all the battery .cells, or whether we shall convert it in~o a battery of two pairs, in consecutive order, by joining dissimilar ends. ·As doubling the battery is doublin~ R, and to double the electrical equivalents is also to double R, we shall increase R fourfold by the double arrangement. Instead of Q
Q = .60 in the single arrangement, and Q = .40 in the double-showing that we ma.y double the expense, and yet make the casting more slowly than before. Conditions us a.hove nre of frc<iuent occmrcnec, and a knowledge of them without experimenting is of very grout importance. . ' 1 For R 10 r, with u single equivalent of battery, Q - = 0.0909. 1+10 ..

·

E = --R+r

we have Q

2E = ----. 4R+r

'fakina R = r we have

'"'

·

=

=-

For two batteries in series Q = ~ = 0.166. 'The use of two batte2+10 ries in consecutive order, as thus exhibited, doubles the expense, but does not double the effect. A regard for economy prohibits us from further E increasing the series. To represent tm effect double of . --- we have

·

R+r

2(RE+r) =

2~~r·
2

As dividing R by 2 is doubling the battery

surface, we may now make Q = .183. 'The gain per cent., now indicated by doubling the surface, makes it advantageous to make this increase when two consecutive batteries are used. The difficulty of obtaining large flat plates of silver proved u serious obstacle in effectin&' un increase of buttery surface, for the irregularity of the surface reqmrcs the plate to be placed at an increased distance from .the zinc, thereby augmenting lt, the very thing sought to be diminished. Plates could be made fiat by .the planishing hammer; but the opera.:. tion being expensive, and the plates continually liable to accidents in use, economy prohibited this mode of forming fiat plates. 'l'hous-h the plating of metallic bodies with silver had been well executed, it ·hud not yet been determined that electro-casting of silver could be executed

548

.s.

·Doc. 8.

in a desirable manner, and at a moderate expense and trouble. At first, every attempt to make plates weighing 2,600 grains to the square f>ot failed, on account of the impossibility of observing Mr. Smee's laws relative to E for the time required. · But afrer modifying the solutions of silver, and using a register battery, a plate could be made in thirty hours, perfectly fiat, and possessing the mechanical flualities of hardness, elasticity, and malleability, in an eminent degree, and uot costing over 1G cents per ounce for the making. The perfectly flat plates admit of a very close approximation to the zincs. Their size may therefore be increased to more than twice their former surface. As in the double arrangement, r is relatively smaller to R. Important changes have also been made in the modes of operating, and in the_grrarigement of the apparatus. It had early been noticed that ·changes of temperature influenced the rate of working; and every dee~ tro-metallurgist knows the importance of keeping tlJC laboratory warm. To determine where and how the effect of temperature took place, a battery, at 60 degrees of Fahrenheit, was connected with a wire 120 feet long, and enclosing a galvanometer. The deflection was 40 det,rrees ; the battery was then cooled until the temperature was 48°; the needle wi1s still deflected nearly 40 degrees. This experiment indicated that the batteries were not greatly affected by ordinary variations of temperature. Advantage was then taken of this development to secure a more perfect ventilation. Accordingly, a small room, to contain the battery, was partitioned off from the general apartment by a glass partition, and largo outward openings mudc at .the top and at the bottom of the room, to give a circulation of air for carrymg off the battery fumes. · At the stage of improvement now described, one of our medium plates, having 8 square foct of surface, could he readily made in from 8 to 10 days. But wishing to still further quicken the process, or attain my'first desire-to dcpositc one rwund per day on the square foot, with a single equivalent of battery-improvements were again sought after. As the E of the formula has been mcreased to the greatest extent the cost would permit, and r had been diminished, or the plates increased in size to the greatest usefol extent, it was sought to increase Q by ·(liminishing r, or the electrolytic resistance. It was sougl1t to increase the conduc.:ting power of the electrolyte by adding eusily decomposable ~ults to it; but with no success. The accelerating cffoct of temperature l1cing found, as above stated, to bo confined chiefly to the decomposition cell, it was evident that by using the electrolyte alone, at a high temperature, a considerable advantage might ensue. To determine the most advantageous working temperature, and the resulting gain of effect, a voltamcter battery was connected to 11 pair of electrodes, in the solution formerly described as being generally recommended. Each electrode had five square inches of face, and was coated on the back to prevent radiation. They were placed one inch :ipart, and had thin plates of wood bound ngainst their edges, to }.?.revent any latera.I spread of the current in passing between them. .fl1e fhllowing was then obtained:

S. Doc. 3.
Battery plate in contact gave 300 cubic inches gas per hour. do. du. do. Electrodes in.contact do. 216 Current through electrolyte, at 58°, gave 16 cubic in. gas per h. 60° do. 20 do. do. Do. do. Do. do. 100° do. 27 do. do. do. 176° do. 37 do. do. Do.

649
23.15 18.15 13 8.96

The last column of figures shows the value of the resistance of the solution, as compared with R. of the formula. 'l'his column was obtained by first uniting the battery plates, and uftcrwm·ds the electrodes. From the above table it appears that heat may be made to diminish the resistance in the decomposition cell in the proport.ion of 2.68 to 1 ; and the whole resistance by 2.26. And as

.

1t+r = lt+r; therefore, by

2E

~

2 heating the electrolyte, we may with a single electrical equivalent i;nake a plate as rapidly as by working at atmospheric temperatures with two batteries in consecutive order, with double surfaces, (four times the battery and twice the expense.) But as Smee's laws require that, in forming a plate, certain mutual conditions of apparatus be maintained, it follows that alterations in one element or condition must be attended by corresponding changes in the others. Hence, if the temperature of the electrolyte be raised to a certain point, and the npparatus correspondingly adjusted, it is evident that, to avoid incessant adjustment, the original temperature must be maintained. Thus, to avail ourselves of the advantages experimentally found from heating the solutions, an apparatus for steadily maintaining a high temperature in the electrolyte through several successive days becomes indispensable. As the electroty.I,Je operations arc not suspended nt night, it is important that the heatmg apparatus should perform its office for at least twelve hours without supervision or replenishing its focl; and its action should be sensibly uniform, during ull the time, between successive replenishings. Such an apparatus I have devised, and is now in use, A peck of charcoul furnishes fi.iel for twelve hours, and maintains 100 gallons of copp~r solutions steadily, at any .required point between 100° and 200°. W Ith the above arrangement m use, I have made a lnrge reverse or alto, and returned the orisinal to the engraving clepnrtment, in 65 hours from its being placed m my hands. This time included trimming the ed~es and the preparations to prevent adhesion. Agam recurring to Ohm's formula, the relative value of R to r was once more experimentally found. This gave R: r :: 1 : 4 or

Q=l ~ 4 =0.20, a great improvement as compared with the first determination ofR: r :: 1 : 19, or Q. small compared with It, the size of the buttery can be profitably increased until the result is about 0.24. Moreover, using a double arrangement

1 ~ 19 =0.0o.

Having now made r so

550

s~·

Doc. 3:

of cells with double surfaces, for a double effect, we now have
2 . . 1 ) 2 ( 1+ = + =0.40. As the relative resistance of the electrolyte 2 4 4 becomes now still smaller, we may yet inore increase the battery surface until the result is nearly 0;15. · The electrotype has· now ceased to be a mere experiment, uncertain, expensive, and slow. I have lately formed plates of most excellent quality, at the rate of 3 lbs. to the square foot, in 24 hours. This rate will reguire but two days to form one of our largest plates, having ten square feet surface, and one-eighth of an inch thick. ·

Actions in tlte electrolytic solution.
The quantity of the deposited metal is governed solely by the relations between the quantity of electricity :passing through any solution and the amount of metal the solution contams. The usual supposition is, that the acid of the salt goes to one electrode and the metal to the other. It is now ascertained that no such mutual transfor takes place ; for, w bile the acid is carried to the positive electrode, the metal is not carried to the negative electrode. Hence, however strong the solution on commencing the process, the negative electrode, by abstracting the metal in its vicinity, is soon surrounded with a weak solution. With a simple wire electrode, the exhausted solution surrounding the electrode is readily renewed by mere difference of specific gravity producing a flow. But, with large parallel plate electrodes, this rapid renewal of dense solution becomes unpossible, and the electrode is soon surrounded with a weak solution. This state of things must be recognised in adjusting our battery arrangements. Electrotypists not aware of this fact find themselves much perplexed by failing to accomplish with large plates what is so easily done with medals or small plates. It would, at iirst sight, appear that, by strengthening the solution of sulphate .of copper, a more rapid supply of metal to the electrode would be obtained. Unfortunately, the effect of this is to diminish the solvent capacity of the water in the solution for the sulphate formed on the positive electrode by the action of the transforred acid. The grand essential in electrolysis is liquidity in the solution. 'I'hus, if the quantity of free water surrounding the.positive electrode be small, this electrode is soon enveloped in a saturated solution, and the newly-formed salt remains undissolved upon it. This salt, being a non-conductor, virtually excludes the electrode from the solution, and thus arrests the current, except when the efflux of saturated solution permits the salt to. dissolve, and so reopens the passage for the current in irregular quantities. From this spasmodic action result plates of copper-s1U1d, or sometimes copper as soft as lead. By applying heat to the solution when this state of things exists, the solvent capacity of the water for the salt is increased, rapid diffosion takes place, the salt is carried to the negative electrode, and the exhausted water to the positive electrode ; the dormant batteries rush into uninterrupted action, and in a short time a plate is deposited, having all the hardness and elasticity of hammered or rolled copper. Smee's conditions, then, seem to maintain themselves. Tho electrotypiste·

S. Doc.

a~

axiom of "work slowly," requires to be reversed into" the quicker the work, the better the quality."

. Laboratory apparatu.~.
Figure I is a plan of the coast survey electrotype Ju bor{ltmy. The. glazed partition, b, b, b, 6, with a door, d, separates the battery room frorr~ the general laboratory, nnd permits nn easy inspection of the batteries, without exposure to their fomcs. The laboratory floor is about six feet above the ground, and slopes inward from the sides towards the scuttle holes, lt, It, lt, lt, arranged for discharging the waste liquids spilled upon the floor. 'l'o obviate the deleterious effects of working on a floor saturated with chemical agents, when an~ .solutions arc spilled, the floor ·is well floocled and brushed, the water passmf7 off thrnugh the scuttle holes. Thero are four battery cells, placccl as i11d1cutecl, D, D, B, B. A rec., tangular India-rubber bng, supported by a deep wooden box, contain$ the battery solutions. Each cell can contain nme silver und eight zinc plates. A metallic ?onncxion unites all the zinc plates of a ct:ll! and another one all the silver plates. Ench cell cun be used as an md~ pendent battery, or two, three, or four cells can be connected in consecutive or simultaneous order, or all combined into two pairs of two ju consecutive or simultaneous order; or into one group of three and one of one. '!'he position of the vertical decomposing vat is shown at V 1 and that of the horizontal vat at II. S is u large tub for washing plates. The tub C contains the solution of chloi·idc of iron. Q is the quicksilvci; tub, and W, W, arc fresh water tubs. F is the furnace, and d, d, c, c, arc heating tubes connecting with the vat II. T is a flat iron table. Fi~" 2 exhibjts a cell and its incluclcd plates, with their mode of sus':" pension. Fig. 3 represents the suspending frame of wood und the attached plate, P, prcpl.li-cd for immersion in the vertical vut. Fig. 4 shows the vcrl.icul vat and the plates suspended in it. Fig. {j represents the adjustable plate-supporting frame used in the horizontal vat. Fig. 6 exhibits the interior arrangement of the horizontal vut1 a blnnk plate and nn engraved originul being in position; also the connecting copper wires leading to the battery. Fig. 7 represents tho heating fornnce. The cloor for admitting air i~ shown at a,, and is so connected with an m\justing compound bur of iron uncl zinc that by nn adjusting scre\v it can be arnmgcd to rogulutc the drau$'ht, opening or closing the door, thus maintaining a uniform heat in the solution. After getting the fire started, this door is set so as to dose when tho solution roaches a heat of 160°. In principle this furnace is similar to u bu.th-heatc1·. A tubular helix of lead is coiled withill it like the worm of a still, uud the terminating brnnchcs c and d lead to the horizontal vat, the braneh c uniting the top of the vat just below the li9uid surface with the hottmn of tlw coil, and d the bottom of the vat with the top of the coil. Hence follows 11 circulation of the solution from ~he fornace ut top and into it at bottom.

S. Doc. 3.
Manipulation.

When a plate is to be' deetrotyped, it is placed on trestles al)ove the open scuttle holes, h, h, h, It, and thoroughly cleaned by washing with alkalies and acids. It is then silvered, iodized, and placed before a window. A plate of rolled copper an inch larger than the engraved plate is then selected, placed on the flat iron table, and beaten with mallets until a steel straight edge shows it to be plane. It is then weighed and fixed in the vertical plate frame by two copper hooks. The engraved plate is then similarly fixed in a similar frame, w·hcn both are placed in a vertical vat and conrwcted with the battery. The process does not go on well when the plates are vcrtical;but it is necessary to start the castings in this position to prevent dust, motes, or specks of impurities, from settling on the face. As the rolled plate dissolves, its impurities rapidly render the solution muddy, and endanger the face of the forming plate. For common electrotypes dust or mote specks are not detrimental; but the coast survey copper plates being not inforior in fineness of lines to fine steel plates, the effect of impurities settling on the face of their copies is to give the impressions a clouded appearance. On first immersing the plate, the solution should, thc1efore, be perfectly clean. Formerly, after each use of the vertical vat, it was emptied and washed out. When the. solution had deposited its sediment it was drawn off and strained through very fine cotton. 'l'his whole operation was extremely disagreeable, and consumed a whole dav of one man. By a simple expedient I have saved the necessity of cleaning the vat oftener than once a. month. To guard the new plate from specks and impurities, a bag of fine cotton is drawn over a slight wooden frame, wnich keeps it distended. An hour or mow before tbe solution is wanted, the bag, with its included frame, is placed on top of the solution and loadect with the copper bars u,;ed to support the plate frames. The weight causes the bag to sink gradually, filtering the contained solution as it goes down. The impurities cannot wholly choke the meshes of the cloth, as a fresh portion is constantly brou15ht into action during the sinking. I thus filter the solution without takmg it from the vat or disturbing the sediment, saving much labor, time, and annoyance. 'l'he plate remains in the vertical vat over nig'ht, and preparations are made in the morning to transfor it to the horizontal vat. 'l'hc furnace is first brought into action. A new plate of blank copper, an inch larger than the matrix, is flattened on the iron table, and bolted to the edges of wooden bars by ,platinum bolts, for the purpose of. preventing the plate from sagf?ing downwn,rds when supported llorizontally. 'l'hc} plate so arranged is called the strapped plate. The coated matrix is then taken from the vertical vat, disengaged from its frame, and arranged in the horizontal frame. A wooden wall, an inch high, then surrounds the plate, and in this wall the strapped plate is luul, when the whole combination is placed in the horizontal vat and the connexion with the battery established. '!'he positive plate is then tuken from tho verticnl vat and its loss of weight noted and recorded. From the known iuperficial area of the matrix, tho quantity of copper required for a casting one-eighth of an inch thick is computed and recorded. The

S. Doc. 3.

553 ..

blank copper consumed in both vats must equal this amount before the required tbickness is reached, allowance being .mo.de for impuriti~s of rolled copper and roughness on the back of the electrotype. After n few hours of action the strapped plate becomes so loaded with impurities that they will begin to drop on the electrotype; this plate must, therefiJre, be removed from tho vat and a now one immediately supplied. Tho dirty plate is then washed.in the large water tub, and when cleaned its loss of weight is found and recorded. By the amount of loss the action of the batteries is tested, nnd it is found, if Smco's laws are being observed. Vigilance must now be exercised in watching the batteries and rate of work, and the power must be varied to suit circumstances. The entire working buttery generally requires renewal once a day, the process being conducted as follows : One zinc and one silver plate are taken from the battery; the silver placed in the solution of chloride of iron, and the zinc taken to the water tub outside the door of the battery room, where it is scrubbed clean with a hard brush. It is then reamalgumated at the quicksilver tub, and taken buck to the buttery. The silver plate is transferred from the chloride of iron solution to the a<ljacent fresh water tub. Another silver plate is then transferred from the battery to the chloride solution, and another zinc cleaned, washed, and put hack in the battery with the first silver. In this manner the whole buttery can be renewed without sensibly interrupting its uction. When the loss of weight from the rolled copper in both vnts indicates that the required thickness of the electrotype is gained, the plate is withdrawn from the battery, detached from its frame, its back smoothed, and its edges filed, until a separation can be made. By separation, the original becomes liberated, und the alto or reversed relief is silvered and electrotyped exactly us an original. '!'he copy fhnn it, or the electrotyped basso, will, if the process has been properly conducted, be H. perfoct foe-simile of the original, and in hardness, ductility, and elasticity, will equal the best rolled and hammered or planished copper plate. Yours, res pcctfolly, GEORGE MA TI-HOT. Major I. I. STEVENS,

Assistant in cliarge

of office.

APPENDIX No. 66.
Report of Lieutenant Washington A. Bartlett, U. S. N., assistant in the coast s1trvcy, to the Suvcrintendent, on the examination of tltc reefs in llell Gate cliannel, and cltanges 11rod1tccd by blasting.
Nmv Y01rn:, December 4, 1851. Sm: In mY. previous reports on the improvements bein~ made in Hell Gate chnnnel, by the operations of Mons. Maillefort, fac1litutcd by adva~ces from citizens of New York, I lu~ve endeavored to. k~ep you ?-dv1s~d ?f the progress of the; work, and its probable effect· m improvmg tlns important channel of mgress to N cw York harbor. I am now enabled to lay before you results actually obtained, which
n·EAR

664

S. Doc.

3~

have substantially improved the navigation of the "Gate;" reduced.the risk of passing throu!?'h it; and which will very considerably modify the sailing directions which appear on the first edition of the coast survey chart of Hell Gate, and its approaches. Referring to the reports made to you by Lieutenant Cmnmanding Chas. H. Davis, United States navy, on the 15th February, and of Lieutenant Commanding D. D. Porter, on the 30th of October, 1848; the great advantages which they so ably discussed, and so confidently expected would ensue when the effort should be made. as proposed, l am happy to say are now being realized. · . A close attention to all they suggested as the basis of operations, and the exertions of Mr. Maillefort and Mr. Eben Meriam, based on those reports and surveys, have most conclusively demonstrated to me-so far as the work has progressed-the clear perceptions of those able affieers in their suggestions for the improvement of the channel. It only required Mr. Maillefcrt's effective method of overcoming the local difficulties involved in any attack on Pot rock to make the work · · · effective. The results are a.ltogether favorable. The first in order, and the principal obstruction in Hell Gate, is Pot roclc, on which I found but eight feet of water at low tide; the average depth, however, was about ten feet; the rock at the least depth being about.six feet square, deepening to fourteen feet on the east and wes.t sides, and suddenly to four fathoms on the north and south. · · At half tides the depth of water does not increase on Pot rock, as there is at least a fall of fuitr feet, and a vessel drawing over eight feet must strike upon it. "A full-rigged brig struck it three days since, and went down with a valuable cargo on board." Tliis obstruction once removed, Hell Gate would be lcs.~ .dangerous by onekalf, "and the eddies, which are now the cause of half the difficulties, would in a measure dis11ppear." I have quoted us above Lieutenant Commanding Porter, United States navy, for the purpose of saying that his observations have been most folly sustained by the present condition of Pot rock, nncl that the vast-I might almost say the incalculable advantnges to be derived for all fotµre time from the reduction of this rock, cause it to be considered by all who have occasion to pass through this channel as of ·inestimable value. It cannot now be said that a vessel drawing only eight feet of water will strike, f~r tltcrc are not less titan .eigl~tccn fe~t water on any par~ of the rock at low t1<le; and the prospect is highly favorable to the belief that M. Maillefert will soon have lowered it to twent:Y foet, a depth which in my opinion is amply sufficient for all the reqmrements of the Hell Gate channel. The advantages derived from the increased depth of water on Pot rock are as follow: · 1st. Vcssels drawing sixteen feet water can pass over it with impunity at any time of tide, and any frigate in the navy can do so at high water. 2d. The increased facility for the passage of the rapid current of the flood-tide over the top of Pot rock prevents that high und violent obul lition of the water which formerly existed to the imminent danger of ull

S: Doc~ 3~
small vessels (though they might not hit the rock itself) which were thrown within its influence; while it prevents that wrid eddy, or return current, which formerly existed, and which threw al boats or "small craft" which once entered it into the very centre of the "Pot," and then en()'ulphed them. ·The dangers to be apprehended from these causes (or if averted, encountering others in avoiding them) compelled all mariners to so direct their course through the Gate as to give the "Pot" as wide a berth as possible; and this wide steering aguin produced other difficulties equally attributable to it, hut which otherwise could be easily avoided. Lieutenant Commanding Porter justly said thut, "Pot rock once removed, Hell Gate would be less dangerous by one-half, and the eddies, which are now the cause of hulf the difliculties, would in a measure disappear." The sketches which have been furnished of my examinations of Pot rock, during the progress of its demolition, have shown that it is at a mean depth of twenty foet at low water, one hundred und thirty foet in length, and thirly feet in average width. Before blasting, the least depth extended over a surface six foet square, while the average depth (vide Lieuteni;iut Porter's report) was about ten feet. \Vith these facts before mo, I have estimated that not less than (30,000) thirty tliousund cubic feet of rock (hard gneiss) have been broken up, ·und scattered from the upper portions of tho rock, by firing two hundred ancl twenty sub-m:uine charges, of one hundred and twenty-five pounds each, witliout drilling. 'fhis is equal to one hundred and thirty-five cubic feet of rock being removed at each blast; which calculation agrees remarkably well with the effect of each blast at Pot rock, und -other points where I huve examined for facts. If it had required a pound of powder to a pound ef rock, it would he a clwap process at Pot rock; for it is not easy to conceive how this very troublesome obstruction could have been so far demolished by uny other mode than that used. Tho strength of the current is an effectual opponent to any drilling, even supposing it possible, by successfully anchoring a float, the position could be maintained. It was ably attempted and signally failed. 'l'he few moments at slack water ure not sufficient to find the drilling point, and only sufficient for firing two or three charges, previously arranged for firing, without drilling. In another part of the report of Lieutenant Commanding D. D. Porter, he states to you us follows: "There is a small, thoughvcry danger· ous rock to tho southward of Woolsey's Luth-house. It extends about fifty yards. oqt into the channel, and.is connected witl,1 tl1t: shore-line at low water. '!'here arc three feet of water on it at lugh tides. On the first of the flood, a buoy, let go opposite 'Gibbs's point,' (the southern approach to Hell Gate,) drifted round Hallctt's point, betwcm Pot rock and Way's reef, along the edge of tho eddies, and over the above-mentioned rock, into 'Pot cove.' This lwppcns to a great many vessels, un<l, but for this dangerous obstruction, they would dtift into a safe harbor." I have now the pleasure to report that this rock, so well described by Lieutenant Porter, and so dangerous that I have soon two vessels bilge on it within o. singlo hour, and still another rock, which, though

556

S. Doc.. 3.

not mentioned by him, lies a few yards from it, and nearly as dangerous and destructive, have been entirely destroyed, annihilated &IJ submarine explosions, wit/tout drilling, since the 7th of November, and there are now not less than seven foet water at low tide where they existed, or the usual depth of water on the shelving shore-line. 'l'hese two rocks have been, for all the past time, very destructive to vessels atten~pting to pass the south shore, or i? anchoring near it, when they were covered, which was most of the tune; and any vessel once in the Pot Eddy in a calm was almost certain to hit one or the other of them. Three schooners have bilged on them this autumn. They no longer exist, and, if nothing else had been done to improve Hell Gate, their destruction is worth ten times the amount of money expended by the citizens in this entcrprize. Should masters of vessels now desire to anchor near the bluff to the southward of W oolsey's bath-house, they can do so without the risk of having their keels or rudders knocked out by the current swinging them on those rocks. They can be erased from your next edition of the chart of Hell Gate. Cram's rock, or rather the rock which lies twenty-seven yards from the end of Cram's dock, with a clear channel between it and the dock, as also "Sealey roclc" and "Sltell rock," it is hoped, will be destroyed shortly, as they are always dangerous to vessels when the tide is above the half: The same can be said of the rock off" Negro point," "Baldheaded Billy,"- and" Blackwell's rock." Cram's rock is in area ten by fifteen feet and ten feet high, (or above the bottom,) and covered at high water. A few hundreds of pounds of powder will remove them all, and their destruction will save hundreds of thousands of dollars to the · coasting trade. My experience at Hell Gate during the past four months has shown me, m a strong light, (and I desire particularly to call your attention to it,) the force of the remark in Lieutenant Commanding Porter's report, already referred to, where he says: "If any attempt is mnde to carry out the recommendations that have been frequent1y made relative to clearing away rocks in Hell Gate, I would sugt?,est a close examination of the shol'C-line at low water. Many rocks will be found to exist of a dangerous character, and they have at different times done much damage to vessels of light draught." He might have said, with equal propriety, that they are continually doing damage. M. Maillefert has fired several discharges on the Fryirig-pan rock; but as the work is in progress, I shall not examine it tl.ll he closes for the seasou. May's reef has also been the object of attack, as opportunity offered, and you have before you my careful examination of it in sections of three foet. As both these last-named dangers arc in progress of removal, 1 shall not make fiuther reference to them in this report. We have placed buoys at their extremities, which indicate their positions to navigators, and thC'y are thus able to avoid them. I must remark here that I have observed that, though most naviga" Removed Dec. 4, 1851.

S. Doc. 3.

557

tors knew certain marks for avoiding these hidden dangers of the Gate, very few indeed of the many who pass the Gate have had any clear idea of their exact localities until they witnessed the operations there. Referring again to the able reports of Licutcnnnts Duvis and Porter, I can only add, that it appears strange, indeed, thnt this great national thoroughfare should have-been so long neglected by the country; for I cannot hesitnte to say, that it often happens that there arc not less than two kundrcd sail of vessels and steamers :eassing, or attempting to pass, llell Gate at the same time, and all in tlus narrow channel of less than three miles in length. A small amount of money for labor nnd contingent exi:icnscs, or two officers and ten men, with "carte-blandw" at a powder-null, nrc all that a.re required to clear the navigation from Governor's island to 'l'hrog's neck; and there is no part of the navigable waters of the United Stutes which requires it more. The happy results of the operations in the Gate prove conclusively what was only speculation until attempted; and it is to he hoped that this good work will not stop for wunt of the trifling means to carry it on. Numerous masters of the coasting trade have expressed to me their extreme gratification in the results already obtained; aud, such is their anxiety to have it go on, that they would be willing to be ta:xed for every puss age through the Gate if tho dangers were rmnove<l. The propriety of the work is too appareut, in the vastly growing commerce, by sail and steam, of this grci1t city, to require any argument in its support. In conclusion, I beg leave to state, that to Eben M:eriam, csg., is justly due the credit (an<l it is not a. small nmtter) of interesting (by the aid of the reports in the coast. survey ollice) the wealthy merchants of this city in this matter, nncl procnriug from them the aJvimcos necessary for tho experiment of this attempt at improvement in Hell Gate. I <lecm it also proper to state, that M. Maillefort, the ingenious u.n<l enterprising operator in submarine blasting wit/tout drilling·, exhibits the most ardent desire to serve the publie to the utmost of his ability, preforring the credit of success in his novel mode of operation to 1111y pecuniary benefit; and, notwithstanding ull he has done, ho will be u considerable loser in money, unless the benefits of his enterprise shall succcssfolly appeal for his reimbursement. I· would remark, for your information, that tlw destruction of the two roeks, so troublesome on the south shore, was completed in less than one hour's time, and at an expense of less than one hundred dollars each. I have received every possible assistance from l\fr. l\foriam and M. Maillcfort:, nnd their working force; nnd the free use of two metallic lifo and surf boats from Mr. J oscph Franeis, for ull my examinations under your instructions; and cannot close this report without adverting to .the great advantage, and most decided economy, in tho use of Mr Francis's metallic boats at all tiinas and 'in all places. His boats hnve been in constant use for months, on and around tho rocks ut Hell Gate, and are now in daily use, nnd z1nfuct order, wit/tout tlie ex1Jcnditurc of one cc~t for re11airs. No collision (Ly any exertion of

658

S. Doc. 3.

their crews) with the rocks hurts them, and we have purposely placed them directly over the charges of 125 lbs. of powder, and blown them up with the concussion of the water, without the slighest injury. Respectfolly submitted. Your obedient servant, WASH'N N. BARTLETT. Prof. A. D. BACHE, · Superintendent, Washington.

APPENDIX No. 57.
Report ef tlie Superintendent ef the Coast SurvC?J to tlte Secretary ef the Treasury, upon an examination in reference to. a ligltt-ltouse at Humboldt harbor, Califorriia, made by Lieutenant Commanding James Alden, United States navy, assistant in tlte coast survey.
CoAsT SunvEY OFFICE, November 19, 1851. Sm : I have the honor to report, in conformity with the. law approved · March 3, 1851, and the instructions of the Treasury Department, that the examination of the necessity for a light-house at Humboldt harbor, California, has been made, and the following is the report of Lieut. Com. James Alden, United States navy, assistant in the coast survey, by whom the examination was made. A sketch of the recconnaissance is herewith enclosed. "On the north spit I have marked the place where I think the lighthouse should be located. It is the nearest point to the entrance, and is, therefore, less liable to be obscured by fog; and, with a beacon forther back, the two would form the best range to pass between the north and south bl'cakcrs-not that it should be attempted in the night, unless under the most favorable circumstances. As Humboldt is rather out of the way of vessels passing up and down the coast, I have thought that a light of the second or third class would answer the purposes required at that point, and be sufficiently large for vessels bound in to maintain their position during the night." I concur with Lieut. Com. Alden in the recommendation of a light of the third order, with a beacon light in rear, to give a range. The department will decide ';'hether authorit~. exists to put up the proposed beacon as well as the light-house; and if not, I would respect· folly request that an appropriation for it may be asked. The tower of the light-house should be about twenty feet high, 11;nd the beacon be so placed that it will be still visible when running on the range line. It should be constructed so as to be moved without difficulty in case of a change in the interior. Very respectfolly, yours, &c., A. D. BACHE, Superintendent. Hon. THos. CORWIN, Secretary of tlie Treasury.

S. Doc. 3.
APPENDIX No. 157, bis.

559

Letter of t!te Superintendent o/ tltc Coast Survey to !Ion. Joscplt Grinnell, ef tlte Committee on Commerce, II. ll., communicating a report q/ Lieut. Bartlett, U. S. N., assistant coast survey, on the importance of a liglttltouse at llmnboldt harbor.
COAST SURVEY OFFICE,

Jmma,ry 24, 18151. Sm: I herewith transmit, for the information of the Committee on Commerce, a report in relation to the importnnce of n. light-house at Humboldt harbor, California, by Lieutenant Washington A. Bartlett, United States n'avy, assistaut in the reconnaissance of tbe western coast. Yours, respectfully, A. D. DACHE, ~uperintcndcnt Coast Survey. Hon. JosEPI-I GRINNELL, ef tlte Committee on Commerce.
DEAR

January 24, 18151. Sm: For the information ofthc Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives, on the importance of a light-house at Ilurnboldt ltarbor, State of California, I have to state, that Humboldt harbor, although only discoT!cred in April, 1850, is already a seaport of great commercial unportance in the coasting trade on the western coast. Humboldt harbor is an extensive sheet of water, of good depth, having an easily accessible entrance from the sea, of u.bout one mile in ·wi<lth. 'l'he bar, having three fathoms at low tide, is one nnd a half mile outside of the sand points which form the entrance to the harbor. The sea-shore is low, the sea-side of the hnrbor being narrow snnd points, but slightly elevated above the sea; and hence a light-house is of the first importance to point out the entrance and proper bearing for crossing the bar. Large settlements-Humboldt, Eureka, and Union Town-have already been establisheJ on Humboldt bay, whence a road of forty miles communicates with the rich and extensive gold region of the Trinity and Klumuth rivers. The valley, which is watered by the streams which flow into Humboldt bay, is of exceeding fertility, and densely timbered with valuable forest trees. The steam propellers from San F rnncisco to Oregon touch at Humboldt, and, before a light-house can be built, there will be a semi-weekly line of steamers between San Francisco and Humboldt. 'l'he best position for the town can only be determined by a survey of the entrance. V cry respectfully, your obedient servant, WASHINGTON A. BAR.l'LETT, Licutcna;it U. S. N., Assistant Co<Uit Survey. Prof. A. D. BACHE, Superintendent U. S. Coast Survey.
WASHINGTON,

ALPHABETICAL INDEX.
A.
.Atlams, 11. Topogrnphy of l"loritln, 71. Agassiz, Professor /,, Flori!lu reof, II!, 68, 69; report, on l·'loridn nnd reels, 145.
Alcatraz, fill:.!, f>l!:l. Al<lcn, Limtfotumt.·T.
Account of H mnbohlt
aud 'l'rinidu.J btiys, MW; 'l'riui<fad, Hmu-

Rolle.·, C. P. Triangulation nnd topograpby,
C11po Poar, 157; E1Usto trinugulatio11, ti5 . IJond, l'rofessor W. C. Galvuuic dock, JI; conn1icts cm1st survoy with Nova Scotia

boltlt, 1mrl Sun Diego b1;y~, 5:18; <le1Lth of Do Koven, G:l:~; rnport on st<>unwr ,J offor. son, 5:18; hy!lwgrnphy of western non~t, 87 Alden, 11. 0. J,ottor on tolBgravhic loni,<itud<ls, 41\:.!; t.Jmnks to, I!!}, :iH. Almy, LicUle1umt J. J. Hydrngrnphy of ~oe· l'OCOIUllllllldod, 4u0. tion lII, 5:!, M; lotter on l"i~hiug But.tl'l'Y light, 118::1. c. Appendix to mport·-list of contmil;s, JHJ. Appro71rialions, ()ffiictof, Oil JH'Ol,(l'llRRofwork, 7; Cap1J Cm!, topography of, :lB. for Wt'HLlll'll COllHt lll'll;Cll, '.!:l; for light-hou~os Cape Fe.ar. '1'1·iuugulurfon 111ul topogriipliy, 57, in soctiou I, 4:1; fo1· 1ight-houses, buoys, &o., C11pe lfll1u:odc, Cvlmnbiu l'ivor. Description, light, &c., ril7. litw, 443. Cllpc SntaU, ohsorvutious ut., :l!I. A.ransas l'u.ss, 80; lcttara on lights nt, 507. Cat isliuul. Iluoys, &o., 502; tiiles, 74, 127 Arc/1ivcs iuul Jilirnry, !JU. Army o.tlic,,r.· Oil CllllHt survey, !l; list of, 114. l:o J:i\i. Aatrmunnimt oh~orvutimrn. :Mount l'lt1aHuut, C1iu11tcn'11 station, ohRormtions nt., 47. 32; Capo Smnll, 3:~; Phil1uli·lphin, 44; Cedar IW/JS, 489, 4!14; lights, 4!)4; tidl'S nnd Cn11stn11'a, Rcct.ion III, 47; 1'01tNlll<md1, currents, 4\m. Vh1:i11i1t, r.o; Clu1rlesto11 ltll<l Sttv1Ulllt1h, 6i1; Cluirl~st1JJ1, Largo mnp of 1mrbor, 63, 487; Westcl'll ct>1wt, 85. hJdrngmJlhy, tili, .Azinwtl1s nt. Mount PloMnnt, :l2; CuuAton'~, Cfuuluun harbor, 28; topography, 38. sectiou I I I, 47; 8aVIUlllUh, 6·1; u~t of, l>o- Cfoppcr's /111r, 504, 505. Co1ixt surr"y npprovod by geogrnphionl so. twccu st.1uiuus, hi2 to 44:!. ciot.iHA, 7. D. Col1iml1i1t ri11m·, s:i, 85; OOllllnCl'OO of, 627; ijlliling dirnclions, 5:1:1. Dacltn, l'roji<ss/Jr A.. D. AHt,ronomicnl oliRCl'· Computmg dop11rtmcnt. Dot11ilml 11ccount of v11tio11H ut l\fouut PlmtRuut, Maine, :l:l; OaNi· work tlvtw by otich t1ornput11r, 02. Jl00 11nd Onpo 8mall, :I:!; Cauat.on'a, RocLiou Co111woticut ·riv1w. I lydrogrnphy of mouth, 45. III, 47; dioc1rn~ion of Cut falaud thloH, 74, C1mil ,..,,;f.·. lfopurt, by Ag11ssiz, 153. ]\!7 i Clll'l'l\lltA, j;l(; Ctirc s,>uu 1, ra. IJakcr, /Voi!i/.,, u!lico, }()(), (,°arll'ill, Hf:rnmwr, 88. D11rtlet1, /,i··1lc1!1WI If'. A, J,ottnr on C1wn C11Ht of HUl'V<·Ying by trinngulntion, &o., 7, 8. Huucoc!,, l)lll; roport on (1ulifi1rnin tmust, Cv.r.' d lad;«'· s11rv<1y of, 4(i. 525; (h}hnnbbt river con1u1on·o, fl~i; re~ Cram,Capt. 1'. .1. 'l'riungulr1tiou lu section I, 36, IIIUl'kR Oil nfoArt,hur, 5HI; Holl Garn l'oport, Craou1, /,i1mJ. '1'. A. Uah·11~t.o11 nn1l Arruiaus, ( soo liNt of <lri'ltllt,) 4U, 5;;3 to fJ:itl i H11111J1y<lrogr11pliy, 8 I, 81, 6114, 505, \1:J7. boldt 'lla1 bor light, filJ!J, Cryst11l 1·ircr arul bny, Floriilu, 4!11. Bcllcons nmmumowled, list of, 40(); oxumim1- C1urmt1s. Section I, 41 ; umdo of iudim1ti11g tions for, law, .1'1. o!Jsermtiuus ot; Utl. lJMCtm 1·tt11;f"s, Now York lmrbor, 4:1, 471. C11tts, JI [) 'l'riungulu.tlon 11nd topogrnphy of Domif1>rt. 'l't1 fl·l!fl'll !llly I r.8 ; liy1lrogmphy, IJ!l ; W08torn cm1Rt., 8;); Fort l'oiat, Alont1·az, f>t!:J, H. L. Whiciug' · roport on, 4d::l; lighu, &c., 5:.!:J; J·'u.rralloues, f1~4.
1

aunoy, l!H; longiludos, :II, :m. Roston I /llrlwr, rook in, :n; hmicous, &o., 45:1 ; suiling-mru·ka, &c., 46\1. lluttom uf sett, form of; off Hhorc, section II, 42. Boutelle, l'. 0. Hucommirlsmwti, sect.ion I, :J2; trim1gulntio11, section I, :~6; obsorvu. tions nt: Suvunnah, li4. lluilding for co11st survey r<1comuwnile1l, 92. /J1wgs, uxmnin;1tious for, luw,,14; list ofthoso

485.

IJilUngsgatc slwul, 4rJ4. D. Biloxi 1111 y, tl'iu.ng11latioua uud topogrnphy of,. !Ja1·i1/.<on, G. Astronomical observatious, 76. Block lslttnrl. Hydrogrnphy, 40. \V estom <mast, 8&. 1Jlw11t, R. H udHon rivor triangulation, 44; 1Jea1t, (}. W. Ltt.titmlo obsorvutions, sect.ion I, 3:.!: m:tgnot.io ubsorvutfons, 33; observations Clies1rporrlw tri1111gulutio11, 50. 11t Cuu~tcu's, 47. Boca (irundc, n ..,

ll

INDEX.

H. Declination obRcrvations by Prof. Mitd1cl, 12. DeI\ovcn, Passed Midshipman W., death of, 88; Hassler, .!. .!. S. Tl'inngulntiou CmTituck 533. ,, Hound, 57. Directions for coast survey, 8. Discoveries and new results of coast survey, Httrrison, A. M. Topogrnphy WeRtorn conRt, 8li; Jetter on Point Pi11os, 513; on Point 10; list of', 12G. Lomu, 515; Capo Hrmcock, 517. Distances bctw1ion stations, list of, 162 to 442. Distribution of coaRt survey parties, list ot; Harvard Observator!J, lougitudc of, 480. lldgltts, me11R11rnr1 1m1l verified, :17. 108; of coast survey maps, 98. llcin, S. DiHhursing ogent, 90; disburseDore/tester channel, buoys, &c., 471. ments, 100. Drawinrr department, remarks on, DO; detail Hell Gate. Submarine blusting, 46; report of w;'rk by each member of, 94. on, 553 to 558. (See list of errat11.) Ililf.(ard, .!. E. Mngnctie observations, 34; E. l·'lorid11 tritrnguh1tlo11, 70; charge of com}llJting depurtnwnt, 8!J. Edisto, l1yrlrogrnpl1y an<l topogrn.phy, 6u. Electro-magnetic recording, Prof. Mitchel, 137. Ilotlge, IV. f,, Lcttor to Prof. Bache, directing light-houso exmuinntions, law, 443. Etectrot11ping, remarks on, 91; list of plates copied, 97 ; report on process, met110ds, re- llolrncs's Hulc. Lights, 4liG, 467. JJom Island pllss. Sailing directions, 503. sults, laboratory, &e., 541 to 553. En!!raving department, i·cmnrks on, 90 ; de- Hudson riv11r triangul11tio11, 44. ffwnboldt ltarbor, 84, 87, 520, 528. tails of work hy each member of, 96. Hurnpltrcvs, Capt. A. A. Brovot racommendErrata, list of, Yii. ed, 18. Estimafo for HJ5:!-'G:l. Rection I, 23; sectiom II, III, and IV, 24 ; V to IX, 25; Florida Jlunt, Li1mt. E. B. Charge engraving dopurtment, 8!J, 96. reef, 2G ; W estem coast, 26. 1lyilraulic printing pr1iss, 02. lly1Jr1wraplt!J in suction I, 39; section II, 45; section llJ, u3; BHetion IV, u8; section Parrolloncs, 524. V, H6; suction VI, Florirla, 71, 72; section Parley, .J. Secondary triangulation, section VIII, 77; section IX, 80; 'Ves tern coast, III, 50. }'lorirla. Reef, 12; approprin.tion for, urg1ir1, 87. 22; estimate for 185~'53, 26; hurbors, reef, llydrograpliic. List of notices, l 3; list of ijJrntelws in report, 12; list of pu.rties, 108; and tides, GS, fiO; report on topogruphy of, ofliccrs und ves~ela, list ot; llG, 118, 122. Agassiz, 145; lights, &ri., 457; Uc!'lles' roconnaissunce of, 488 to 494; railroad across, I. 403; survey of; 492. Fishing Battery light-hous(I, 481. Instrument-making nnd rcpnir11, 90. J ort Z.'oint, 522, 5~:t Prying-pan slwals, light on, 59, 62.
1

J.

G.

.Jefferson, steamcl', losR of', 88; eorrespondcnee on loss,, &c., 5:13 to 041. Galvanic wav-,, velocity of, 48; report on wnvo .JcnkinB, f,ic11tcn11nt 'l'. A. Ligl1t-houRo mmmtime hy Walkor, 476. Galveston btty, survey of, 78; l1ydrography, inntions, section 11, 44; lfottcrns inlet, 80; lights proposed, 504, 505. l·'ryi11g-1um shouls, Capci Penr l'ivor, nnd GcodfJtic method, practicn\Jle, where tried, 8; dcep-~ua so1mdings, 5!J; ligl1ts, &c., near rernarlrn on, unil clements used, ](i:.l, New York, 47G; report on 8tcamcr Jotfor· Geograpliiwl positions. llcmarlts 011 list, 6, son, 5:~. 14; list of, Hi2 to 442. Jolinson, W. Jtf. 'fopogmphyin section III, 52. Gerdes, F. JI. Rcco1mui11snnce nml triangulation of J<'lorirla, 70, 488; Cedar Keys Jlghtl10use examinution, 73. Gihbcs, Prof. L. R. CJwrleston obeorvations, G4. Gibson, Lt. A. A. Office duties, 90; sketcl1es of geographicnl positions, 94. G'ilbcrt, 8. A. 'l'rinngulntion of lliloxi Bny, 76. Gloucastt:r, MassrwhusettM, :l7. Otack, .!. JJ. 'l'opography l:hutham, 2f'l; CnJle Cod nnrl Chatlmm topography, 38; hcucon mnge surveys, N1iw York harbor, 45, 472; topography of J'atapRC'o, 5I. Gordon, W. W. 'l'idul discusRions, 100. Gr'1JM1well, W. E. Topograpl1y Hection VIII, 76. Gui/ stream. SouudingH, 72 ; AgM11iz 011, 157.

IC
Kendall, Professor E. O. Observations for conHt Sll!'vcy, 44, 45. ]( cy W1;st. Survey of, 72. Kiug, '1'. .Jl. Sun Fruncisco rocks, 531, 532.

L.
Lake l'ontcliartrain. Milncburg harbor, 75. Land Ojficc Hllrllc!JB 7. Latitutl1;, Mount hcusant, 32; Cnpc Small, 33; Causten's, 47 ; Snvuuuuh, G4; "\'/csteni coast, 8G; list of lntitudoa of eta'tious, 16fJ to 44;;!.

INDEX.
Lazo appropriating for light-houses mul organizing Light-house Board, 443, 44(l. Lrty, Captain a. W. Spnciul duty, 100. Librrtl'f/ of co11st survey, !19. Light lwusns, buoys, beacons, &c. Approprintions, soction I, :iO; section II, 4:1; exnm· im1ti01rn, &.c., sect.ion U, 44; st1ct.io11 Ill, 5G; section IV, fi~; section VI, 7:1; Ruction IX, 81 ; Western cuus1:, 84; list or light-house exumiimtiouH 11111!1<1 by coust surv11y, 451 ; lnw <liroctiug exuminutions, 14, 44;1; wlwre nuufo, Ir>; lnw 11ppropri11ting for, 44:1; Light· huus<l Ho1ml, 44G; liRt of light-h01rnus recommmH1()(1, 4GO; list of'light-housc sketcheR in ruport, J :t' · L1mrr-1wus1·:, &o., u:-rn:nsLicntennnt ,J, Al<lm1, 5:l0, 5:18, 558. Licute1mnt .J .·J. Almy, 482. l'rofossor A. D. Bache, 45:l, 4!i3, 464, 4GG,
41!8, 471, 474, 481, 485, 481i, 4!15, 504, 507, G.12, Gl:l, 515, Gl7, 522.

iii
M.

M1<ffett, Ucut. J. N. Rock i11 llost.011 hnrbor·, :n ; hy<lrngmphy of Beiwfort, G8; Chnrles· t<m, N. EdiHt.(l, nml Stwnmmh, (iii, l\7; Cnpo Fear nncl New river, 50; lights, &c., soc· tious l V anti V, 455; of Hmiufort, 485; (lf Cul'e }<'mu·, 486. Magnetic obAorvations. M11i11e stnt.ions, 3:J. :14; C1111ste11'~, section lll, 47; \V ustoro
CllllRt,

85.

Lieute111wt. W. A. llartfott, 519, 526, 55fl. Assist1mt 11.. D. Cutts, 5:1a. J,i1mtu11n11t, 'J'. A. M. Crnven, 505. Mr. A. M. Harrison, 5l:l, f1Hi, f117. W. L. llodg1·, 44:1. Liuut;1·11a11t .J. N. M1tflitt, 45fi, 4R5, 486 Lieutmmnt U. ll. l\foHlalr, 45:!, 4Cl7, 469. J,ieute111111t <J. P. 1'11t!.crson, 49!1, 502. Lieutenant .J. Hodgt·rs, 457, 400, 4!1!1. Li1mt.u111111t S. Swartwout, 455. Liuutm1unt M. \Voo<lhull, 4fi:l, 4G5.
LrsTs-

M1t11dic..tcr, l\foss., :JS. Maps, list of, m1gr1tvnil, IGO; in mgr11vor's hands, Hil; ilistrilrntml nllll sohl, \18. Jtfathiot, 0. Eloctrntypo roport, 541 to 553. ltfcA·rtl1ur, Lim!. Tl'. P., tribute to, H2; pro· cen1li11gs of meet iug, 50!1; sailing dirnctious . Colu111hi11 rivor, fi:lO. Mdliair, f,icut. C. H. Light-honso exumiun· tious BOC'tiou 1, au,. :JI; hytlrogrnphy Nnn· tuclrnt, l\11rnlwgot, :m; off Oay H t·ad, \Vollflo<·t, 40; lettor 011 lights, &c., f&t1tio11 I, 4[>:1; H.ohnes's llolo, 467; HoHton harbor, 460, 471. llfcllturtric. Yinws \Vc1steru couHt, 87. Mctr,orological r11giRter nt st11tions iu Maino,

:ia, :!4; C11ust.!'11's, fiO. Jlfississippi tldifl, 7fi, 77, 78. lllitchcl, l'ro.f. 0. 111. lfoport on eloctro-mng11~tic n·c1mling of N. l'. tlist111w<"s, Jal. llfittlu:ll, ll'illim11. Obslll'Ylltious ut N1wtucket,

a:l.

Army ofli<'.<ll'R on co:i.st s11rv1~y, l (.i. Co11Ht s11rv1·y p11rti11R, distrilrnt.ion of, 108. Co11Ht surv<',V vi·ssels, 115, 118. Contents of u.ppundix, 101. Discovi1ries 1111d dovelopments of oonst survuy, 12ll. J<~rmt.11 iu report, vi. Geoµ;rnphieal pos11ions, Hl2. Light-ho11~1J uxtt111i1111ti1111s by coust aurv<·y,
451.

Light-l1011HCB reCOJlllTIOIHlocl, 460. Ught-h1111so ijlrntchos iu roport, 13. Mnps engrnved, Hill. M11pe 1mgru.vi11g, Hi!. N11v11l m1gimmrs on coast survuy, 121. Nnvnl otll""1rs on coust survey, 115, 118. l'l:1Ws electrotyp1Jd, ll7. Rosult,s of con st RUl'\'llY, 123. Slwtcl1us elli(l'llV<:d, llil. Skctclws uugrnving, 1112. Longfellow, A. IV. To1mgrnphy, Newbury· port, ;l!), Lo11gitu1fos. Ohsnrv11t.ions nud compntntionR, ll; hy i·hrnnometers, moon cnhnhmtlonH, an<l tefogmph, \Vullrnr uml lloutl, :l4; Hull. son, Ohio, 46; H1tr1'11rd Ohsorv11tory, f>O; Clml'ie~t.nn ll.ll<I Snv11nn11h, 4\\; l'nrtsmo11tl1, Vn., 5!i; Nnw Ol'iemJR, 7G; C111nhri1li(<' 1111<1 Hulifax, 4G;J; liHt of luugit.tufoR of .stutlorrn, 16'1. tA· 442; nwtluulR us(J(\ iu obtniniug, 1114; from Gr(J(mwich, lli4; ruport by Wnlker on,
480.'

M11bil1J bay, 75; 11ydrngrnphy, 77; l'nttcrson's ruport on hnoys, bmwuus, &.c., 40ll. llfodc of survuying, Hi3. Moon rrtl111i11atio11s, compututious, 49. Mou11t l'l1·11sa11t, Mn. Azimuths, lntitmlo, 32; longit.uilu, umgrwti<1 observntions, :l~l. Murray, Lieut. l". K. Colnm1mds J efforson wlwu lost, 88; report on loss ot; G:l4; orders s111Tey of, ri:n; rnports on fitness of, 540. Murp/111, 11. C. Orthogr11pl1y of uunws, section II, 4!i. Muslrng~t chunncl, !l!l. Jllus1111it11 inlet, 72, 7:l; H.()(lgors' re11011:s, 41)5, 4!Jti; Prof. B1whe's, 4HG.

N.
Nantuclwt Slw1ds, JO, 30, 40; beneon on, 453. N1w!I t\Oica.· 011 enust surn·y, U; list of, 115, 1 Hl; eugimwrs, J21, 122. Nc1rlltl'ryport. 'l'opogrnphy, 3\l; hytlrogrnphy, 42. Nern l'orl> l1arhor. lloneon rnngfls, Plynu's Knoll, &c., 4:1, 471, 472, 474, 47(i. No-1111m's-lmul ch111111p}, 40. N. Edi.<to. Sniliuµ; ilirPt1tions, 488. Nov1i Scotiri. Survey connexion, 29.

0.
Ol1scrv11tions, pnhlisliing, l'(;Connnrm1utl, 22. O,.cultations. Prof: ]~. 0. Ko11<1:1ll, 44.

Longstreth, M. F., fommln hy, 49.

Oj/ico. Rmumary of work, tion, 89.

2~, 80;

orguniza.

iv

INDEX.
Rodgers, Ucutenant .1. Florida tides, 69; Key West, hydrography; Boca Granile, Musquito inlot, 72; signals for pilots, 73, 497; letter on Floricla lights, 4G7; on Mus· qui to lnlt1t, 4!J5, 49(); Hohoccu shoals, 499. Rockport, Massachusetts, 38. Rush, f,ieutcnant JI, II. Drawing clepartmont 89, 94. '

Ojficers, army, employed on coast survey, 9; list of, 114; navy do., !) ; list of, 115, llR; naval engineers, 121, 122; coast ·Urvey offi· core, whore employed, 108. O.ff-slwrc, hydrography section II, 45; chart, currents, ancl sections, 42, 43. Organization of eoust survey, plun of, 3, 4, 6. Orthography of' namos, section II, 46. Ossipee, Mo., 33.

8.
Sale of mnps urged, 91, 09. Srrlem Harbor. Hydrography, 40. San Di1·go bay, 8:3, 87; description sailing directions, 5:>.8. ' Sandy lloolc, 45. San L"r1111dsco, ~c., 84; topogrnphy, Alcatraz 1''ort Point, Yerhu Buena, Mare Ifilund, 85: 522; HUnken rocks in harbor, ti:IJ, 532, Srmds, Ueutenant R. 1'. Hydrogruphy section III, G4; section VIII, 75, 77. Sa1Jannuh. Ob;~ervutions for latitude, longi· tnt1o, 1mcl nznuuth, G4 ; topography nnd hydrogrupl1y, (i{j, Saxton, J. Chargo of instrument-making 89. Scientific. See reports. ' Scrcw-pifo signals, 70. Sea-!torsc reef; 7:1. Sections. Summary o'f work in snction I, 18; II, 19: llf, J!); IV to XI, 20. Work done in tho yeur, section I, 27; II, 42; III, 47; IV, 55; V. 62; VI, 67; VIII, 74; IX, 78; X aml XI, 81. Limits of sections, 16, 17, 1()2. ~ci!1 1 J. Topography of Chesapouke, 51. Slt1p channel, Floiida reef, 154. Ship island. Buoys, 502. · ::;~wvelful s!tonls. Light-bout, 464, 455. S1gm1/~ on Flo.ricla reef, 70, 71 ; Hodgors' pilot s1gnuls, 7:3, 497. Skctdiis, prnpnratinu of, !)] ; list of'. in: report, 106; list of, cmgravod, 161; 'ongrav· lllg, 162. . Snow, C. n. Librarian, &c., 99. 8010-and-pigs light, 453. Stations, prciserv11tion of, Toxus, 79; how marked, 16G; list of thoir llltituclos, longi· tutlos, azitnuths, nncl distnnc!ls,, ](i~ to 442. Stati.~tics of worlc, 10; of coast survey results 123 to 12r), ' Sti:arner. Jellerson, loss of, 17, 88, 533 to 541; Corwm, 88. Stevens, Major [. l ARBiRtant in ch111·go of of· lice, 6, 89; inRpectinn suction I, 20; remarks on. McArthur, 51 l. Suwannee rincr an.I buy, 4H!l. Swartwout, Ue11tenant 8., !H; No-man's-land cbunnel, 40; olf-shoro soundings, 41; Cox's ledge, 46; lights, &c., in section I, 455.

P.
Pamplico sound, 57. Parties of coast survey. distribution of, 108. Pass Christian, 75; hydrogruphy, 77. Patapsco. Topography, 51. Patterson, Lieu~. C. P. Gulf coo.st lights, &c., 75; Mohilo beacons and buoys, 4!J9; Cat and Ship islanclR do. buoys, 502. Pendleton, Prof Off-shore unglos, 45 · Com· putations, 49, JOO. ' Plan of coast survey organization, 3, 4, 6, 8; law directing it, 9. Pluisonton, S. Light-houses appropriated for, 449. Point Conception, 83, 85; light, 512; latitudo and longitudo, 512. Point Loma. Description, light, 515. Point Pinos light, description, 513. Pond Is/rind, Me., light, 4G:l. Portsmouth. Hydrogrnphy, 42. Pourtalcs, L. P. Longitude Portsmouth, Va. 56 ; signals and triangulation Florida reef. 70. Powell, II., aids ,J elfcrRon's crew, 88. Po wow bill, height of, 37. Prince, Major fl. Rcconnaissanoo section III 50; Pamplico, 57. ' Printing department. Printing done, 98. Progress. Appropriations influence, 7; now equalH 3-8ths of the whole work, 8. PulJlisliing, plun of, 5; observations, 22; maps 98. '

n.
Ribecca s!toals, 69, 73, 7 4; Jiuht or beacon, 498. .. Reconnaissance. Section I, Boutelle Priuco 31; sec~ion III, 50; section IV, 56'· sectio~

' 506. Rrfractio11, laternl, 70. RF.rouTs, (scientific)Prof'. Duche on Cat IRland tides, 127 to 136. Prof: Ba~IJO on current charts, 136, 137. Prof. M1tchol. Eleetro-magnctic recording, rn7 r,o 145. Prof. Agassiz on J<'loridu roofs, 145 to lG'l. Computing department. LiHi of goographicnl positions, Hi:.! to 442. S. C. Walker on galvanic wuvo time 476 to 479. , S. C. W~tlker on lougiturlos, 480, 481. G. Mathwt on electrotyping, 541 to 553 Results of' coast survey, tu.blo of, 123 to

VI,69.

R.ed Fislt Bar,

T. TP;legraphic long!turlos, 35.
Ttdes. Observntions, l 1 ; section I 29, 41 · Cut islimd tidus, 7 4; lliRCUHRi:m or,' by Proi. B1ic:lm, 1:>.7; Mr. Schott, 94; tid11l rocluctions 99; discussiom, JOO; Gulvcstvu tides, 79. '

iis.

INDEX,
Section I, 37; section III, 51, 62; sf.'ct.ion IV, 58; Roction V, 66; section VI, 71; section VIII, 76; sootion IX, 80; western coust, 86; topogruphicul desorip· tion of Floridn, Agnssiz, 147 . . Tottr,n, Lieutenant James. Ji'loridn, 71. Transits. Prof. Kendnll, 44. Transportalio11 of navy officers estimntlld for,

v

Topography.

Wainwright, S. A. Topogrnphy of Chess· penko, fi2; S11vnn1111h rh·cr, 66. Walker, S. C. Longiturlos, 34 ; observntions, 46,; tulcgrnphio, 4H, 4!); in snction IV, 5fi; lotter on tol!'grnphic, 4G2; roport on galvanic wuvo timo, 476; on longitudes, 480. Wampler, J. 111. Gnlvoston topogruphy, 70.
Wdljl()(Jt. 'l'opogrnphy, 3H; chuugos, 40. Western coast. Pinn of survoy, ronsons, 4, 5; csthnut;o for 1852-'53, 26; opomtions on, 81, 83; lights, &c., on, 4(i8. Wliitin!(, L. 'J'opogrnphy Cnpo Ann, :17 ; Sw1cly liook rosnrvuy, 45; llunufurt, 58, 48:J. 11'/dting, Licrttenm1t 1i~ Hydrogrnphiu uxuminutions in oftico, l)!), Willitims, J. S. 'l'riungulution Galveston buy, 7!). Wisc, G. D. 'l'opogrnphy section Ill, 52; l~disto, (i[i, Witltlacood1cr. bay, 4!)1. Woodlmll, Licutmant 111. Ch11tl1111n 1111rbor1 ·

7'rm1holm, G. TV. Lottor on Charleston harbor clrnrt, 487. Triangulation. Section I, 32, 36; section II, 44; section Ill, GO, 51 ; snctlon IV, 57; section V, G'I, (i5; suction VJ, 70; soction VIII, 76; section IX, 79; Wostom eonst, 85; progress of triungulution, 17; method

2a.

.

u:

n.

of, ](i:J. Trinirlrul bay, 87, fi21, 528. Trowbridg", Licutmwnt 11'. P. Triangulation sootion I, 32 ; diocussions, 100.

v.
Velocity of gnlvitnic wnvo, 48, 476.

1"erification. 81,ctions II nnd III, 4. Vessels of const surv1iy, 1 Hi, 118.

28, 41; Portsmouth, Nowburyport, 42; t.iclul
obsorvutions s11etio11 I, 41; light~houso uxaminnt.ious, 44 ; oll'shoro soundings, 45 ; mouth .of Conuoctieut tivor, 4il ; 8hovclful shoals light-bout, 46il; lights, &c., noar Now York, 475.

w.
Wacassassa bay, 400. Warl.,worl/1, A. S. 'frinngulntion, section IV,
58.

Y.
Hydrogrnphy

Wainrorigl1t, Licutc11a11t R. section lV, f>tl.

Yulcc, Prof. Computations, 49.

Errata in the list of Geographical positions, discovered after the report · was printed. .

Non.-Discrepancies 0.01, arising from increasing: the last figure by a unit, when the figure in the third place of decimals was 5, while in similar cases the 5 was dropped, are not noLiced in this list. ·

or

,,

II

,,
37 .34. 07 .20. J l .36. 53.07. JI.!18. 58.50.
()4,!)Q.--

P. 168, station·Quaker, P. 169, " Pocasset,

P. ,,

"

"

P. P. P. P. P. P. P.

218, 304, 324, 372, 374, 375, 378,

" " "

" "
"

"

Mt. lntlependence, Maulden's Mt., Smith's Pt. Light, Pt. Lookout, Wolftrap, C. Henlopen, South Birch,

column longitude, read " latitude, " " longitude, longitude, " latitude, " longitude, " " " longitude, longitude, " " " longitu<Je, longitude, " "

"

" " " "

57 .39. for 07 .23 " 11.33 " 53.04 " 12.0l " 58.30 " 04.86 " 24.32'" 44.55 " 10.51 "

24.22. 45.55. 08.51.

LIST OF EHRATA.
8 from hottom, for rcduc(l(J rc11il rocorueu. 32 from top, for VI reuil VJI. 4 from top, for Solmttis renil l\Iount Inrlepoudoncc. 11 from bottom, for Livorpool 1·c1ul Greenwich. JO from bottom, for 39. !)() ro11d 2!), !)(J, 21 from top, for M1.1Hon rond N11son. Pugo !12, lino lf> from bottom, for Clmrles N. Schott rend Charlos A. Rchott. I>ngo 378, lino Longituilu of South llirch, for 7&0 10' 08". lH ro1ul 7&0 10' 10". fil. Pugos fiii:l to fifiR. 'J'ho ilopth on Pot Roek wns found, in tho subsoquent Slll'l't·y by Mu.ior Frnzer, to bu 18 foet, nnd, nftor uuditiouul blusting, tltn.ll' 1ioi11ts of 19 fout 3 indws rcmuinctl, Dccmulwr, .1852. Pu go Pugo Pnge Pngo Pngo Pngo ] 1, lino 17, lino 33, line 34, lino 34, lin1J 36, lino

